start question
Are there " TecTiles " for iPhones ?
No and no . The TecTiles rely on NFC ( Near Field Communications ) to work . No iOS device yet shipped has NFC , and it 's not particularly likely that any iOS device will come with NFC1 . It would be possible to make an iPhone/iPad case that had NFC built-in , but , as iOS has no NFC drivers , you 'd have to use a specialized app to use the hardware , and apps have limited ability to perform non-in-app actions for the user ( i.e. , if it were to compose a text or tweet for you , you 'd still have to tap a send button for it to go , which kind of obviates the utility of tapping your device to the tile ) . 1 If you believe the rumors and rumor-analysis , Apple 's planning on using Bluetooth 4.0 's low-power mode to do what Google 's trying to do with NFC .
<URL> Shareware The ' Pro ' and ' DJ ' versions of this program integrate very tightly with iTunes and an iTunes managed library if you have one . It can play DRM-protected purchased songs and can synchronize playlists , playlist folders , metadata , sound check adjustments and album art with iTunes . It can also match songs with similiar BPM for smooth transitions and can easily handle thousand-song playlists . The program is definitely designed for a production environment , rather than a live one . It can not do automatic BPM calculation , but has a little feature where you can ' tap ' out the BPM to a song with your mouse/keyboard . And of course you can sort your library or playlist by BPM , or a number of other metrics . I 'm a huge fan of Megaseg , but it suffers from small little usability quirks ( the program 's insistence on sorting songs with each artist in alphabetical order for instance ) . <URL> FOSS This program is gaining a lot of popularity lately . It features some iTunes integration but is quite usable without iTunes and has several integrated organizational devices to make custom playlists or bundles of related songs . This program is more oriented for a live environment . It has the ability to connect to several USB MIDI controllers and turntables , has automatic BPM analysis , a more robust loop control , and the ability to handle multiple simultaneous sample playback . Mixxx has the ability to sort songs by BPM or other metrics of your choosing , though I have found it easier to use other programs to manage music libraries . Where AutoDJ and automatic crossfading are integral components of Megaseg , feel like more of an extra feature for Mixxx .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
<URL> Touchpose is a very simple Cydia tweak that will show finger positions on screen . Requirements : firmware ( > = 4.0 ) , mobilesubstrate , libactivator , preferenceloader
I believe you are looking for <URL> . It has WebDav access ( among other things ) ( <URL> ) .
There are a couple of gotchas I 'm aware of . If you buy apps on both iTunes accounts , they all get listed together when updates become available , not just the ones on the account you 're currently signed into . So if you click ' download all free updates ' iTunes will only download the updates for the account which is signed in . This can be confusing because you 've told it to download all free updates and it does n't tell you why it has n't downloaded the others . If you have an Apple TV and you want to use Home Sharing , then you can only share the content for one account at a time .
Try installing the <URL> from this <URL> . This will install the musical notes you need ( free ) . You can then test it out on this <URL> . Hope this helps .
If you 're just looking for a quick signal strength number , option-click on the AirPort icon in the menu bar . Under the connected network you will see several pieces of information : RSSI is your signal strengh in dB . Higher ( closer to 0 ) is better . If you 're looking for noise or the signal strength for multiple access points , I suggest checking out <URL> : <URL>
Enabling TRIM on third party SSDs You can enable TRIM on third party SSDs by using a tool called <URL> which " works by patching a kernel extension , and also includes some SMART data to check the health of the SSD drive " . [ <URL> ] I do n't know if buying similar drive will get you TRIM to be auto-enabled in Lion . User <URL> reports that he has bought an OEM-SSD which auto-enabled TRIM in Lion after installation . [ <URL> ] According to user <URL> , Apple usually uses custom firmware . [ <URL> ] Is enabling TRIM necessary ? User <URL> has covered this as a part of his <URL> to a post " Optimize MacBook Pro for internal SSD+HDD drives " .
Check <URL> , it is still in beta and they have adding full-screen support in Lion but not others you mentioned . And you can use <URL> too . <URL> is also working on some of the Lion refinements ( the ones that are included have some rough edges ) - it 's certainly not stable since it 's being fixed as the days go by , but as an open-source program , you can see the bugs/defects and know when the features you care are shipped or have issues .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
As long as you have n't excluded something manually from the backup it will backup everything , except some cache and log files . I do also have custom programs in , , ... and everything still worked after restoring the system from my Time Machine backup . There is a good collection of <URL> on the web you may like to consult .
Push notifications will mean charges are incurred if you ever pay for data . Clearly , most push notifications are very small transmissions , but they almost always use data connection instead of WiFi so if you had thousands of pushes , it might be the bit of data that exceeds your quota and racks up more cost . Also when roaming , all data might be metered a la carte , so you would in essence pay for each notification you received while roaming . As outlined in the comment by Matthieu . Push notifications are data . If you are " roaming " ( ie . outside the country where you have your service contract with your mobile service provider ) you will incur charges . Having said that there are plans which allow for free data roaming globally . Such as the T-Mobile plans available in the US . This has something to do with the fact that T-Mobile is Deutsche Telecom . On such a plan there will be no charges .
Contact Apple with the information below . Apple officially says you can transfer it ( to another person along with the phone or to another device within 30 days for the same owner ) . The customer can also get a full refund if it 's canceled before 30 days from the purchase date and a pro-rated refund , less cancellation fees , if it 's canceled after 30 days from the purchase date . From <URL> : Is the AppleCare Protection Plan or AppleCare + transferable ? Yes . If you choose to sell or give away your Apple product , you can also transfer the ownership of the AppleCare Protection Plan or AppleCare + . Please see the <URL> for complete details . For transfer , the <URL> states : 10 . Transfer of Plan ( i ) With Transfer of Covered Equipment to New Owner . Subject to the restrictions set forth below , you may make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your rights under the Plan to another party , provided that : ( a ) the transfer includes the original Proof of Purchase , the Plan 's Confirmation and all of the Plan 's packaging material , including printed materials and these Terms and Conditions ; ( b ) you notify Apple of the transfer by sending , faxing or e-mailing notice of transfer to Apple Inc. , ATTN : Agreement Administration , MS : 217-AC , 2511 Laguna Blvd , Elk Grove , CA 95758 , U.S. , fax number 916 -405 -3655 or agmts_transfer@apple.com, respectively , and ( c ) the party receiving the Plan accepts the Terms and Conditions of the Plan . When notifying Apple of the transfer of the Plan , you must provide the Plan Agreement Number , the serial numbers of the Covered Equipment being transferred , and the name , address , telephone number and email address of the new owner . ( ii ) With Transfer From Original Covered Equipment to New Covered Equipment . You may make a one time , permanent transfer of the coverage under the Plan to a new Apple product that is owned and purchased by you within thirty ( 30 ) days of the Covered Equipment purchase . The new product must be eligible for coverage under the Plan and at the time of transfer both products must be covered under the manufacturer 's one ( 1 ) year limited warranty . Apple will issue a Plan Confirmation for the new product , which will then become the Covered Equipment . When notifying Apple of the transfer , you must provide the Plan Agreement Number , the serial numbers and Proof of Purchase of the products being transferred by sending or faxing , where available , notice of transfer to Apple as set forth in the section immediately above . For cancellation and refunds , the <URL> states : 9 . Cancellation You may cancel this Plan at any time for any reason . If you decide to cancel either call Apple at the telephone number below , or send or fax written notice with your Plan Agreement Number to AppleCare Administration , P.O. Box 149125 , Austin , TX 78714 - 9125 , U.S. ( fax number 916-405-3973 ) . A copy of the Plan 's original proof of purchase must accompany your notice . Unless local law provides otherwise , if you cancel within thirty ( 30 ) days of your Plan 's purchase , or receipt of these Terms and Conditions , whichever occurs later , you will receive a full refund less the value of any service provided under the Plan . If you cancel more than thirty ( 30 ) days after your receipt of this Plan , you will receive a pro rata refund of the original purchase price , based on the percentage of unexpired Coverage Period from the Plan 's date of purchase , less ( a ) a cancellation fee of twenty - five ( $ 25 ) dollars or ten percent ( 10 % ) of the pro-rata amount , whichever is less , and ( b ) the value of any service provided to you under the Plan . Unless applicable local law provides otherwise , Apple may cancel this Plan for fraud or material misrepresentation . Unless applicable local law provides otherwise , Apple may also cancel this plan if service parts for the Covered Equipment become unavailable , upon thirty ( 30 ) days ' prior written notice . If Apple cancels this Plan for the unavailability of service parts , you will receive a pro-rata refund for the Plan 's unexpired term . Also see <URL> .
Yes . Excluding any major issues , the GM release for developers is the same as the first release to the public . Future point releases can be updated over-the-air rather than through a manual image install .
There are plug-ins available for Apple Mail . Some are plug-ins , some are AppleScripts . You could easily accomplish this via AppleScript . For example , here 's a <URL> , although the author of those scripts notes that they have n't been updated recently and might not work with more current versions of OS X. You 'll have to try it and see . Since it 's an AppleScript , if you 're willing to get your hands dirty , you can edit it to better meet your needs . Another option is <URL> , which includes delayed send as well as several other related items .
I did searches for Tolstoy , Pushkin , and Dostoyevski and found at least one Russian language book under each one . Are these not there for you ?
I have an iPhone 4S . Like you , I originally thought that I ought to get a protective case for my iPhone . I tried several cases , but none of them were satisfactory ( too bulky , too cumbersome to open to get to the phone , too ugly ) . I now have no case for the phone , and I keep it in my trouser pocket all the time . Instead of getting a case for the phone , though , I got a key case for my keys ( which I keep in the same pocket ) to prevent them scratching the glass ! That solution has worked well - the iPhone is now over a year old but looks as good as new , and I have n't added any size or weight to it .
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
end question
start question
Is there an app that quickly makes an image of selected text ?
You can use Automator . Open Automator . Choose Application from the templates . Add a Ask for Text action . Tick ' Require an Answer ' Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Open the actions options options . Tick ' Show this action when workflow runs ' Add a Lopp Action . Control + click on the Loop Actions Title bar and select ' ignore input ' From the Loop Actions 's drop down menus , select ' Ask to Continue ' and Use the ' current results as input ' Save and run . You will then be prompted to enter your text . Then after you ok that you will be prompted to Choose you font . Use the font size to determine the image size . example 64 in Helvetica Bold gives me about 46x77 The same font but at size 300 gives me 177x360 . In each case I am only using 1 character . If you want to do it from ' Selection ' Open Automator . Choose Services from the templates . Set the ' Sevices Receives input ' to : rich text * and in * any application Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Set the Text Style drop down menu to : ' Use Style of Rich Text input ' . Optionally you can add a ' Reveal in Finder ' Action The Size is set by what ever the original fonts are . To use the Service . You can select some text , and control click to get a contextual menu . Listed is the services sub menu . Under this you should find your new service that will run on the selected text .
This seems like it would be a good solution for you . No installation required , it should run on almost any desktop . <URL> This product also may meet your needs . <URL>
No , you ca n't do this unless the website allows it . The uploaded file will use the name of the file that you uploaded , and on iOS this is always . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
If you use Disk Utility to image an HFS filesystem into one dmg file , the resulting file is portable no matter what filesystem you store it on . Where things get complicated is incremental backups . If you want incremental backups and a DIY solution , choose a sparse disk image and use rsync to update the band files that you store on NTFS , just like Time Machine does to Time Capsule . If you really just want a painless backup solution , you might select a professional tool set such as ( in alphabetical order ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Since I listed some of the more popular incremental backup software packages ( some are hosted , some you can self host ) , the one that seems to fit your requirement the best is the free CrashPlan software that would be self hosted and need a computer connected to the NTFS drive to host the Mac data as a backup destination .
You can alternatively try to insert your signature in a blank pdf document , crop to take only your signature and then save the document as a PNG file . FYI , it 's seems that the signature is stored in a . plist file . The file name is " com.apple.Preview.signatures.plist " and it 's in folder : / Users/YourAccount/Library / Containers/com . apple.Preview / Data/Library/Preferences / Hope this helps !
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
Check out " Brisk " , MAS link and screenshots etc here : <URL> , Youtube screencast demo here : <URL>
MS Entourage <URL> , I do n't know if its replacement ( MS Outlook ) still does . Either way , you 'd need MS Office to use it , which probably is n't what you want . <URL> also suggests a way to achieve something similar to it with Mail.app and Safari , but I have n't tried it to see how well it works .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
<URL> ! It 's a very simple app , costs just $ 9 <URL> as of this writing . We covered this app on the Ask Different Podcast , <URL> . <URL> to apply a satisfactory EQ output to all system audio , as he 's begun to use Spotify more often than iTunes , and Spotify does not have an EQ function built in . Thus , we have BOOM ! A variety of uses ( gain/leveling , EQing , etc. ) , with a simple interface , and a low cost .
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
The restrictions only apply to the format . From the iBooks Author Publishing and Distribution FAQ of 2/7/12 : Are there any restrictions on the distribution of works produced with iBooks Author ? If a fee is charged for the work and it is in the . ibooks format , the work may only be sold through the iBookstore . If the work is in a different format , such as PDF or ePub , this restriction does not apply . Here 's the relevant part of the updated license agreement regarding the distribution of work : ( i ) if the work is provided for free [ ... ] , you may distribute it by any means ; ( ii ) if the work is provided for a fee [ ... ] and included files in the format [ ... ] , the work may only be distributed through Apple , [ ... ] , however , that this restriction will not apply to the content of the work when distributed in a form that does not include files in the format [ ... ] . You retain all your rights in the content of your works , and you may distribute such content by any means when it does not include files in the format [ ... ] .
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
Google Chrome comes with its own instance of Flash that runs only when it needs it and only within the scope of Chrome . I have uninstalled Flash from all my Macs and simply turn to Chrome when I really need Flash for something .
I do n't think <URL> or their <URL> are there yet with general multivariate linear regression but their email support is great and you might ask them which product of theirs might get that first . These do not run offline - so you may have to wait for the whole enchilada to arrive . In the mean time , you will need to use something like <URL> to connect back to a computer that can actually run the numbers for you . This is a step better than just running screens as it lets you do input natively on iOS and shuttles forth and back the data to the main engine running remotely . As you commented , you could get a matrix manipulation tool - both the <URL> and a few other apps like matrix calculator plus will invert matrices for you .
Tap on the status bar will bring you to the top of the message . A quick way to get to the call button .
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
end question
start question
How do I identify a MacBook Pro from its serial number ?
You can enter the serial number in Apple 's <URL> ( if you do n't remember the URL , there 's a link to it in the Self Service section of Apple 's main <URL> . It 'll tell you the model name , as well as the warranty status .
Here 's one example of someone running two 27 " displays at 2560x1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort plus an HDMI display at 1920x1200 : <URL> The Thunderbolt ports officially support up to 2560x1600 so that resolution should n't be any problem either : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors <URL> To get up to that resolution , you 're limited to either Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort or Dual-Link DVI via an adapter - single link DVI and VGA adapters wo n't go that high . For the HDMI port , I have n't seen any specific maximum resolution . This person got up to 2048x1280 : <URL> Generally , external monitors work fine in Windows . I see no reason why it would be any different on the Retina model or on Windows 8 specifically .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
All Macs cease charging and let you know this by changing the " orange " LED in the charging cable to " green " when the battery is topped off and you are merely running the Mac - not charging it . The question you ask would be more precisely worded - what harm is it in keeping the battery constantly and always topped off to full ? Your early 2011 13 " MacBook Pro has a lithium ion battery . Luckily , lithium ion batteries have an internal circuit to prevent the battery from being charged over 100 % . There is a very slight chance that something can go wrong with the charging mechanism in the laptop , which would cause the battery to overcharge , but I would n't be concerned with that . Years back , laptop batteries were made from nickel-cadmium or nickel metal hydride . It was recommended that these batteries were regularly fully discharged then fully charged so they 'd continue to hold a full charge , though even following these practices they would eventually lose capacity . Apple <URL> that you fully discharge your battery monthly , and never store your laptop with a charge below 50 % for an extended period of time . In short , it 's perfectly acceptable to leave your laptop plugged in while it 's in use but let it fully discharge once a month for optimal battery health .
<URL> to manually create the Recovery HD partition , but it seems complicated for a novice user . If you do n't feel sure about your self into doing this , then I suggest you to re-install Lion .
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
Go to settings > phone First line is My Number
Your MacBook Pro HDMI port is output only . So no , you can not use it as input for your recording . Your alternatives are USB 3 or Thunderbolt .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
If you are talking about a Thunderbolt equipped 15-inch MacBook Pro then yes according to this : <URL> Interestingly you can also drive two from a 13-inch MacBook Pro , it will disable the built in display .
Go to an Apple store ( or ask a friend with tech skills ) to remove the hard drive from the MacBook . Most likely the hard drive will be unharmed and putting it into an external USB case will let you access it ( not necesarily directly via the iPad but through some other way , e.g. iCloud or USB stick or something ) . Btw , quite likely the MacBook is not beyond repair also . Ask an Apple tech .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
I found one way . I am an iOS developer , and I once used this iPad for development . Xcode has an Organizer window , which keeps tracks of the devices I used for development . The iPad appears on the list , and it also displays the serial number . This of course only works if you have developed with the device using Xcode . I wonder if there is a more standard way to get the serial number .
As with any computer , using a higher-wattage power adapter is fine , but using a lower-wattage one might not let it run at full efficiency and may be unhealthy for the battery in the long term . ( And of course it wo n't charge as fast . ) There are a number of answers to this same question , but for MagSafe chargers , <URL> . Kuba Ober 's answer goes into quite a bit of detail about it , though I ca n't personally vouch for its accuracy .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
It 's likely that you are running something in the background ( such as Skype ) which is triggering your dedicated graphics card , despite it not actually doing anything graphically intensive . This is a known issue in Apple 's graphics card switching technology . Download and run <URL> and see if I 'm right . If so , close the problematic program or use gfxCardStatus to manually switch to the much lower-powered integrated chip . You should get longer battery life after that ; I have n't directly measured it but I know I get at least 30 minutes to an hour of extra life . And of course it also depends on what you 're doing with your computer , what background programs are running , the brightness of your screen , etc. .
There are several other options your can try . First try rebooting/powering up and after your hear the chime press and hold the option/alt key . This will take you to the UEFI boot loader where you will be presented with all the boot options OS X recognizes . If you can , select the hard drive that contains your OS X installation . Should the boot loader not launch or launch and then present you with no options reboot and then try pressing and holding command + r after the chime . This will either boot off of your recovery partition or attempt to boot your system from internet recovery . If it 's the latter it will take some time so be patient . Once you are loaded into recovery mode launch disk utility from the tools dropdown . Select the first entry for your hard drive in the side bar and then click " Repair Disk " . This will attempt to repair any errors with your partition map . Reboot and then hopefully all will now be functioning correctly .
Ctrl-T is standard hotkey for file selection -- <URL> . As for switch/add/substract , just type shift-8 for * , shift - = for + and - for minus . All this works in MC out of the box .
Do not stick anything else in the slot . Really . The inject / eject mechanism is keyed for a full sized disc and you do n't want to wedge it in the wrong direction or retract that delicate part any further by fishing around inside the narrow slot . There is no eject button so you will need either luck or finesse and skill to get the CD out . Power down the Mac and hold it firmly with the Apple logo facing you at chest height with the CD slot pointing to your lap . Gently rock and shake it to see if the CD is loose and encourage it to peek out the felt skirt that is inside the unibody enclosure . Your Mac when powered off is very strong and you gently start it down and then quite forcefully yank it back up vertically . One or two shakes is all it takes to get the mini CD poking out just a bit . At that point , the felt will hold it and you can return the Mac to a level table and use tweezers or needle nose pliers or nimble fingers to remove the CD . If you ca n't get it out - take it in for service . Unless you work on these regularly , you do n't know which model superdrive is in your Mac and how hard , deep , gentle you can be with tools to help dislodge the CD . Also , if you are comfortable popping the back off your Mac - you could use iFixit to get to the drive itself and the CD will likely fall out once you have that component out of the Mac and away from the felt skirt . Again , have a good firm grip - if you are so nervous that your palms are sweaty , that 's your signal to see about getting a technician to help or waiting a bit to convince yourself you can shake it loose . These computers are made to endure UPS and FedEx shipping , packing in luggage in a bumpy car and your shaking should be on that level of violence and no more . If it 's lodged behind the eject mechanism , you 'll need someone to get inside and clear things in most cases .
end question
start question
In Numbers , how can I determine the default formatting of cells in rows that have just been added to a sheet ?
I found the following <URL> at Apple that has the answer to my own question : The default table styles are always taken from the table style list that you choose from the panel on the bottom-left corner of the screen . The solution to my problem is to use the Create New Table Style command under the Format menu and adding a brand new table style . As long as this new style remains selected , it is the one that the table will keep as a whole . I have tried this at home and it works as advertised .
You did n't mention which version of Numbers you were using . Here are general directions to create a custom cell format in both <URL> and <URL> . In Numbers ' 09 , once in the Custom Number Format dialog , drag a few integer elements into the format box . Pull the menu down for each , and choose Hide separator . On the appropriate groups , change the number of digits to two . If you 're not mixing with USD and prefer India 's conventions , a much simpler approach is in the <URL> . Choose India from the Region menu , and any cells set to Currency format will not only have the correct symbol , but the correct groupings . Of course , then if you want USD formatted correctly , you 'd need a custom format for that - so use whichever region is most appropriate to the bulk of your content .
The answer was basically in my original question . Spotlight is indeed the sole arbiter of the Date Added column . And the Trash , not being a real folder , is not Spotlight indexed . If you move a file with a Date Added into the Trash , it keeps the Date Added from its original folder . If you then put it back , its Date Added ( to the original folder ) is updated to the present . It would probably take a significant engineering effort to make this work for the Trash , so I 'm not expecting to see this fixed before Mountain Lion , if ever .
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
There 's no default application to handle . rar file on Mac OS X . You might want to try <URL> . It can open many format besides rar files . Then once you installed it , open its preferences and select all the file format you want him to manage .
Your statements are all true . Though the geotagging on the first iPhone was n't really precise since there was no built-in GPS : it used the GSM triangulation to localize the phone ( <URL> ) .
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
Hold & #x 2318 ; and drag it out of the menu . If date and weekday are shown , they will also be removed . Alternatively , you can disable and customize the clock in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Date &amp; Time & #x 2192 ; Clock .
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
It 's a shelf for a lot of subscriptions . Many more than the standard folder limits . As conceptually you could see it as a folder , but in fact its a newsstand . I tried to find some documentation on the limit for newsstand and could n't find anything but I 've seen some of my clients have a LOT of subscriptions on their shelves .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
How to get serial numbers for displays : Go to . Open this with TextWrangler or a similar utility . Look for a key with an integer value that is n't 0 . With any luck , this should be the s/n of your display . If you have n't used this display for a while , the records of it may be gone . Also , it appears that this is n't guaranteed . Double-check if possible . How to get the serial numbers for iPods : Open . Look under the Devices dictionary . Any iPod you 've connected will have all its info there , including the s/n ( under ) . Good luck .
You can define a preset from the print dialog . First change the settings for what you want , and then choose the Presets > Save As ... menu . If you leave your preset selected , it will be selected the next time also , so you will never have to change it .
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
iTunes does n't offer this functionality natively : <URL> always comes in handy in these situations . In this case , however , there 's no easy solution , because there is no script that does that . You would need a combination of three scripts , which should work and should be fairly easy as soon as you have installed all three of them : Get <URL> and run it on the tracks you would like to number . This will add track numbers to the beginning of the track name . Run <URL> on the tracks , which will set the track tags based on the number you 've added in step 1 . Use <URL> to remove the track numbers added to the name . As far as I can tell this is the easiest way to accomplish that . Of course you could also write your own AppleScript which does it in one step . And do n't forget to create a backup , just in case .
Nope , the latest versions of the AppleTV have 8GB of storage however the device does n't allow the user to view or modify anything about the status storage ( at least in a stock state ) . During the introduction of the first all black AppleTV Steve Jobs said , People do n't want to think about managing storage , they just want to watch movies and TV shows .
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
You would need to change sounds in : There are : and ( self explanatory ) . I recomend to make backup of those files before swap .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
end question
start question
How do I add a featured iTunes Radio station to my stations on iOS ?
According an <URL> : You can add a featured station to My Stations by tapping the Info ( i ) button , then tapping the Plus ( + ) button to the right of " Add to My Stations . "
The Safari Extension <URL> allows you to change the search engine used by the Safari search bar/unibar , without any hack-ish stuff such as changing the hosts file .
Right click on the word and choose Spelling and Grammar from the list . Then select Show Spelling and Grammar . You 'll see the option to " learn " the word ( see picture ) . The learned words are stored in . applies to all languages and for example only applies to U.S. English . When you press the learn button , the word is added to if the spelling language is set to automatic or to if the spelling language is set to U.S. English . If you edit the files in directly , you can apply the changes by terminating the process . Just quitting and reopening applications does not apply the changes .
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
From the <URL> : With iTunes Radio , you can easily share stations via AirDrop , Mail , Messages , Twitter , and Facebook . The stations you share continue to change as you tweak the mix , so your friends can listen to music that adjusts with your evolving tastes . Show off your favorite stations , or tune in to your friends ' to hear what they 're into . So , it appears to mean that they 're getting a read-only instance of your station , that updates as you update it .
No you wo n't be charged anything extra . The dialog is only warning you about the high data usage .
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
If you 've ruled out other issues ( HDD f/ex ) and want to roll back to 10.6.7 , the quickest way will be to re-install 10.6 followed by the <URL> .
You can edit the source of the world clock widget to add UTC ( or name it whatever you prefer ) : Then , in the Europe section , add the line : You may need to remove and recreate any existing clocks in your dashboard for UTC to show up in the list .
Does <URL> work ? It offers <URL> for a lot of formats , quote from the FAQ : Calibre supports the conversion of many input formats to many output formats . It can convert every input format in the following list , to every output format . Input Formats : CBZ , CBR , CBC , CHM , DJVU , EPUB , FB2 , HTML , HTMLZ , LIT , LRF , MOBI , ODT , PDF , PRC , PDB , PML , RB , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ Output Formats : EPUB , FB2 , OEB , LIT , LRF , MOBI , HTMLZ , PDB , PML , RB , PDF , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
You can use <URL> or contact Apple Support for the iTunes store to register that opinion / information about their music service .
you should be able to swipe from left to right along the item to get a delete button . The same way you used to have to delete on the iPhone before they added in multi-item delete .
It 's not a huge effort to go through , but it does involve a little effort on your part . I have n't tried this myself ( though will try it shortly just out of interest ) , but the basic principle seems to be to make a . webarchive file and drag it into the signatures preference box . <URL> <URL> <URL> EDIT : so I went and tried this and it DOES work in the current version of Mail.app , on Snow Leopard . The trick is essentially ; a ) create a . webarchive of your desired signature . Bear in mind that any graphics you put in there need to be graphics that are out on the ' open web ' , rather than references to files on your own computer etc. . I think it 's this bit that catches a lot of people out . b ) Go into Mail and go through the motions of creating a new signature . In the Library/Mail/Signatures folder you 'll see Mail creating a new file with a guid-like filename ( eg 61F51203-5C18-4061-A8EF-F53B17C41476 . webarchive ) . Make a note of this filename ! c ) Close down mail , and replace the contents of that signature file with your webarchive file . The best way of doing that is ; paste your webarchive file into the same folder ( eg rob.webarchive ) , then highlight the new file that Mail created and press return - the filename should become selected for you.Press Apple-C to copy this filename , and then alter the filename ( eg add ' old - ' to the front of the name ) . Press Return to close the ' name editing ' session.Now select your own webarchive file ( eg rob.webarchive ) , and again press return to edit the name . Now Apple-V in the name you copied from the first file , and press Return to close the editing . d ) When you restart Mail , the new signature you 've made will be available . Gotchas include ; you 're linking to images , css files or whatever that are not available on the internet.you 're not composing your message in ' rich text ' form But I 've just been through this and even though I have no use whatsoever for a HTML signature , it does work . :-)
There is no limit to how many iOS devices you can sync with iTunes . The 5 computer limit is how many computers you can have authorized simultaneously with iTunes .
According an <URL> : You can add a featured station to My Stations by tapping the Info ( i ) button , then tapping the Plus ( + ) button to the right of " Add to My Stations . "
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
If you 're located outside the US , iTunes Match is unavailable for the time being , due to content licensing deals . When iTunes Match was first announced I believe Apple stated they would be working on bringing it to more countries , but these negotiations always take some time . Hard to give a definite timeframe unless Apple announces something .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
end question
start question
Which OnyX setting resets my Chrome extensions ?
This is the Web Browser Cache and History . In the automated section , this setting clears for ALL web browsers and their cache . Deselect the setting . You can always delete your history and other browser specific caches manually thereafter . <URL>
Before Mac OS X , the Mac OS used ' forked ' files , which have two components : a data fork and a resource fork . The Mac OS Standard ( HFS ) and Mac OS Extended ( HFS Plus ) disk formats support forked files . When you move these types of files to other disk formats , the resource fork can be lost . With Mac OS X , there is a mechanism called " AppleDouble " that allows the system to work with file systems that do not have a forked file feature , such as remote NFS , SMB , WebDAV directories , or local UFS volumes . AppleDouble does this by converting the file into two separate files . The first new file keeps the original name and contains the data fork of the original file . The second new file has the name of the original file prefixed by a " . _ " and contains the resource fork of the original file . If you see both files , the . _ file can be safely ignored . Sometimes when deleting a file , the . _ component will not be deleted . If this occurs you can safely delete the . _ file . Essentially , when you 're working on files located on a network share you end up with duplicates of the file with a " . _ " prefix . You can run the following command to clean the files up . You could also make this into a launchctl or cron task .
Inbox → Menu → Settings → account → Action to take when done with a message → Move to bin
As a workaround , you could log into the admin section for each AP and look at the active connection list .
Yes . This setting reliably prevents a Mac from sleeping . I 've had my iMac set to " Never " sleep for over a year , and it 's still running ( though its display turns off after 10 minutes or so per the other setting on that screen ) .
No . Not unless you jailbreak your device . There is obviously Do-Not-Disturb which disables alerts , but does not put the phone on Airplane mode or disable wifi . Keep in mind that if you turn off wifi , or enable Airplane mode , that iCloud backups or iTunes backups wo n't work at that point . So , in order to conserve battery overnight , you will need to manually enable Airplane mode , disable wifi , or , you could power the device off completely . Again , keep in mind , iCloud backups will not perform during this time .
To switch quickly to the Address Bar use : Mac/OS X : ⌘ + L Win/Linux : Ctrl + L
<URL> ... is now available for iOS . Just activate ( bookmarks ) synchronisation on your PC and iPad . Go to New Tab > Favorites > Computer Favorites . From the App Store description : Sign in to Chrome to sync your open tabs , bookmarks , passwords , and omnibox data from your computer to your iPhone , iPod touch , or iPad . Pick up right where you left off . Send pages from Chrome on your computer to your iPhone , iPod touch , or iPad with one click and read them on the go , even if you 're offline .
The Newsstand is just a special " Store " where you can download a ' magazine ' app and the Newsstand itself which tracks the " issues " that your magazines have available So your Newsstand app can display anything it wants in any format it can decode and display - an issue is just a big bundle of data and the magazine app is just an app that decodes and displays that data . Apple do n't give you any information about content formats as they do n't care and do n't specify . PDF is a popular format as you can easily display PDFs on iOS using WebKit , indeed most magazines seem to use Webkit for displaying their data since it allows you to show a bunch of formats and it works well with embedded links .
Open Finder , select Go/Go to Folder ... ( ⇧ ⌘ G ) , paste in : Delete the apps from there . ( Note that ~ means your user folder , not the regular Applications folder . ) Finally , empty the trash to remove from launchpad . If you use Canary or any other type of Chrome build : it will have its own additional folder in .
I would recommend using the AAC MPEG4 set at 320KBS . We have done blind tests between this &amp; uncompressed in a hi-fi shop , and no one has been able to tell the difference . AAC is a great codec &amp; 10 years newer than MP3 . The other option ( if you have the room ) is to leave them uncompressed .
No , this is not possible unless Apple allows this in a future iOS update .
Just download the free ( ! ) <URL> and then you can simply share and sync all your desktop bookmarks to your iPhone/iPad .
If you simply want speed , then FW800 is faster than USB2 ( you do not have USB3 ) . USB has drawbacks which result in a lower then promised sustained speed ( FW800 > FW400 > USB2 ) . Edit : I 've done some research to get real world numbers . While the theoretical speeds are ( 100MB/s vs 50 MB/s vs 60MB/s ) the real world results result are ( 90MB/s vs 30MB/s vs 30MB/s ) due to limits cause by bridge-chips ( <URL> ) . Since hard drives allow transfer speeds above 30MB/s , you should take FW800 . If you want to be upgrade safe for a future Mac , I 'd take USB2/3 . Firewire support is probably going to be dropped in the near future ( see Macbook Air ) . Thunderbolt is overkill - as you said .
Use <URL> worked OK for me except for Firefox where it duplicated the book marks each time I used it . Althougn now in Mavericks or because of a later version of Firefox it works
I 'm not exactly sure what you mean by sticky notes , but I have been using the free " GoTasks " for quite some time . I 've found that it is by far the best integration into google tasks , and you can leave little notes with each separate task .
You do n't say how the server mac is sharing the HFS + formatted drive . I would suspect it is AFP in which case the NAS drive format is largely irrelevant . The NAS will store files on it 's storage in whatever format is best for the OS of the NAS , and expose those files through network shares in a single or a variety of formats . The client machines mount the shares and should be unaware of the underlying storage ( just as they will be unaware that it will likely be a RAID configuration of some sort ) Synology , QNAP , Netgear , Drobo and many many others all adopt this approach . The major factor is getting a NAS supplier who fully supports AFP and does not just see it as an afterthought to be tagged on with a bog standard install of the AFP packages which may be out of date or have not been tested or tuned . The introduction of Lion saw a number of NAS devices with difficulties sharing AFP until they could be patched . Of course during this period the users could have switched to using CIFS shares and keep going .
You wo n't be able to use it on any CDMA networks . T-Mobile is no problem . Metro PCS has a big " bring your own device " headline on its site so I 'd guess it 's OK as well .
As you know , per your question , the preferences in the Preview app only apply to documents when first opened . It seems that OS X has a built in default view for full screen documents . I tried a couple things ... I opened a PDF to Full Screen and set the view to Continuous to see if this would stick and that view would be chosen next time I went full screen . Not the case . I searched every preference file related to Preview ( also using 10.9.2 ) and found no setting even indirectly related to a view setting specifically when in full screen . I 'd say , doing what you want is either not possible at all or at best it 'd require getting into a preference setting somewhere you would n't want to poke around with . My guess would be it 's a setting inside Preview.app 's package contents . Fooling around in there can get hairy As an alternative to setting a new default , the keyboard shortcut to switch to Continuous view is : So you can just quickly hit that each time you go full screen and the view changes immediately . It 's not exactly what you wanted , but it 's a very fast alternative . Hope that helps !
Each Mail account on your iOS 4 + device is able to sync notes . When you have it enabled for multiple mail accounts you 're able to have notes stored in different accounts . The Default Account setting will be for which account the notes are associated with unless you say so otherwise ( Identical to the Default mail account in terms of functionality ) . The screenshot below might help - namely showing the Notes app is like the Mail application - an All Notes ( Mail ) view and just viewing on the individual accounts . ( <URL> )
end question
start question
Can I efficiently make a pdf out of 10 jpeg images ?
You may want to watch this <URL> - it shows the scenario that I believe you 're looking to solve - it uses Preview to create a multi-page PDF . The steps are : Open your images in Preview Select from the menu ( or ⌘ P ) Click on the " " button in the Print dialog and select " " from the dropdown Provide a file name and
Here are the steps to save multiple images in Preview into a single multi-page PDF . Select all of the images you want in your PDF , right-click and choose open with Preview In Preview 's Sidebar drag the images into the order you want them to appear in your PDF Select/highlight all the images to be included in the PDF document ; otherwise only a single image may end up the PDF document Then from the " File " menu choose " Print Selected Images " ( or " Print ... " in recent OS X versions ) and then " PDF > Save as PDF "
You can double click the Home Button to see recently run apps and choose the previous one . There is not a hardware or software back button as there is on Android phones . Here is an apple article on <URL> .
You have two options . 1 . On-the-road compatible , but not so user-friendy Create a new playlist on the iOS device ( iPod Touch is one , of course ) . Then , add the songs one by one from memory . They will be kept in sort order , and the playlist will be synced to iTunes for future use . 2 . Much easier , but with listening limitations Sync with iTunes . Select the Library source on the left panel . Sort the tracks by " last played " , by clicking on the title of the " Last played " column . If this column is not visible , right-click on any column 's title and check the corresponding item ( or hit ⌘ J and check it ) . Find the set of songs you liked and select it . Create a new playlist from this selection ( ⌘ ⇧ N ) . Reverse the sort order of the newly created playlist by clicking on the ( empty ) title of the column that contains the play index ( numbers at the extreme left of a song 's title ) . The only problem with this solution is that if you listen to one of the songs that were in your set , it will have its Last played field updated , and wo n't be in the proper place ... So this solution is usable only if you can sync pretty quickly after listening to the set , or can remember a few songs ' positions , or if you avoid listening to them altogether before the next sync .
A lot of PDF viewers on the iPad allow rotation of PDF files . An example would be <URL> which is a good app to have anyway if you need offline access to PDFs etc. . To open a PDF in GoodReader e.g. from Mail use the " Open with ... " button .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
Yes you can disable the image previews on Finder . Right-click on the folder and select " Show View Options . " A long window will appear . On the 5th group from the top , you should see a checkmark called " Show icon preview " . Deselect it . Once you are done , select the " Use as Defaults " bottom , which is located at the bottom of the window .
I would say that the only damage caused by a cigarette to the aluminum itself would be cosmetic . Clearly , the pebbled surface will trap nicotine and ash on the Aluminum . I suspect that Apple <URL> their unibody parts - and if so , that creates a hard , durable layer of aluminum oxide that protects the metal from scratches , stains , and further oxidation I also expect that action would drive most neat freaks up the proverbial wall , but from a chemical and heat aspect - a single lit cigarette does n't have enough heat to do any damage . It would slightly warm up a small area of the case but do no harm to the insides . Also , I 've seen solid aluminum ashtrays in use for tens of years in harsh environments with no real pitting or permanent damage to them . An internet search for " milled aluminum ashtray " or " milled aluminum engine block " will show that aluminum ( and aluminum alloys ) can stand up to substantial heat in diverse settings . I would be more concerned at the smoke , tar , nicotine getting inside the display and the Mac , corroding the circuit boards , covering contacts in ports and clogging the blowers over time . Tacky , messy , provoke a reaction in others ? - yes Damage the aluminum surface ? - not so much
Way back in the OS 9 days , we could install hacks to do crazy things like recolour windows and move around those window controls , but now they are simply buried too close to the metal to do system-wide . Back in those days too many of these hacks would cause system instability . I 'm sure Apple could have built in such customization cleanly in OS X , and indeed in the very early versions I recall some rudimentary functionality for " skinning " -- but today having a consistent user interface is viewed by the company as a feature , not a liability . I found <URL> with a fairly nice summary of utilities that bring some of the best features of windows to OS X . But unfortunately ( fortunately ? ) adding extra menu bar clutter to every single window or moving the window controls is n't one of them .
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
UPDATE : The problem was due to broken filesystem permissions which were preventing the system from applying the update . Once the permissions have been fixed using Disk Utility , the update took place like a sweet .
<URL> . Because of that , you will continue to be able to upgrade to iOS 9.3.5 at any time in the future . Apple continues to sign the last available firmware for all devices , which will be iOS 9.3.5 for the iPad 2 . Examples of how the last supported version of iOS for a device continues to be signed : <URL>
Tap and hold the language key ( the one that looks like a globe or possibly an Emoji smile face ) and set the toggle for " Predictive " to off .
<URL> . Not sure why I did n't think of this earlier . In short : Apple has some other tricks to try if you 're on an OS prior to Mountain Lion , but it looks like this should work for Leopard through Mountain Lion . You can confirm by comparing output of before and after resetting the SyncServices folder . You should see some lines about your device prior and no lines about it after .
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
Another , possibly quicker way , is to drag it into your dock ( if not already there ) , then right-click it , go to Options > Open at Login . Then drag it out of your dock if you do n't want it to stay in your dock .
Try Adobe Reader . You can use iTunes to transfer PDF files to and from it and send them by email too . ( Tested on an iPad ; probably works the same way on an iPhone . )
After exploring the imported folder , I noticed an alias file . This linked to a folder , which contained an additional 20GB of images . That , apparently was the boogyman . Tip if you experience an similar situation : Explore the folder and check for links to other folders , hidden files or iPhoto libraries . There may be files/folders excluded from calculation of folder size , but are added in the iPhoto library . This is slightly painful and shameful , but this is the truth . .
I 'm a little surprised that no one has mentioned the easiest , cheapest , and least technical option : Automator First , open Automator , which is in your Applications folder . Next , choose to create a new workflow : Next , add the following steps to the workflow by dragging and dropping : When you run this , Automator is going to : pop up a window asking you to pick some files ( as many as you want ) pop up another window asking where you want to save the resized copies ask you how big you want the resized copies to be . You 'll be able to choose either a fixed size or a percentage . All the images will be resized to either that size or by that percentage . ( The " show this action when the workflow runs " checkbox means that the workflow is going to pause , display the option , and allow you to change it then ) Once you do that , Automator is going to churn and burn , and when it 's done it 'll beep at you . Unfortunately , it does n't seem to have an option to choose JPEG quality . However , for the price ( free ) , it 's pretty dang convenient .
end question
start question
Does iOS have a built-in RSS reader ?
Sort of ... you can go into Safari , choose a website , then click the bookmark icon , select the @ tab , click Subscriptions and then click Add Current Site . Otherwise Reeder for IOS is a great RSS reader . <URL>
<URL> is pretty solid , with a simple clean interface , and the ability to add feeds directly int he app - no Google reader required . I use Reeder now , which I think has a nicer , slicker interface , but Reeder requires Google sync - you ca n't add feeds directly in the app . Before that , I was very happy with NewsRack .
Given the absence of answers ( aside from Cawas ' sterling efforts ) , I 'm going to call this one a " no " for now . The situation might just change once iOS 5 and iCloud go live .
Each app is placed in it 's own sandbox which limits the app 's access to files etc. . More info here : <URL>
Sure -- the easiest way to do this is to edit the screensaver 's Quartz composition file . It 's located at In order to edit this , you 'll need Quartz Composer , which you may already have ( if you installed an old version of the developer tools ) , or you can download it with the Graphics Tools package <URL> . Open the aforementioned file , click on the " RSS " macro patch , and change the News Count to your liking : Then save the file or make a copy and put it in ~ / Library/Screen Savers . Edit : I just spent a while trying to figure out if you can expose this option via the options panel , but it seems there 's some very specific interface in place for the RSS Visualizer screensaver ( see ) , so you ca n't do it if you also want to see the normal RSS options .
Add a rule like this to : The is required because a div has an inline style attribute that overrides the fonts in .
There are restrictions on Airplay in Mountain Lion . It has to do with your video card that comes on the machines that you are using . Your video card has to be powerful enough to do all the heavy lifting of streaming so that your CPU is unhindered and therefor you can smoothly still use your machine . This <URL> should help you out and explain things and find an alternative , such as AirParrot . Here is an <URL> on the subject , listing the restrictions and giving more information on how Airplay Mirroring works . Here is the excert from the article showing the compatible computers : As for a Mac Pro , they are not listed as a compatible model that supports Airplay Mirroring , as discussed in this article <URL> . You can still connect a cable and mirror in that sense , that has not changed in ML . The mirroring feature of using a separate display is a completely different process than Airplay Mirroring . I hope that this answer helps you out .
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
It depends slightly on what you mean by " highlighting text " . The PDF specification allows for highlighted text and some apps , such as GoodReader , do their highlighting by taking advantage of this . Other apps , such as iAnnotate and GoodNotes , work in a slightly different way . They consider the PDF as a background and then draw on top of it . If you draw with slightly transparent ink then you can create the effect of a highlighter pen . These two techniques are different : Proper highlighting . Main characteristics : it follows the text precisely and it goes under the text . The latter is a definite advantage , but the former can be irritating : if you have , for example , maths where the characters go above and below the line then the highlighting goes up and down as well . Overlaid highlighting . Main characteristics : it is not constrained to follow the text and it goes over the text . This means that it is much more like a real highlighter pen on paper and so you can highlight absolutely anything on the page . I use GoodReader , iAnnotate , and GoodNotes and like them all . GoodReader does " proper " highlighting whilst the other two do the " overlay " type ( GoodReader can do overlayed highlighting if you choose the pen correctly ) . I find the overlay type fits better with my reading ( but I am a mathematician ) , but GoodReader has various other benefits that make it the better choice for reading PDFs for me . ( I often have GoodReader and GoodNotes open as " adjacent " apps so that I can flip between reading a PDF and writing my ideas . )
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
Notes are stored locally without limit other than storage space on the iOS device . They <URL> and there is a web app for viewing / editing the notes . They do count towards your 5 GB of free iCloud storage that you get by virtue of operating an iOS device . Should you need more storage than that , you can pay yearly . If you do n't sync the notes to the cloud , then that limit is not in effect . Whether or not you sync with iCloud , the notes are stored locally on the iPad .
Just some options I 've found a few people discussing . Hope it helps . <URL> David Smith announced that he 's been working on an RSS aggregation service to replace Google Reader . <URL> ... just announced that if you 're using their app , they plan to seamlessly integrate the syncing to their own sync server . <URL> ... a self-hosted feed catcher that already syncs with Reeder , as well as quite a few other iOS apps . <URL> River2 is a River of News feed reader with lots of features . <URL> ... one of the most popular web reader , offering a Google Reader-like interface as well as a snazzy iGoogle-like homepage . <URL> ... is also a great option , with an interface that 's very similar to Google Reader ( and arguably a little more polished ) . You create an account with them , subscribe to your favorite sites , and can read them on any computer . They even have Android and iOS apps that 'll sync your feeds , too <URL> See all your feed , summaries and article content side-by-side . Source : <URL> , <URL> &amp; <URL>
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
As with the iPhone , if you shake the iPad vigorously , you get offered the choice of : Undo Cancel For me , this does n't feel at all natural on the iPad , and I imagine that 's why some iPad applications ( e.g. Textastic ) provide their own Undo/Redo buttons . Edit Thanks to @Lizzan for also pointing out in the comments : There 's also an Undo button in the bottom left on the numerical keyboard - makes a bit more sense than shaking the iPad .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
On Windows XP On Windows Vista/Windows 7 On Mac I believe that the updates do not delete after they are installed . Via <URL> .
Since you mentioned Firesheep , let me put in a plug for <URL> : Sheepsafe was built to automate the task of switching your network configuration to use a SOCKS proxy whenever you join an untrusted network . Sheepsafe works by keeping a configuration of known safe wireless networks . When you join an untrusted network , Sheepsafe switches to a network location that has a SOCKS proxy configured and starts a SOCKS proxy by SSH ' ing into a remote server , thus protecting your browsing traffic from FireSheep and other snoopers on the local network . When you switch back to a safe network , Sheepsafe switches back to the default , trusted location and shuts down the SOCKS proxy .
Have a look at <URL> . The project tries to reproduce Ubuntu 's for Homebrew users on OS X.
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
end question
start question
Is there a default SSH password on Mac OS X ?
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
All actions taken on a non admin account that would need admin privileges require the user to enter the name of an admin account and the password before continuing . So if you download software on a standard user account , when you come to install it you will be asked to enter the admin user name and password . I use the admin account and my girlfriend has a standard user account . She can import music , photos download apps from the app store , she can change system preferences in the settings panel but not alter the status of my admin account , create accounts , etc , etc. . I have not heard of this procedure of using a non admin account as to do anything that will change the system as you are required to enter the password anyway .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Yes , you can achieve your desired behavior without disabling Messages on your Mac . If you turn off notifications for Messages from within System Preferences , you will still receive the messages , but will not be notified that they came in . You can turn notifications off on the following screen . Simply click on " None " , and deselect all the checkboxes , as illustrated below :
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
<URL> is widely recognised as a quality free alternative to Photoshop in many regards . ... but it 's not considered to be particularly successful in it 's approach to embracing Mac OS X application design ;) If you want something that is n't necessarily free but is at least inexpensive , then there are a number of other programs including <URL> and <URL> available in the Mac App Store . You could always try the cut down <URL> . For a good roundup , see this wonderful blog post from the Ask Different Community Blog for more info : <URL>
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Check to make sure you have enough RAM , Snow Leopard requires 1GB of RAM . Snow Leopard does not require a 64-bit processor .
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
You should try opera <URL> it fast and works well . Caveat : Opera only works on Macs with Intel-based processors . If you have a PowerPC chip ( G5 ) , good luck . Opera 12 wo n't work .
Booting to Recovery Mode you will find the users ' . plist files in Do n't forget to escape spaces in the name of your main OS X volume with a backslash . Booting to Single User Mode you have to mount your main volume first :
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
If you 're looking for something that shows more than GeekTool with iCalBuddy , then the following apps may help : <URL> ( currently a free app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) See more at <URL>
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
A plausible way of resetting the password of your login on your OS X is to : Go to Single-user mode ( CMD + S on boot ) Type : and press Enter Type and press Enter Type and press Enter . On boot , you will be prompted to setup like if your mac was new . Do n't panic , as your data is not lost ( I would backup just in case though ) . Skip all unnecessary options , and later you will be prompted to create a new admin account . Once your setup finishes , from the new account , go to System Preferences > Users and Groups , click on your previous username and click Reset Password . Now type in the new password and login as your old account .
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
end question
start question
How can I open files in the Coda editor file browser using the keyboard ?
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
Bad Idea Using to move files to trash is like weed . It is common and pleasuring but can be bad for you in the future . ;) You really need control yourself when using . Do n't use rm Imagine , you get used to rm moving to trash and make a habit of it . Sure , your system is safe but when you log into a friend 's ( or your wife 's or your boss ' ) notebook and have to delete something ? You 'll be actually using the real - deleting those files forever . It 's a bad habit , and you need to know that . So instead , install and make a habit of using it : Correcting bad habits Another thing you can do to force yourself to use instead of is alias it to a custom message in your . So , whenever you use , you 'll be prompted to either use or . Remember , this is only temporary , after a while you should remove the alias . Never ever , do something like this : Pop Quiz : In what directory will the command run ? :) Ps : Just removed some unwanted edits to this post , what added some nonsenses about the aliases .
System Prefences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Enable " Full Keyboard Access : All Controls " , then you can use Tab to move between elements until your file list is highlighted , and use the arrows to select your file , in fact you should immediately be able to type a letter or use the keys as the default focus should be on the file list .
will permanently delete files , with a confirmation dialog warning that this action can not be undone . simply moves files to Trash , without confirmation . Tip : whenever you want Mac app to do the same action but a little differently , try doing it with button pressed .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
Highlight the result in Spotlight , then press ⌘ ↩ . This will open the containing folder in Finder . Alfred will also let you do this , with a bit more customisation :
It is also the tab key . The difference to Windows is , that the " return " key always pushes the default button ( which is the colored one ) . The currently selected button ( which can be changed using the tab key ) is marked through a colored border . If you 'd like to push this button , you have to press the space bar .
<URL> has long since been a staple of simple personal web hosting by Windows-using friends ' of mine . Allow me to repeat this , I have NEVER used XAMPP myself , it only comes recommended by friends of mine . This gist of this process is that you need a web server running on port 80 on your desktop machine . And you also need to know what it 's internal IP addresses is . Assuming you use XAMPP , download it , get it installed and configured to run on port 80 . Check to ensure Windows Firewall opened up port 80 for it . Next , drop your web files into XAMPP 's web serving directory . Then , fire up your iPhone , and open Safari . Browse to your computer 's IP address / index.html or the file 's given filename . ( Ex : )
This is not possible at all right now . Like you said , you can back out and go in again to dismiss keyboard . Other option is to tap the ' edit ' button on top right . That will dismiss keyboard but it will go in edit mode . When you cancel out of edit mode keyboard will come back . Apple should do something to easily bring up and dismiss keyboard ... Update : With iOS 5 , you can swipe messages down all the way pushing the keyboard downwards . Initially I thought , " why not just swipe down the keyboard itself to dismiss ? " But now it makes sense because you start scrolling down to see previous messages and keyboard naturally goes away when you do that .
No , this is not possible unless Apple allows this in a future iOS update .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
Try CtrlF2 - that should highlight the Apple-symbol on the main menubar . edit : The cursor keys and Enter then allow you to navigate , drill-down and ultimately select an item - just as you can on Windows . also - ca n't claim credit for this , I learnt it here on the site ! <URL>
It does n't look like there is a direct AppleScript dictionary for working with Bluetooth this way . You could use GUI scripting though , which basically uses the accessibility feature of the Mac OS to select menu items , etc. . A great writeup on how to start with GUI AppleScript is available on <URL> . GUI automation can be difficult if you have a constantly changing list of things , but if you commonly have a list of bluetooth items connected that stays the same you should be ok . You could then call this AppleScript through Alfred .
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
<URL> For current Mac keyboard layouts . Control + Shift + Eject works for older keyboard layouts that still include the Eject key . <URL> explains some alternate solutions as well . Also , if you have " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " set to immediately in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy , it will ask you for your password after doing this .
There sure is . When you have a song selected , you can press &#8984; + return and it will allow you to quickly edit the song title .
The behavior that you 've described appears to be a limitation of the Safari mobile browser . Other users have complained about the Safari Mobile auto refresh behavior on several Apple community forum posts . This <URL> offers some explanations and potential solutions : This is not a feature ... It 's a limitation . MobileSafari keeps website cache only in RAM , and therefore , once it runs out of RAM , it 'll automatically destroy an entire page , forcing the refresh , disguising itself as an auto-refresh feature . You can only keep at most 3 pages open at any time ... Even the iPhone 4 with double the amount of RAM can only keep 5 pages . You can try a third-party browser that has offline caching , and it 'll remedy the situation . Or alternatively , use the swap file mod I posted in the jailbreak forums and it should work , too . These third-party browsers have offline page caching as far as I know : <URL> ( also supports concurrent tab , which means you can browse websites while listening to music on youtube , this is my personal favourite ) <URL> ( many useful features , but the interface is a bit strange ) <URL> ( cool browser that looks like a shrunk version of desktop Safari ) Your choices appear to be : Use a jailbreak mod to increase the swap file size ( hopefully will increase number of pages that can be stored ) Use a third party browser that supports offline caching
Under Keyboard &amp; Mouse on System Preferences there is a Keyboard Shortcuts tab .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Create an AppleScript like this one , and call it something like TerminalNightMode : You can replace the " Pro " setting with the setting name of your choice . When you run this AppleScript , it will change the settings for all the tabs in all windows . I recommend putting this script on the dock for easy access . Likewise , you can make another script for day mode .
end question
start question
How can I use a Linux box 's display as a third display for my MacBook Pro ?
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
As described in <URL> to prevent the Mac from using the internal monitor the following command need to be run then restart .
Yes , you can easily copy virtual machines between systems . The easiest way would be to just create the virtual machine on your linux machine , and when you are ready to copy it over , you can export it as an appliance . This will give you a single file to copy over to you Macbook Air . Once you have the file copied over to your Air , you can then import it there , and you will be all set to try it out .
You could convert them all to ePub using <URL> . Add the ePubs to iTunes and they should sync with iBooks . As not all PDFs are formatted the same , some will show the generic cover while some will show the first page when converted to ePub . You can change the cover art for each book individually in iTunes , by selecting the book > Right click > Get Info > Artwork .
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Retina displays To user <URL> 's own words from the <URL> : ... which means : The pixels of this display are so small that from a normal working distance your retina can not discern those individual pixels . ( <URL> ) There is no industry standard for " retina display " . The term retina display is relative , as the definition follows the human eyes 's perception of a display 's sharpness . When the iPhone 4 was introduced , Steve Jobs made the following definition : At a distance of 10 " to the human eye ( or retina ) , a pixel density of 300PPI is the maximum that an eye can distinguish . Because this definition is relative , calling a display a retina display depends on two factors : pixel density distance between the human eye an the display Both the iPhone 4S and the new iPad have " retina displays " when you apply Steve Job 's definition . A mathematical explanation can be found in <URL> .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
Under your System Preferences > Display , you 've got this Just drag the white bar to the other screen to set it as the main screen . You might have to do that every time you reboot / reconnect the external screen .
No . The app does n't currently have an override and simply takes the distance units from the system settings . It surely would be nice to have finer control , but the code is n't there to make a change today .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
Have you tried : Cmd + F2 I 've connected my MacBook Air with my iMac , and it just works fine . But you have no change to see the two devices at the same time .
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
According to <URL> , this should work . <URL> confirms it . These are the troubleshooting steps I would try : Run all software updates on both the iMac and MacBook Air . A lot of times there are firmware updates that address issues like this . Open System Preferences > Displays and click Detect Displays . Reset the <URL> on both the iMac and the MacBook Air by restarting the computer and holding & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + P+R on boot but until you hear the POST chime twice . Then you can let go and boot normally . Be sure to do this on both machines . Try going through these steps and let me know if you 're able to resolve the issue .
<URL> Netkas has a ROM at that link that works for 5870s . You might also get by without flashing by going the Hackintosh route and <URL>
Unless there is some reason to the contrary that I 'm not aware of , yes , you can use your MacBook charger with your iPhone . The power adapter will only convert as much power as is drawn , and the iPhone will only draw as much power as it needs . ( Note that it is not a good idea to charge your MacBook with an iPhone or iPad charger ! )
To see all graphics supported modes use the alt key before clicking on Scaled in display preferences . To see it in 19:9 use a Thunderbolt cable to a TV . ( assuming you have those ) If you have a Mac like I do ( MBA 2012 ) then using the Thunderbolt you can get up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on your HDTV .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
end question
start question
Q : Backing up Notes.app content ( on the iCloud / OSX / iOS ) for safekeep ?
The content of your Notes.app is located in So to back it all up you need to copy/move everything in the directory above to another location and restore it later .
Yes you can -- iCloud can be used to sync anything that you wish . Open ~ / Library/Mobile Documents and create a folder ( call it anything you wish ) . Inside , put whatever documents you would like to sync over iCloud . That folder will sync with other Macs ( and jailbroken iOS devices , and on the web too if you have a Apple Developer licence ) . Alternatively , you can symlink a folder on your Mac in to the Mobile Documents folder so that the files remain in their original location .
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
The data returned from Backblaze ought to be correctly recognised by the Mac . Folders like iPhoto have a special structure that the Mac shows you as a single file , but in reality it is just a folder . In the same way , Applications are , in fact , folders too - but the Mac hides the structure from you by default . This is what your iPhoto Library looks like on Backblaze ... When you get your drive , you may have to point iPhoto &amp; similar apps [ Aperture , iMovie , Final Cut Pro all have similar structures for their Libraries ] to that ' folder ' initially , but it should then be treated as your regular Library . Edit : I just tested this empirically by downloading my entire iPhoto Library from Backblaze . When it arrived , it was in its original disk/folder hierarchy ; so had that been an emergency situation I could have copied the entire structure right back to where it came from . Initially , it looked like a regular folder , but [ a step you may not need to take if everything is restored to its original locations ] launching iPhoto with the Opt ⌥ key down to choose a new Library &amp; selecting that folder - as soon as it had finished loading to iPhoto , the ' proper ' iPhoto Library icon &amp; ' hidden ' structure was restored to it .
I just checked the font , and it 's correct , that character is not there in Gill Sans , Gill Sans Bold , Gill Sans Italic , or Gill Sans Light Italic . In fact , I 've been checking out <URL> who made the font files , and they do n't have that character in most of their versions of the typeface either . Monotype does offer a <URL> which you could license , if Gill Sans and the o with a macron are both essential to your app . From Monotype 's site , here 's a sample of Gill Sans Cyrillic Regular :
It looks like <URL> allows you to configure whitelists , blacklists , and even more advanced configurations for network access . You can make a cellular profile and switch to it when you use your tethering . It also measures how much bandwidth you 've used , per app and total . You can even automatically switch profiles when you connect to your tethered Wi-Fi or Bluetooth network .
As the <URL> reports , iCloud stores your pictures in Photo Stream for 30 days . iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You can delete any photos you do n't want from the Photo Stream ( Photo Stream photos downloaded to an iOS device with iOS 5.0.1 or earlier must be deleted manually after updating to iOS 5.1 or later . ) . To touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . After 30 days pictures are removed from iCloud but not from the Photo Stream album on your devices . If you remove a picture stored in the Photo Stream album from one of your devices Before 30 days , the picture will be removed from all your devices After 30 days , the picture will be removed only from that device , because the picture is not anymore on iCloud . You should also consider that pictures are removed from your Photo Stream albums on your devices when they reach the 1000th picture . iCloud pushes all your photos to the My Photo Stream album on your devices and computers , and manages them efficiently , so you do n't run out of storage space . Your iOS devices keep a rolling collection of your last 1000 photos in the My Photo Stream album . From there , you can browse your recent photos or move the ones you like to your Camera Roll or another album to keep them on your device forever . Since your Mac and PC have more storage than your iOS devices , you can choose to have all of your My Photo Stream photos automatically downloaded . In iPhoto or Aperture preferences on your Mac , be sure to select Photo Stream > My Photo Stream > Automatic Import . All of your photo stream photos will be imported into your Events , Projects , Photos , Faces , and Places folders in iPhoto or Aperture . On your PC with Photo Stream enabled in the Control Panel , all of your photos will be imported into C : \ Users \ \ Pictures \ Photo Stream \ My Photo Stream . N.B. 1 You can always reset you Photo Straem from <URL> . N.B. 2 You should satisfy the following requirements Deleting individual photos from Photo Stream is supported by iOS 5.1 or later , iPhoto 9.2.2 or later , Aperture 3.2.3 or later , and Apple TV Software Update 5.0 or later . You will need to manually delete photos you downloaded to iOS devices using iOS 5.0.1 or earlier after updating to iOS 5.1 .
Turn off Autocorrect per Application You can do this in the Applications Edit Menu under Spelling and Grammar and disable ' Check Spelling While Typing ' .
What I was looking for turns out to be the <URL> called The <URL> that along with <URL> forms the <URL> of the OSX . <URL> seems to be the interface that routes requests from applications that use the X11 framework to the Quartz Compositor .
Sorta -- but no . There are actually three different things we 're talking about here . iCloud mail Storage of attachments in iCloud Backup Each of these items are very distinct , but all pull from the same storage pool ( your 5GB default . ) Let 's go over each . The first is <URL> . This is an email service effectively equivalent to any other , provided by Apple . Depending on when you registered for it ( if at all ) , you 'll have either an @icloud . com , @me . com , or @mac . com address . If you 're not registered ( which is what it appears is the case with your account ) , you simply do n't have one . It 's by no means necessary . The second storage in iCloud . There are two versions of this : the first is temporary storage of large attachments in iCloud . This is a fairly new feature : you may notice if sending an attachment over a certain size that it will ask if you 'd like to store it in iCloud instead . <URL> In essence , this is no different from any other app using iCloud for storage . <URL> -- or rather lack thereof . Backups ( at least of iOS devices to iCloud ) do not store mail data , as it has to exist somewhere else in the cloud -- be it on Apple , Google , or whoever 's servers . In summary , you are n't using any space for mail in iCloud ( unless you told it to , and you can always turn it off . )
The content of your Notes.app is located in So to back it all up you need to copy/move everything in the directory above to another location and restore it later .
If you have an iCloud account , you can enable Photo stream and sync it to your Mac or PC , then delete them on iPad , and you can upgrade . BTW iOS 7.0.2 to 7.0.3 OTA only takes less than 1GB of space , so you can just delete some music or apps you do n't want .
iCloud Photo Library is available starting 2015 on OS X Until now , you have the chance to sync between iOS devices running both iOS 8 and have Photo Library activated . activate Photo stream and see your photos in iPhoto iCloud Photo Library is still Beta , and will come to the Mac in 2015 , and to the icloud.com as well .
The predominant theory as to why the current Facebook app for iOS is so sluggish is that the app : suffers from its heavy use of JavaScript in a UIWebView component which does not currently benefit from the " Nitro " Javascript engine which is available to Mobile Safari is poorly designed The app uses very little native code , and thus most of your interaction takes place within a UIWebView displaying HTML and executing Javascript . Essentially , anywhere where an app is displaying something that looks and acts like it 's " embedding a web browser " , that 's a UIWebView . In very simple terms , the Nitro Javascript engine makes Javascript " faster " . iOS 4.3 brought the Nitro engine to Mobile Safari , and IOS 5 brought the Nitro engine to web shortcuts launched from the home screen . This is one potential reason why your use of Facebook within Mobile Safari seems so much more responsive . As of iOS 5.1 , UIWebView does not benefit from the Nitro Javascript engine . This issue has been recently discussed on the Mobtest blog , " <URL> " with a number of comments in <URL> . Within the current app , Facebook has recently increased their promotion of additional iOS apps : <URL> <URL> <URL> These apps -- ranging from " old news " to " brand new " -- seem to do a good job of focusing on doing a single Facebook-related task well , in some cases adding support for something which the general Facebook iOS app does not even support .
Well - at the most basic level iOS and Mac OS X are the same kernel and startup processes using launchd and standard unix-heritage programs . iOS has full sandboxing and arguably tighter access control infrastructure to build up - so in some ways , iOS does more to start up than Mac OS X does . Once you add on mac things , of course it is more extensible so many people have much bigger loads to lift on an OS X reboot than an iOS boot . I would argue that all the above arguments are moot and to a first approximation , you are seeing the CPU capability of the Mac hardware shining as well as the read speed of the mac storage as opposed to the iOS storage and the effects of more RAM being a better advantage and more than offsetting the larger library and binary size on Mac OS X.
As Apple explains it <URL> it seems to be a 2-way sync . <URL> confirms that .
BBEdit 's latest release is REALLY good . I first encountered BB way back in the day on OS7 , and it was more editor than I needed at the time , and it only confused me . Since then I 've become a much heavier-duty text editor user , and when they brought out a new release a couple months ago I pulled the trigger . It 's EXCELLENT . Every feature I 've wanted , it 's had for me , waiting to discover . Ca n't recommend it highly enough . You can find it on the App Store .
You can close all windows of an application ( including Finder ) with ⌘ + ⌥ + w . You can add a quit option to the Finder by running : Considering Finder is responsible for the desktop icons , quitting it rather pointless , but have it !
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
Not at the moment . To view your <URL> you need to access it on an Apple device ( Mac , iOS or Apple TV ) that 's signed in with your iCloud ID . iCloud.com does n't offer any functionality to view the Photo Stream , and it seems unlikely to any time soon .
end question
start question
How can I record my iPhone 's screen ?
I do n't believe there 's a way to do it without jailbreaking . Because of the security restrictions on what apps can access , and particularly the limited functionality when running in the background , I 'm pretty sure it 's impossible without jailbreaking ( and maybe even if you do jailbreak ) . If you 're looking to make a screen-cast or something similar , the technique I 've heard is popular ( at least with <URL> , who does a lot of iOS app videos ) is using the iPhone simulator included with Xcode .
According to <URL> ... Also , to turn on/off shadow : And to change file type : You 'll want to to make the commands take effect .
No - Apple TV ( currently ) engages HDCP only when needed to protect content that requires HDCP . This is called out in <URL> as a footnote in teeny tiny grey text : Requires HDCP when playing protected content . You should be able to use whatever HDMI recorder you please as long as the software does n't detect protected content being played . You can be sure the engineers have considered that they need to pass the HDCP status from say Hulu or rented movies on iOS to the Apple TV when playing protected content . So if you want to record a demo of your normal app usage , this will work well , but not so much for bypassing HDCP by indirection . If you can gat a computer , a much more robust recording solution is offered in <URL> .
<URL> ( US$ 15 ) turns a ( Lion or above ) Mac into an AirPlay receiver that can handle mirroring . Once you 've got the mirrored display on a Mac , all you need is to capture that video , which is easy . For example : Start Reflection on the Mac . Turn mirroring on ( requires iPad 2 or newer or iPhone 4S or newer ) , selecting the Mac as the target . Use a video screen capture program ( Quicktime Player can do this , but there are lots of more advanced ones if you need more ) to record the Reflection window . No jailbreaking is required . <URL> ( also US$ 15 ) is another application that offers essentially the same functionality as Reflection ( and was released slightly afterwards ) , but is also available for Windows , if you do n't have a Mac to do the recording on .
No , this does not work . I started a background recording with DropVox , then switched over to PlainText and tapped the dictation button and dictated a sentence . I then switched back to DropVox and it looked like it was still recording ( the counter was still going up ) . I stopped it , it uploaded the file , but when I listened to it the start and end were there , but the part from when I started dictating to when I opened DropVox back up was n't . Very strange , but ultimately the answer is it does n't work . If you 're curious , the resultant audio file can be found <URL> . " And it looks like the timer 's still going " was said after DropVox opened back up .
No . The organic material is applied during assembly . I 'm not aware of any place that can " replenish " the lipophobic substance . Apple has this to say : " Please note that the ability of this coating to repel oil will diminish over time with normal usage , and that rubbing the screen with an abrasive material will further diminish its effect and may scratch your screen . " Source : <URL> You can , however look into replacement covers that also contain lipophobic properties : <URL>
The App Store found in iTunes is only for iPhone/iPod/iPad apps . Mac apps can be found on the <URL> . Angry Birds is available for Mac for <URL> . You can also play for free online at <URL> . Note that iPhone and iPad apps are not linked to desktop Mac apps , so when you buy an app for an iPhone or iPad , it does not come with a Mac version and there is no guarantee that a Mac version is even available . Sometimes apps are available on both the iOS ( iPhone/iPad ) App Store and the separate Mac App Store , as is the case for Angry Birds .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
I found a solution that works for my needs : As it turns out , I should not lock the screen , but instead start the screensaver , and require the screensaver to immediately require a password . I created a ' Start Screensaver ' service with Automator , and then selected a keyboard shortcut for that service under Settings - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services .
To clarify , for PowerPC based Macs , this memory was called PRAM , but for Intel based Macs , <URL> . To show the contents of the NVRAM or even manipulate them , you can use the shell commando in Terminal . For info on usage , execute . If you just want to display the entire contents of the NVRAM , you can execute it with th parameter :
I updated my answer because all of it was wrong : You will want to use an applescript for your preference setups . Here is the code for some of them and screenshots of the actual plist so you get an idea of the options possible . IF this does not apply straight away , you might need to restart the computer . Do n't forget to save applescript as an Application . NOT script Trackpad/Mouse In here , it varies . It is either for mouse , for bluetooth mouse , and for trackpad The example above changes right click to be left click as well Keyboard Unfortunately , I could not find a preference for keyboard . I will keep on searching though . Dock This was just an example . Switch autohide with whatever option and YES with value or boolean . Booleans are YES and NO ( unlike in scripts " true " " false " ) I put a picture on the end so you can see all the possible options for all the options . Disable Dashboard I also could not find how to . Though it is presumably in Dock options : Mouse : Bluetooth Mouse
Since applications are just copied to the drive anywhere ( / Applications is simply a nice place for multi-user systems but apps run anywhere they land as long as it 's readable ) there is no mandatory place to record the installation . Have you considered using Time Machine to construct a history ? I use <URL> which will index all of your backups , so you can search and know the first backup that has that App . It 's not a true installation time , but it 's close within a week at worst if your backup runs at least that often . You 'll have to add some software that explicitly inventories your mac periodically to assemble such a list . Most of these apps are geared to remote management and not cost effective for one or a handful of macs .
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
I was going to chalk it up to the developer just being lazy and selecting the default value and tab-completing when creating their app . However , I tried it out for myself ( create a new iOS app project , edit the file and add the following new row ) : You can see that the first auto complete option for mode is , meaning the developer had to consciously choose the second option for it to be right sided as in your app . This supports stuffe 's conjecture that this is done because most users are right handed . The screenshot above are the options for iPad . The iPhone has the same set , except for the second one , which is absent . AFAIK , Apple does n't advocate the use of a specific orientation as a default . Their <URL> only say the following re : <URL> Launch your app in your supported orientation , regardless of the current device orientation . For example , if your game or media-viewing application runs in landscape only , it 's appropriate to launch your app in landscape , even if the device is currently in portrait . This way , if people start your application in portrait , they know to rotate the device to landscape to view the content . Support both variants of an orientation . For example , if your application runs only in landscape , people should be able to use it whether they 're holding the device with the Home button on the right or on the left . And , if people rotate the device 180 degrees while using your application , it 's best if you can respond by rotating your content 180 degrees . On iPad , strive to satisfy users ' expectations by being able to run in all orientations . The large iPad screen mitigates people 's desire to rotate the device to landscape to " see more . " And , because people do n't pay much attention to the minimal frame of the device or the location of the Home button , they do n't view the device as having a default orientation . This lack of awareness of an app 's default orientation leads people to expect apps to run well in the device orientation they 're currently using . As much as possible , your application should encourage people to interact with iPad from any side by providing a great experience in all orientations . So as you can see , they do n't advocate for any particular orientation and encourage the developer to support all orientations . Also see <URL> . However , <URL> uses an example with code for right-oriented apps ( i.e. , home button on the right ) . So another explanation -- apart from the developer 's own UX inclinations -- is a copy-paste effect :)
Ran into the same issue . Followed YouTube video of installation in order to figure out the following : Once the disc is booted , select Reinstall OS X . You will then reach the screen where you can not see the Continue button . Using your keyboard , press TAB followed by SPACE . You should then reach the User Agreement screen . Press TAB , TAB , TAB and SPACE . Click the Agree button which should be visible . Click the installation drive and press TAB , TAB and SPACE . This should get you to the point where Lion is installing .
Try to to go and search for . It 's the file that gets updated when you modify the display in ( I just tried ) . According to <URL> , it 's safe to delete it . So move it on your desktop and try to reboot .
If you mean the Recovery HD , then it means that you do n't have a Recovery HD that 's able to be booted into . Try booting with ⌘ R . If that fails , use ⌘ ⌥ R for Internet Recovery .
The trackpad getting stuck is also a well known symptom of a bulging battery in the MacBook Pros of this generation . I 'm dealing with this issue myself and am very annoyed about it too , because this 2007 Santa Rosa MBP I paid for is essentially the most lemon computer I 've ever owned ( at least four other hardware failures besides this one ) .
It 's not a huge effort to go through , but it does involve a little effort on your part . I have n't tried this myself ( though will try it shortly just out of interest ) , but the basic principle seems to be to make a . webarchive file and drag it into the signatures preference box . <URL> <URL> <URL> EDIT : so I went and tried this and it DOES work in the current version of Mail.app , on Snow Leopard . The trick is essentially ; a ) create a . webarchive of your desired signature . Bear in mind that any graphics you put in there need to be graphics that are out on the ' open web ' , rather than references to files on your own computer etc. . I think it 's this bit that catches a lot of people out . b ) Go into Mail and go through the motions of creating a new signature . In the Library/Mail/Signatures folder you 'll see Mail creating a new file with a guid-like filename ( eg 61F51203-5C18-4061-A8EF-F53B17C41476 . webarchive ) . Make a note of this filename ! c ) Close down mail , and replace the contents of that signature file with your webarchive file . The best way of doing that is ; paste your webarchive file into the same folder ( eg rob.webarchive ) , then highlight the new file that Mail created and press return - the filename should become selected for you.Press Apple-C to copy this filename , and then alter the filename ( eg add ' old - ' to the front of the name ) . Press Return to close the ' name editing ' session.Now select your own webarchive file ( eg rob.webarchive ) , and again press return to edit the name . Now Apple-V in the name you copied from the first file , and press Return to close the editing . d ) When you restart Mail , the new signature you 've made will be available . Gotchas include ; you 're linking to images , css files or whatever that are not available on the internet.you 're not composing your message in ' rich text ' form But I 've just been through this and even though I have no use whatsoever for a HTML signature , it does work . :-)
end question
start question
What kind of adaptor do I need to connect RJ45 / ethernet cable to my Macbook Pro Retina display ?
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
Make sure the old Apple TV Remote is out of Bluetooth range , then while in front of the Apple TV set top box press a button on the new remote . This should pair the remote to the Apple TV . If not , try pressing Volume Up and Menu simultaneously on both remotes for 2-3 seconds , new and old , then do the aforementioned steps again with the new remote .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
The new TVSJ Framework or the TVML wo n't work on my 3rd Gen Apple TV ? Apple said the 3rd gen Apple TV will not run tvOS when means you ca n't develop any app on that device . If you do want to develop , you can buy a 4th gen. Do I have to develop everything via iOS swift/Objective-C ? Nope , Apple TV runs tvOS which have its own SDK . But the frameworks are very similar . tvOS also got some of its own SDK which iOS do n't have . You do need to develop in Swift or Objective-C . Can I test/install my app without a paid developer membership ? Yes , Xcode 7 allows you to test app on device without paid account . Though to install app on Apple TV , you will need an USB-C cable .
Retina displays To user <URL> 's own words from the <URL> : ... which means : The pixels of this display are so small that from a normal working distance your retina can not discern those individual pixels . ( <URL> ) There is no industry standard for " retina display " . The term retina display is relative , as the definition follows the human eyes 's perception of a display 's sharpness . When the iPhone 4 was introduced , Steve Jobs made the following definition : At a distance of 10 " to the human eye ( or retina ) , a pixel density of 300PPI is the maximum that an eye can distinguish . Because this definition is relative , calling a display a retina display depends on two factors : pixel density distance between the human eye an the display Both the iPhone 4S and the new iPad have " retina displays " when you apply Steve Job 's definition . A mathematical explanation can be found in <URL> .
You 're looking for any 2.5 " SATA drive . I 'm not sure if the MacBooks came with SATA 3 ( 6 Gb/s ) or SATA 2 ( 3 Gb/s ) , so you should match whichever the installed drive is . ( There 's no harm in putting a SATA 3 drive in a machine that only supports SATA 2 , you just wo n't get the speed and you 'll pay more . ) You should be careful of 12.5 mm height drives - they wo n't fit in some Macs . Anything smaller should be fine . Some references : <URL> -- look in Chapter 3 for specifics on hard drive replacement <URL> -- has better pictures than Apple 's manual ( I think this is the right one )
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
There are several complicated and time-limited things that are causing apps like Tweetbot to very likely get all shut down by Twitter in the near future . My impression is the high price of <URL> not only reflects the high cost that the developers spent to make such a complicated and design intensive app , but also to discourage too many people from " trying " it out as well as a calculation that they need to make their investment back sooner rather than later due to the uncertainty of being dependent on Twitter 's API rule changes . Twitter is in the process of shutting down all third party apps that replicate what you see at <URL> in terms of showing you the timeline . <URL> In a nutshell - in the last 12 months , Twitter has been telling developers to not make apps like Tweetbot since they <URL> and the 100,000 user token limit is really making it impossible for a team of talented professionals to recoup their costs without charging for an app since you need way more than 100,000 users to make money on data or advertising . Twitter wants to make money , developers want to make money , so at the moment the development of great , free twitter apps is n't exactly a hotbed of innovation in 2012 like it was in the past . Many in the development community had assumed that Twitter would bend the rules when their app was n't ready , but with the Windows 8 release , they shut down the most popular client when it hit 100,000 user-tokens even though Twitter does n't even have a windows 8 client ( perhaps yet ) . When that happened , I imagine a lot of projects are being dropped or at least halted . Not only is Twitter putting hard limits on third party app growth , it also is getting more and more exacting in telling these devs <URL> ( with the implied threat that they will shut down those apps if they fail to comply to Twitter 's exact design standards which include serving all promotional content ) So , now that a brief back story is complete , here is your answer : The following OS X twitter clients have been viewed to broadly and/or fully support retina display Macs : <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> Both <URL> and <URL> have free downloads so you can try them both before buying . Check all of them as one is on sale now for half price and prices can change over time . All of the above render text with great precision and have all or many of the app 's graphics in retina . Of course the twitter stream has many non-retina people thumbnails , etc. . .
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
Two 27 " displays will ( obviously ) take up quite a bit of room . You 'll probably want to look for a desk that has built-in mounting points for your VESA arms ( or built-in VESA arms ) so you do n't have to hang the displays off the wall . ( If you want to rotate the monitor , Apple 's Thunderbolt displays do n't have any built-in rotation ability , so you 'll need an arm that does that , too . OS X 's Displays preferences are where you 'll go to set the rotation on the display . ) There are several different caddies for your MacBook ( such as the <URL> ) that will keep it out of the way of your displays .
I can buy a regular MBP , with a cheap HDD , open it , upgrade the RAM and replace the HDD with a SDD , all for a fraction of the price Apple would charge me . In addition , I still have Ethernet and a CD/DVD drive , in case I need one . As I said , you might need the retina , or you might just like it , both of which are perfectly reasonable points . I do n't , and I prefer to keep my money with me , upgrading my hardware when I need it , and at the price I choose to pay ( out of a range of options ) . Uh , and I also hate the lack of Ethernet port . To each their own .
Fixed it ! there was n't any problem with battery . just charged it with a charger ( not with usb ) and it started to work .
If you wanted to connect to two different networks you could use this . So say you had an internal network which you had your own computers all linked to but were not connected to the internet , you could use one port to connect to this network . Then you could connect the other port to a broadband router/modem and access the internet on your Mac Pro . It 's really more of an interest to businesses than domestic users . You could also use the second port to connect to Network Attached Storage ( NAS ) such as a MyBook World or similar . This would allow you to use the full bandwidth of one port for backups to disk while not affecting the speed on the other network . Backup interface in case one fails . You could have each interface connect to different switches on your network in case of a failure on one you still have access to the network on the other . There 's also something called <URL> which allows you to combine the ports to act as one port with twice the speed . However , this depends on your other network equipment supporting this mode .
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
Windows According to <URL> : Windows 7 by default starts up at 800 x 600 on the Retina MBP , Windows 8 defaults to 1024 x 768 . This behavior is n't specific to this system , the GeForce GT 650M does n't have native driver support in either OS at this point and these are the defaults for the standard VGA driver in both cases . Windows 7 wo n't expose any resolutions higher than 1600 x 1200 without an actual NVIDIA driver , while Windows 8 will let you select the full 2880 x 1800 panel resolution . This is a report about Windows via bootcamp . I do n't know how this differs from Windows being used in a virtual machine . It would probably also depend on the options that the VM software offers . Linux When using the NVIDIA drivers on Linux ( and on Windows too ) you can select the full native panel resolution ( 2880x1800 ) . You can also select any of a number of scaled resolutions which do n't look as sharp . In general , running at native resolution is actually less of a problem for Linux than it is in Windows and OS X because of the way it 's designed . There are no blurry fonts on 3rd party apps like on OS X and it is easier to set your DPI so that apps are scaled properly than on Windows ( it is set automatically in Linux ) .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
The Dell monitor came with a Mini DP connector , which was all that was needed to carry the image . It also came with a USB connector , which has then allowed me to use the Dell soundbar . The font smoothing on the Dell is not as good as on an official Apple monitor , which is somewhat annoying as the hardware is the same , it 's a software problem . When dragging a window from the laptop screen to the Dell screen , you see OSX change the algorithm it 's using to something more rubbish .
So ... unfortunately the answer is ... Yes , but there are ways around it ... All the apps you bought in country A are permanently assigned to your AppleID . Once you move to country B and you updated your details ( billing address ) you : still can use them you can not re-download them you can not update them you can not convert your music to iTunes Plus ( but still can listen , obviously ) There are two solutions to this : Switch Store 's country and update your billing details each time you want to get your apps up to date ( or re-download them ) . But this is a rather painful process , so a better solution is to ... Create a new AppleID with the billing details for the country B. Switching between AppleIDs is much easier and quicker than switching Store 's country and updating your billing address . Let me quote why it has to be this way : [ ... ] this how iTunes has been designed . So . It 's gon na be problematic , but nothing can be done really . :(
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
end question
start question
Is the i7 2.3 Ghz CPU significantly faster than the 2.2 one ?
Even in CPU-intensive tasks , the difference is going to be more of the " noticeable in synthetic benchmarks " variety , rather than " I see it in the real world " variety . I 'd save the money and put it first towards an SSD option , then more RAM . Processor speed is almost flat these days , so minor bumps are n't worth the money . My very aging MacPro got a new lease on life when I replaced the boot disk with an SSD earlier this year . There 's nothing better for improving perceived responsiveness .
You can not configure how fast Spotlight will index files . Normally , it should auto-throttle itself and not cause massive CPU usage ( unless fully rebuilding indexes or doing first-time indexing ) . If you run into trouble with Sophos and Spotlight , you could tell Sophos to ignore Spotlight 's metadata folder . Also , note that there a lot of grief about Sophos interfering with spotlight : <URL>
As described in <URL> to prevent the Mac from using the internal monitor the following command need to be run then restart .
The trackpad surface is the same on both the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro . It 's the iconic glass on metal design ( patent <URL> ) . The trackpad design and hardware has been the same since it 's introduction in 2008 with the new MacBooks .
It 's a real-time scanning process by <URL> that scans your computer 's running processes in the background . The parent process is so that when you accidentally kill the process , it gets restarted .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
Does the migration assistant work well across OS versions and CPU architectures ? Yes , this will work just fine . The best way to do it is to get a firewire cable to connect the two iMacs , boot the older iMac into <URL> , and let the installer on the new iMac perform the migration . I believe that Rosetta is n't installed by default , but when you try to launch a Power PC app you will be prompted to install it .
<URL> is the tool you need . You can install it with <URL> . You can monitor a series of processes by name by running the Bash script below . I 'm not quite sure how to turn this into a login item since requires superuser permissions . Run it as a script , in an Automator workflow , whatever :
The simple answer is no - in general the one camera only sends data to one app . The more complicated answer is that the API ( application programming interface ) that Apple publishes enforces this restriction . If a developer hooks into the hardware directly or there is a bug in the API , it is possible to share that stream . So for most Apps made by someone other than Apple , once the iSight is in use by one application , it is unavailable to other applications until the application releases the use of it or the application closes . User <URL> rightly points out that this is not the case for Facetime and Photobooth , where Apple is either using an undocumented or private API or accessing the hardware directly so that both apps can share the camera feed .
This sounds like Scroll Lock is somehow activated on your copy of Excel . IF you have a large keyboard with an F14 key , ShiftF14 can turn on and off Scroll Lock . If you do n't have such a keyboard , or access to such a keyboard , it gets more complicated . Microsoft support posted <URL> about the various methods of deactivating Scroll Lock . They either involve connecting a keyboard with a F14 key or removing your Excel preferences file .
You can install John Ford 's screenresolution utility via . Alternatively you can download and compile the <URL> . Once the utility is installed you can see all available resolutions via . Assuming the appropriate resolution is listed you can set you display with something like .
Encryption happens on-the-fly . If the data was written to the hard drive , then passed through an encryption algorithm that then deleted the written data and re-wrote it , encrypted , that would be hella inefficient , and would largely defeat the purpose . I think the answer to your question is no , but of course remember that if you 're going from a data set that 's not yet encrypted , then all of that data needs to be processed , so that initial process of reading , encrypting and re-writing data will have an effect .
There are quite a few commands which let you do this in Mac OS X : Cmd + Tab for switching applications Cmd + ` for switching windows within applications F3/F9 for Exposé ( shows all windows in a graphical way , on trackpads you can do a 4-finger swipe down ) F10 for showing windows of a specific application in Exposé F11 for showing desktop and shoving all other windows to the side , on a trackpad its 4 finger swipe up There is also Spaces which is like having multiple desktops , where you can switch to and fro . You can enable it in the prefrence pane in System Preferences and suit the keyboard shortcuts to you liking
OS 3.0 and above allows you to email out up to 5 photos . Go to your Camera roll . Select the roll you want . Tap Share icon ( bottom left ) Tap each photo you want to send via e-mail ( you should get a red check mark in each photo > Share count will increase to the number of photos selected ) . Tap " Share Icon " again A pop up " e-mail " message will appear All the photos you selected will appear in your e-mail message to send .
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
You can use <URL> to for example turn the right option into an extra modifier key for opening applications : See <URL> for more examples . If you have bought the Powerpack for <URL> , you can use workflows like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior :
Specifically , the Latitude app ( and other background location-updating apps ) register themselves for location updates " on significant location change " . How the phone knows the location has changed significantly is when the phone does a cell tower handoff . It 's moved enough that it 's out of range of the tower it was talking to and its service is handed to the next tower . At that time , if any apps are registered for location updates , the phone fires up its GPS , gets its coordinates , and feeds them to those apps . Those apps then get to do a LITTLE work with what they were told . When iOS 4 came out , I wrote a little app to play with this API . Basically it just sat in the background and recorded lat/lng for every update it got . Between my office and my house ( like 10 miles ) it got eight or nine sets of coordinates . That means eight or nine times ( call it once a mile or so ) that the phone has to fire up the GPS chip , listen for signals from outer space , and do something with them . That obviously takes up more electricity than if it did n't have to do that . Is it MUCH more ? You know what ? Not really . I charge my phone when it needs it ( rather than , say , nightly ) , and I did n't notice it needing it more than usual when my little app was running . So my guess is that Latitude wo n't be a major battery suck . But it 'll definitely suck some .
In order to get accurate processes , cpu usage and accumulative time , the user running should be root . This is not the case with , because it has the " set-user-ID-on-execution bit " ( suid ) set . Execute from your user terminal or if you trust your local users add the suid to the binary ( ) .
Yes , it supports up to 8GB of memory . Make sure that memory is 1066 MHz , not 1333 , or you 'll be unable to boot to MacOS . If you are unable to find 1066MHz DIMM , you could be able to re-flash the SPD chip of a 1333MHz DIMMs using a technique I described at the <URL> . Note that not all 1333MHz chips can be flashed .
<URL> has the functionality you are asking for . It is available starting at USD$ 18 for a single license .
end question
start question
Is it possible to download a virus via iPad safari browser ?
Presently there are n't any known Viruses for iOS . The security exploit that you mentioned , the PDF exploit and the TIFF image exploit before it , were patched shortly after the exploit was made public . Is it impossible for a virus to sneak through ? Absolutely not , though if you 're running the most recent iOS release the chances you 'll get a virus or have your iOS device be exploited are extremely unlikely . There 's a large community of people who actively seek exploits for non-malicious reasons ( Jailbreaking ) , and Apple is always quick to patch the security hole . As a rule of thumb , for iOS and other operating systems , keep your device up to date via the built in update mechanisms and you 're exposure to security vulnerabilities will be quite low . In fact , the most recent iOS update 5.1.1 included a <URL> . Though this is n't a virus , it 's an example of the cat-and-mouse game that Apple and the security community continually play .
If you are virtualizing a version of Windows , I would recommend you do use anti-virus software . Although Windows is running in a VM , it still is Windows and is vulnerable to viruses . A good choice of anti-virus software for Windows is <URL> which is free from Microsoft . ( Note that : " Your PC must run genuine Windows to install Microsoft Security Essentials . " ) If you are virtualizing a Linux distro , there is <URL> , so I would recommend anti-virus as well . There are several listed on <URL> , including <URL> ( Free ) and <URL> ( Free ) .
The iPad seems to limit its history to a week , which is presumably an acknowledgement of the limited RAM and storage in comparison to a traditional computer . Adding bookmarks for desired/frequent sites is the only way to make sure they come up easily . There is no practical limit to the number of bookmarks , and you could easily shove all of those bookmarks in a folder you never visit directly .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
Not directly to iBooks , no . But you can email it to whatever email account you have set up on the iPad . Then , using the Open With button you can send it to iBooks or any compatible app on your iPad . I do this all the time with whitepapers I find on my work computer that I want to read on the train . Alternatively , I send my self a link to the file if it 's not behind a paywall or lead generation form .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
The <URL> will do this . There are a number of other solutions mentioned at <URL> .
I would install aspell with a package manager like brew and then run that on the . tex file . Unless I 'm mistaken emacs has support for aspell built-in . You can also turn on spell checking in your terminal ( iterm2 ) or emacs GUI .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
Check out the command . You can get detailed information about its use by reading its man entry An in-depth article on the command is <URL> .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
Presently there are n't any known Viruses for iOS . The security exploit that you mentioned , the PDF exploit and the TIFF image exploit before it , were patched shortly after the exploit was made public . Is it impossible for a virus to sneak through ? Absolutely not , though if you 're running the most recent iOS release the chances you 'll get a virus or have your iOS device be exploited are extremely unlikely . There 's a large community of people who actively seek exploits for non-malicious reasons ( Jailbreaking ) , and Apple is always quick to patch the security hole . As a rule of thumb , for iOS and other operating systems , keep your device up to date via the built in update mechanisms and you 're exposure to security vulnerabilities will be quite low . In fact , the most recent iOS update 5.1.1 included a <URL> . Though this is n't a virus , it 's an example of the cat-and-mouse game that Apple and the security community continually play .
I 'm assuming you set up Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 5 yourself , as it 's not a System default . If you use Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 then you can drag a marquee round the item you want , or even use Space afterwards to grab the entire floating widget , examples below ... Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 Note the hard edges &amp; visible background . Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 followed by Space then clicking the desired ' window ' / widget . Note the soft edges with shadows
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How can I delay audio in an mp4 file ?
You may use the free app <URL> which supports this feature .
As asked and answered on <URL> , there 's an easier way to do this that does n't involve making a new file system in a disk image file : Move your existing file aside , commit that move , then move it back using the case you 'd like it to maintain and commit . Done . Example :
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
You can edit in a text editor after converting it to XML : Then add entries like this to the array : You can use to see the UTIs of file types and something like to see the bundle identifiers of applications . You can apply changes to by restarting . Logging out and back in is n't enough . I also use <URL> though . I have saved a file like this ( with about 100 lines ) as : I have a launchd agent that runs automatically when is changed . You can normally use filename extensions ( like ) instead of a UTIs ( like ) to specify file types . converts the extensions to UTIs that also apply to other extensions ( like ) . For some extensions like and , the UTI depends on what application registered the extension first . The latest version of ( 1.5.1 ) only includes source code , but <URL> also includes an installer .
<URL> can do this . Select " Streaming/Transcoding Wizard " from the File menu . Choose " Transcode/Save to file " . On the next page click " Choose " and open your AC3 file . On the next page tick " Transcode audio " and choose " MPEG 4 Audio " and choose the desired bitrate . Click " Next " , choose " MPEG 4 / MP4 " , click " Next " again and " Choose ... " where to save the file . " Next " and " Finish " . The file VideoLAN creates has the extension . mp4 , change it to . m4a and there you go .
Generally , yes , since most applications are installed through copying the application from a DMG file into your Applications folder . However , this is not always the case , since applications can also be installed through the use of OS X Installer or a 3rd party installer . As a rule of thumb , if an application was installed through an installer , copying the from the Applications folder wo n't be enough . If you wish to backup an application that came from an installer , you will usually require that installer . If you have a valid license for the software ( e.g. Photoshop ) you can redownload the installer from Adobe 's website and use that to install it . When you entered your key into the application , it will have created a hardware-linked key that ensures the software can not be copied to a new computer without re-entering the software key . The easiest way is just to use the installer itself to reinstall the software . In addition , do n't forget about the additional files that may be created when you run the application . For example , files in the Application Support folder . You can use an complete app remover such as <URL> to list the files that may be related to the app . In this case , there was a preference file in that holds DaisyDisk 's user preferences . Copying this file to a different computer in the same place should keep the preferences . On the other hand , cache files such as those in are not usually necessary to be backed-up/copied .
No , you ca n't do this unless the website allows it . The uploaded file will use the name of the file that you uploaded , and on iOS this is always . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
If the problem you 're experiencing is that the iPad connections trigger a New iPad activation dialog , you can turn this off by typing this terminal command when iTunes is not running : You can turn on the new iPad Activation dialog with this command : Remember , iTunes can not be running when either of these commands is run .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
The Tags feature in Finder1 already has a keyboard shortcut which can be activated whilst in Quick Look . Press ⌘ ⇧ T to set a tag on the currently selected file . To set a custom shortcut ... Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts . Click the + button to add a new shortcut . Set the Application to Finder.app , and the Menu Title to Tags ... . Set your keyboard shortcut and press Add . 1 As this is a feature of Finder , not Quick Look , the modal popup may be behind the Quick Look window .
No , GarageBand can not do this . You should investigate the commercial products <URL> and <URL> . Also have a look at <URL> by SuperMegaUltraGroovy . It provides a good method for assisting a person in transcribing by ear .
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
After doing a Google quest for a free audio player I found <URL> . It has a great UI and Mac look and calls itself " A Better Music Experience " . Is anyone aware of this application ? How do you feel about it ? After a little test drive with the software I can say that it really is an enjoyable experience and the announced smart shuffle is a nice feature . It uses the iTunes library so you can just press play and you 'll be fine .
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
Yes , this would be known . First , the old Apple TV wo n't be getting the update ( since its now iOS based ) , and therefore wont support airplay . Not sure of any workarounds for an old Apple TV that use the actual AirPlay standard . A hack may exist after 4.2 has been out for a while , but I think most people decided to just move to the new Apple TV instead .
What version of CorelDRAW ? What 's the workflow ? . CDR is a proprietary format , so I 'm not aware of any proper supported exporters . The <URL> reverse-engineered the format , and claims to have the best support . But since recent versions of CorelDRAW can <URL> , I think you would get the best results to just save it as . ai and import it into CorelDRAW .
This code will do it for you : Note that stripping the last three will get rid of the extension . If that is n't what you want to happen , let me know in a comment .
Yes , you can buy a SIM-lock free iPhone 4 , such as the ones that get sold in the UK or in Belgium and use them anywhere else in the World where iPhones are supported by local providers . Be aware that the UK phone ships with a different electrical plug . Language settings can be set from within the iOS preferences . I have mine running with multiple different keyboard layouts ; and you can also set the main language of the device , just as you can set the language of any MacOS device to any installed language ( usually quite a few ) . The nice thing is , that usually all apps also respect that language choice if they provide translations .
end question
start question
Change spotlight 's calculator to degrees ?
Simply add a d to the trigonometric function and it should work . Example : sin ( x ) > sind ( x ) . sin ( 1 ) = 0.8414 ... sind ( 1 ) = 0.0174 ...
You can do so in System Preferences . Open the Bluetooth panel , select your Magic Mouse and click the cog wheel at the bottom to select " Rename " from the context menu .
If you want to change the appearance of all the slides : While creating a new document , choose any template . From the menubar , select View > Show Master Slides . Select the layout you want to edit from the navigator pane on the left . On the Toolbar , click on Inspector ( " i " icon ) . Choose the second tab icon ( slide icon ) in the Inspector window . Click on Appearance . Here you can specify any background for the slide . It can be an image , a colour , a gradient or a tint . If you just want to change the appearance of the current slide , follow steps 4 to 6 . To change the style of text for all the slides : Follow steps 1 to 4 . Choose the capital " T " icon in the Inspector window . Select the text whose colour , font , etc. you want to change . In the inspector window , there are various properties like text colour , character spacing , etc. which you can change . You can change the font from the toolbar . To change the style of text for the current slide , just follow the steps without opening the master slide .
Currently this is how the Apple Configurator works - it does n't have a provision to load a certificate but instead generates self-signed ones automatically . If I run across a way to hack this , I 'll link it here , but if you need profiles to arrive with a signed certificate look into Lion server or another MDM solution . In practice - you only see the certificat warning when you are sitting in frot of your Mac and connecting devices via USB . I 'm not sure what additional layer of securyity a signed certificate can provide in this case . It 's not like you are connecting to some remote server when these profiles get installed .
A list of iOS browsers which allow user agent switching : <URL> ( $ 1.99 ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( $ 0.99 , plus free <URL> ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( Free ) <URL> ( Free ) SkyFire ( $ 2.99 for <URL> , $ 4.99 for <URL> ) <URL> ( Free )
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
This would select the next track and set the rating of the previous track to two stars :
Open the finder window and hit cmd + j. Select the settings you want and then at the bottom hit Use As Defaults .
Out of the box there is no themeing capability in Mac OS X , you can however modify some of the colours used by Mac OS X in the Appearance Preference Pane in System Preferences . If you 're serious about themeing however there are 3rd party applications you can get to help with this : <URL> - manages and changes icons . <URL> - does most everything else . If you 're interested in available themes that work with ThemePark check out <URL> Otherwise a fairly good resource is the forum at <URL> .
Yes this is normal , Intel lists a " Thermal Junction " for the <URL> at 105 Degrees Celsius . This CPU information is referenced from details in EveryMacs ' <URL> . Modern CPUs pretty much detect when there is a temperature problem and will shutdown if it detects that its overheating . Large Compiling tasks can take the CPU to its limits , which is causing your MacBook Pro to have to dissipate way more heat that it does normally , hence why its hot and blaring its fans to keep it from overheating . This happens pretty much across the board with most Apple laptops when you push the CPU 's to 100 % for an extended period of time . Ear plugs , a laptop stand , headphones , or a <URL> desktop ( with whisper quiet fans ) may be good accessories if you plan on compiling a lot of software packages on a regular basis .
You can continue to use your MacBook Pro by always having it plugged into mains power . This approach will work and work well . I use an older MacBook showing " Service Battery " at home . It is always plugged into mains power . The computer works well and does everything my family need of it . Ask Apple for a Quote Before buying a new laptop , ask Apple how much a new battery would cost . The cost will be significantly lower than a brand new computer . Replace the Battery Yourself Alternatively , <URL> but Apple do not recommend this . Apple do not recommend this because incorrectly fitted batteries can be dangerous and they can be a fire hazard .
selection color as in the highlight text color or the selection box color ? If it 's the appearance , you can not help it , unless you 're willing to pay some money to change it ; ( Flavours $ 19.90 ) Flavours looks really good and you can get the trial for free to give it a go . If it is the Highlight color you are talking about , completely customizeable in colors !
The option is hidden behind a long/hard press - so not easily discoverable : Tap on the Activity app from your Apple Watch 's Home screen . Swipe left until you see the Move ring . Press firmly on the screen . Tap on Change Move Goal . Adjust your move goal to whatever you 'd like and tap Update . Source : <URL> The calorie goal is the only configurable goal .
Go to System Preferences - > Speech - > Select the " Text to Speech " tab , then choose the voice you want from the " System Voice " drop down . On my Lion machine ( not sure whether it 's the same on Mountain Lion ) , I had to click " Customize ... " from the dropdown then select " Daniel " to download from the " English ( United Kingdom ) " section .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
If you can already log in on an account with administrator privileges ( normal OS X account ) and know its login password , you can reset the passwords of other admin accounts in System Preferences > Accounts . If you ca n't , you can reset the passwords of admin accounts in single user mode . See <URL> . If you actually mean the password of the root user , it can be changed from / System/Library/CoreServices / Directory Utility.app / , but you have to be logged in on an admin account and know its login password .
No . To my knowledge , the native VPN client on Mac OS X does not have functionality for changing your password . There is some code in directory authentication that can do this , but in order to change a password used for VPN , you 'll likely have to log into a web-based password utility that 's bound to the directory the VPN is authenticating to . Additionally , those ehow instructions are quite vague . It looks a little like the system is authenticating to a VPN at login , much like how OS X can authenticate to a directory service at login . Perhaps it is possible to connect to a VPN prior to login on Windows ? On Mac , on the native client , this is not possible : VPN sessions happen AFTER a user has logged in . Now , if your VPN is authenticating to a Directory Service used for login , it may be possible to change this password inside loginwindow ( as changing your account password ) .
You may be able to use Symbolic Links to create a link between where Anki stores its files and a folder within DropBox . Information on how to create symbolic links and how they differ from Aliases can be found here : <URL>
There are two ways to do this ... Modify the Password in Keychain You can do this under Keychain Access . You will find all your saved Wi-Fi networks under the " System " keychain in the " Passwords " category . Double clicking on the SSID ( mine are redacted for security ) will bring up a dialog box with the details for that particular Wi-Fi network . From here , you can enter in a new password . <URL> Delete the Network &amp; Rejoin You can also solve the issue by deleteing the network and rejoining it . Simply go into your System Preferences > Network and select your Wi-Fi Adapter . Click on the Advanced ... button and you will be able to delete your Wi-Fi Network . Just rejoin and enter in the good password . <URL> <URL>
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
end question
start question
How to tell if the MBA ( Mavericks ) is connected to the 2.4 or 5 ghz network ?
Option + Wifi Menu Hold the <URL> down and select your WiFi icon in the menu bar ( & #x 2325 ; + ) . Additional information in the menu includes " Channel : " and ( 5 GHz ) or ( 2.4 GHz ) for the current radio settings . As seen in Yosemite : Wireless Diagnostics.app You can get even more information from System Information . But I usually open the <URL> ( in Applications > Utilities folder ) . Choose > to get more detailed WiFi networking or scan for better channels , check for interference , etc. .
The reliable way is to get the carrier to unlock it . In the US - this means Verizon 's are sold unlocked in the US whether you have a contract or not . AT&amp;T 's are locked , but they have a <URL> once your contract is fulfilled . Sprint 's <URL> . T-Mobile 's are <URL> when they start selling iPhone . Cheapest depends heavily on your specific contract details and if you want to risk paying a third party to do something the cell carriers do not like . You could always look for a jailbreak and circumvent the lock , but between paying off your contract early or selling your locked phone and buying one that is legitimately unlocked is an easy , and simply about time and money now that unlocked iPhones are mainstream in the US . I suggest dealing locally in selling and buying an iPhone - connect on craigslist or wherever and meet in an Apple store so that you can check the serial number - be safe in a public space , etc. . .
According to <URL> in the Apple Support Communities , I 'm needed to create a mobile account on my server : In Workgroup Manager , select your username in the list of users . Click the Preferences button . Click the Mobility button . Turn it on using your desired settings . Thanks to <URL> for pointing me to the right direction .
Even in CPU-intensive tasks , the difference is going to be more of the " noticeable in synthetic benchmarks " variety , rather than " I see it in the real world " variety . I 'd save the money and put it first towards an SSD option , then more RAM . Processor speed is almost flat these days , so minor bumps are n't worth the money . My very aging MacPro got a new lease on life when I replaced the boot disk with an SSD earlier this year . There 's nothing better for improving perceived responsiveness .
Prerequisites : -- admin account &amp; password -- AFP-share &amp; server IP-address Boot the Computer to Recovery Mode . Open Terminal in the Utilities menu At the prompt enter : Create a sub-directory in Volumes as a mount point for your time machine share : Enter Enter . pwd should show / Volumes/TimeMachine Mount the network share with your admin loginname &amp; password : If your password contains wonky characters like :@ \ / use <URL> to <URL> them Enter : . Note the exact name of your sparsebundle . Enter : . You may enter the first letters of the sparsebundle name and then hit TAB . Hitting tab should auto-complete the Time Machine sparsebundle name . It may not look the same as above as it escapes spaces and special characters . After auto-completing the name , hit return . If you return to the prompt the sparsebundle has been opened . Enter and ⏎ and quit Terminal . Example steps 3-11 : Select and click Continue . After a search it should show you the Time Machine Backups directory as a volume that contains your backup . Select that ( in my example ' Time Machine Backup ' ) and click Continue . In the next screen you will see all the backups that you can restore from listed by time and date . Select the backup you want to restore and continue and finally choose your destination disk :
You could use the mount command from terminal : This will give a print out of everything mounted on the system and details about what protocol was used and by who . Here 's in example output :
One way to do this to use the terminal command : from a script . Here 's a simple Python script that will do this : and this runs fine from inside Keyboard Maestro or TextExpander after you define a single keystroke to run it . You can run these commands from AppleScript instead - I just get tired of trying to guess the right syntax for everything ...
All iPhone models are offered with and without a carrier lock , also 4 , 4s ( which I write this from , I never bought or will buy a locked one ) and the newer ones . In Europe it is a must to offer unlocked versions , I do n't know about the policy in the country you live . The lock is on demand of the carrier , not of Apple .
Open your desired user Home folder in Finder ( ShiftCommand + H ) and select View > Show View Options . There should be a checkbox for toggling the Library folder .
There is absolutely nothing wrong . That is how your Apple is suppose to be . / Applications , / Library , and / System are managed and used primarily by the OS . Your files should be in your user folder / Users/john for example . If you want you can create another folder in your home folder ( user folder ) called Applications or Programs or " whatever " and put third party apps in there . It is your choice but you should n't remove any applications from the / Application folder should they automatically be installed there or be default programs , doing so will result in issues .
Nothing is safe in security terms , all that you can say is that there is a risk and try to quantify it . For Java there are often exploits for Java applets and at some time Apple found that they and Oracle could not produce a fix quick enough to stop a well known exploit . Apple then put out a change to Safari to block all Java applets if the Java version was below a given version and this version limit is increased regularly . The latest Apple-provided Java installer as of 17 Oct 2014 is <URL> . It fixes the vulnerabilities listed <URL> by providing a version of Java version 1.6.0 _ 65 . Also see this <URL> There will be vulnerabilities in that but Apple have so far decided none of those known to them are serious enough to block the use of this version or produce a new version .
The shares shown are the one you set up in the Stocks app . Open * Stocks Tap the i on the bottom right corner Delete or add new shares Those will be the ones shown in the notifications screen .
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
That should get you the current firmware version of your SSD . TPVABBF0 = has update TPSABBF0 = does not have update
You should be able to see the OS version by going to System Preferences > Startup Disk . If it does n't show in Startup Disk for some reason , you can run the following command in Terminal : If your DVD is not called " Mac OS X Install DVD " then you 'll need to replace that part of the command with the actual disc name .
Only if the application itself supports this . If it does , it will have config files that allow you to specify either an IP address to bind to , or an interface name to bind to . You would then find out your internal IP address by checking the Network control panel or the interface by checking ifconfig through the terminal . As far as I know .
Turns out it needs to be on the internet initially , in order to set up Home Sharing . But once Home Sharing is set up , it can access content on your Mac as long as your Mac is on the same local network , and has iTunes running .
As of July 21 , 2016 , there is a pre-release available of MAMP PRO 4 which includes OpenSSL 1.0.2 , get the pre-release here : <URL>
No . IPhone will use the cellular connection for push notifications at any time , unless is turned off . Also , if the lock screen is on , then iPhone is connected to the cellular network , not wifi . IPad is always connected to wifi , lock screen or no .
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
end question
start question
Restore from CCC or Time Machine ?
Time Machine would be the most reliable of the two . CCC is brilliant for cloning to the same hardware , but it 's not really meant to cross to newer hardware , as it has no ' installer ' process to prepare for the new hardware/OS drivers . However , a better option may be ... You can migrate directly from the old Mac to the new , as part of the " welcome to your new Mac " introduction , if both can be on the network at the same time .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
Time Machine backs up an entire drive/partition/volume unless you specifically remove files and folders under " Options " . All User accounts are included unless you uncheck them in Options . All of this info is available in your Finder Help menu .
If minimizing windows to the application icon has not been enabled , you can unminimize all windows with a script like this : This script would unminimize the last minimized window shown in the Dock : This would unminimize all windows in the current application : You can <URL> by for example using FastScripts or Alfred .
22 hours is very long indeed . I have encrypted a 1TB drive in less time before . The encryption is handled by a " live background process " . " This process continues seamlessly across reboots . The logical volume remains usable at all times . " from man page > diskutil > encryptVolume Maybe this daemon hangs or simply halted because the drive is not mounted ( which is fine ) . So you should just re-mount it again . Alternatively , I would try I restart the daemon by simply restarting the computer . Once the Time Machine backup is mounted again , the daemon will continue encrypting the drive . Checking the encryption progress using diskutil You can check the status of the encryption by using the command : In the nested tree you will see a Logical Volume Family which is currently being encrypted . If you drive is being encrypted , you should see the entry .
The simplest way is for you to note the date and time of your last backup in Time Machine on OS X Mountain Lion . You can get back to it at any point in time in the future just by restoring to the backup with that date/time ( this will remain on the disk as long as you have adequate space so that Time Machine does not delete these older versions ) . You can easily find this date and time by navigating into the " Backups.backupdb " folder on the Time Machine disk and looking at the timestamp for the " Latest " folder ( it is actually a link - so you can even open it to see the latest backup folder name with the date and time ) . If you do not wish to note down the date and time of your last backup with OS X Mountain Lion , the next simplest way is to change the computer name either on the Mac on OS X Mavericks before you do your first Time Machine backup on it or on the Time Machine backup disk for the older backup . In either case , this will make Time Machine create a new folder with the new machine name on the disk and it will do a full backup the first time ( so you need adequate disk space to hold almost two copies of your Mac ) . This way , you can restore from the old or new backup in the future ( if you rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk , then you would have to revert that to do a full restore of the old system ) . To change your computer name , go to System Preferences > Sharing and edit the Computer Name : text . OR To rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk instead , use the following command in Terminal.app : Substitute the following in the above command before running it : < TMDiskName > is the name of the Time Machine volume name < ComputerName > is the current computer name ( which you will continue using for OS X Mavericks ) < OSXMountainLionBackupComputerName > is the name of the snapshot for you to do a full restore from in the future ( you would have to rename it back using a similar command as above before the full restore )
According to information from <URL> , the answer is no , it will not support encrypted Time Machine backups to network-attached storage . They 're specifically mentioning Time Capsules and Airport Extremes . The issue Paul Eccles mentioned looks to be related to whether you can backup to NAS with Time Machine at all without regard to encryption status . The link referenced also seems to indicate you ca n't use Time Machine encryption on direct-attached storage , but that may be because you can use Disk Utility to encrypted a direct-attached volume instead . Commenter Fracai calls out the classic standby of creating an encrypted disk image , storing that on network-attached storage , and mounting that for your Time Machine backups . I 'll also point out the discussion on that page ( which is slightly inaccurate , but mostly on ) wherein commenter TrumpetPower ! cautions encrypting backups . This is a point worth repeating here . I 'll rephrase ( more precisely and accurately ) what TrumpetPower ! wrote : The purpose of a backup is to preserve availability of data . The purpose of encryption is to prevent availability of data without the key used to encrypt the data . If you encrypt a backup , you add complexity to a process designed to simplify and preserve access to your information . With complexity comes increased probability of failure . Thus , the chance that you lose access to your backed-up data goes up . Do yourself a favor and make sure you understand when and why you might wish to encrypt your backups and think hard about how you 'll ensure you have access to your encryption key when it counts .
Short answer , no it 's not . As with most of the file transfer protocols ( SMB , FTP , NFS ) it transfers data in plain text .
Yes - assuming you have OS X server running on the Mac Pro , you could share each drive under a different name and enable both for Time Machine backups . You could then configure some portion of the machines to hit share A and the rest to hit share B . Since each computer stores backup contents in a sparse disk bundle , you could even shift a backup or two to the other drive and then reconfigure things if your initial allocation was n't working after some time passes .
Finally , I decided to give a try by myself . I had no particular problem , I just followed the well known procedure of backup to Time Capsule , interrupt , and restore the USB drive to the Time Capsule sparsebundle related to the machine . All my previous backup , have ben recognized . However , for 500GB of data I had to wait for two days to be completed . Apparently , by matching the two . sparsebundle size , the data seemed to be transferred in a reasonable time from 4 to 7 hours . For the rest , it just seems that disk utility stopped doing nothing for the rest of the time . Even the USB drive went in stand by mode for almost two days . Then , after two days , it just stop informing that the restore went fine .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
You can add files and folders to the exclusion list - this only prevents future backups from copying those files . You can script these exclusion lists with terminal in Lion using . You can delete all versions of files and folders using the Time Machine interface . This is a somewhat manual practice . Apple does n't support ( there 's no built in setting ) to set an arbitrary time limit for backups . Once the drive fills , TimeMachine will delete enough backups to start the current backup and then warn you that files have been deleted . It will do the deletion silently if you do n't ask to be warned in the preference pane . You have to monitor the drive if you ca n't afford Time Machine automatically deleting files when it needs more room .
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
Spotlight does n't index Time Machine backups or the Trash . It does do external disks but certain conditions have to be met for it to do them .
It wo n't matter as far as the software goes since Lion runs the migration script one time only on your Snow Leopard data whether you migrate it in from a backup or it 's there when you do the upgrade to Lion . From a human standpoint , I would encourage you to make a " test " account ( pick a different short name to prevent conflict or confusion when migrating your " real " account later ) Updating and testing Lion lets you build confidence the Lion is working on your repaired hardware . Run Snow Leopard updates to 10.6.6 at least to get the App Store if needed Install Lion Run all updates Test Lion in the test user . Once you 're happy it works , migrate in your user data . There 's no right or wrong here - so do whatever makes the most sense to you . You 've had a rough spell with the first upgrade / hardware failure - no need to over complicate things unless you really feel more steps is better .
Time Machine backs up everything and restores everything . When Time Machine backs up , it first copies all of the files exactly from your hard drive ( and any other disks ) to your chosen backup disk . Nothing is excluded unless explicitly specified . This answers your question concerning losing your Python modules . After first backup , Time Machine hard links your files to another backup folder named by time and date . This means that it creates a duplicate of all of the files it created on first backup to the next backup without taking up more space . It 's a lot like an alias or shortcut , but the difference between the original and a hard linked file is indistinguishable in Finder . Therefore , it efficiently changes all the files that were actually changed since first backup . Using Command-R to bring up Disk Utility from Recovery options , formatting the disk , and restoring from Time Machine was painless and I did not lose a single file . Since it copies all files exactly , it will transfer your " corrupt " Office files to the new drive . However , you can select Repair Disk to clear up any issues with permission errors , etc. . But , honestly , I do n't think that it 's worth restoring from Time Machine unless you 've tried <URL> .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
As you said that <URL> did n't work fine for you then I search in web and find : <URL> it disables the automatic backup function of Time Machine and installs its own launchd daemon . <URL> ( free software ) allows you to specify a schedule for Time Machine to run . it changes the one-hour interval of Time Machine backups . You can change the interval or decide to make daily , weekly and monthly backups .
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
You can drill down into the Time Machine folder hierarchy just like any other disk ... [ Time Machine Drive ] > Backups.backupd > [ Computer name ] > Latest - then you 're into the old hierarchy as it was on your previous system . if Latest has been overwritten by the new system then you 'd have to dig by date or use search .
end question
start question
How can I stop loading external images in OS X Mail ?
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
From the man page : This action creates a valid DVD-Video structure that can be burned to a DVD - / + R ( W ) with help of mkisofs version 1.11 a27 or later <URL> Honestly I have never used this tool on Mac OS X , if you want to do some dvd ripping and this keeps frustrating you , <URL> is pretty good , or you can even use the built in <URL> to do a image backup of said DVD .
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
You can only move spaces which are non-active . For example , lets say you have spaces 1 and 2 . If space 1 is active , you can not move it . You first have to select space 2 then you can move space 1 to a different monitor .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
You could do it from the command line and/or write a script with the relevant services : And for ssh ( remote login ) for example Bringing them back up then with ( instead of stop )
In essence , you want both objects on both slides , overlapping , then animate the opacity between the two with Magic Move . This recreates a Magic Move pretty accurately . See <URL>
<URL> and <URL> are both application suites for recording audio from any input , include the system audio . They 're not fee , but their trials might suffice . A simpler solution would be <URL> which acts like an output to which system audio can be sent , then used as an input source in any audio recording program , even quicktime . If you want to be able to hear sound from your speakers/headphones , you 'll need to run the sound flower bed app , which takes sound flower 's audio coming in from your system , and forwards it to your speakers/headphones while still being able to use it .
Log into profile manager as an administrator using Safari and set up a profile for a user to change mail settings . <URL> You will want to spend time making sure DNS and SSL are correctly installed - starting with making a self-signed certificate if you do n't want to pay for a real SSL cert for your server . Here 's what to look for when you want to test setting IMAP settings for users . As you might be able to see - pick a user , then edit their settings and finally choose email .
wrt the issues above : Yes you can . Very effectively . Just be aware that your Django sites wo n't integrate into Server App 's GUI unless you restrict yourself to python 2.7 ; Apache mod_wsgi ; no virtualenvs . Not if you wish to proxy to a wsgi server like Gunicorn , because when you save the Website 's panel , OS X Server will sanitise some of your essential Apache directives and you will lose control over how your Django static files , for example , are served . OS X Server has a particular execution and configuration model in mind and it does a good job of managing websites that accord with that model - but at the cost of flexibility . I know that people successully deploy Django using Apache 's mod_wsgi , but that comes with severe limitations . As in 2 . The section of the plist for your web app in OS X Server 's directory is all-or-nothing . e.g. . You ca n't Include a in the right place for it to have effect . Not with Apache mod_wsgi . No . OS X Server 3.2.1 uses Apache 2.2 . Proxies via UDS was not included in Apache until later . ( Perhaps you could have Apache proxy to Nginx ( via a TCP port ) and , in turn , proxying to Gunicorn via each Django site 's own UDS ... if you thought there was a compelling reason . ) Yes . The approach I took : Put your application 's Apache file in OS X Server 's directory where it will be left alone by the Server app . Forget about trying to use the Server GUI and ' binding ' web apps to sites through its Advanced settings window . A nice idea but ... Use virtualenv ( wrapper ) to set up the different python and package versions for a more future-proof approach ... OS X Server 4 on Yosemite coming up ! Example code : . conf for Django virtual server This is adapted directly from the file that OS X Server generates from its GUI with these main differences : is off by default . prevents the Alias directive from being ignored . I found that , when including this directive using the Apple-recommended web app . plist section , the Included lines were in the wrong place to have the desired effect . your SITENAME and PORT : LaunchDaemon plist for Gunicorn wsgi server your SITENAME ; REVERSED_SITENAME and PORT : Snippet from the OS X Server 's Shows virtualenv paths specified by the virtualenvwrapper environment variables Snippet from the Fabric automation file Shows : The target paths - the directories where your configuration files will end up ; The commands to activate the Django site in the final steps in deployment
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
Open Mission Control and just click on the Downloading Xcode icon . This will pause it . Clicking again will resume .
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
You do NOT need to install a third party app . Both Google Chrome and Firefox support this functionality . ( ok , technically these are third party apps , but lets assume you are not using safari . ) Chrome : Open gmail in chrome . In the address bar next to the " bookmark star " you should see a grey diamond . Click on the diamond Select " use gmail " . If you do not see the gray diamond , follow the instructions below . If you made a mistake and selected " No " and you really wanted to select " Use Gmail " With Chrome open , copy and paste this into your address bar at the top : Under the Ignored protocol handlers section , Click on X to the right to delete . Close and open Gmail . Answer the question correctly this time . :) Source : <URL> <URL> Firefox : See @Am1rr3zA answer on this question . <URL>
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
One can do this . The following shows what I 've found ... Individual emails reside in a directory , typically something like the following : as " . emix " files readable by any text editor . " . emix " files have a sequential numbering by mails received by one 's itself rather than the particular mailbox , something like : The " . emix " files have clearly marked identifiers of their content . An abridged " . emix " file follows : : So , given all of this one needs to : Identify which email one wants to read ( I can use date and a specific email directory ) ; Import the text of the email into Mathematica ; Parse the required information using the appropriate identifiers in the " . emix " file . A little cumbersome , but workable .
You can use an Automator Workflow . Something like this : Sort Finder Items step will sort image names descending ( IMG_0003.jpg , IMG_002.jpg , IMG_001 . jpg ) . Make Sequential step will rename them sequentially ( IMG_0001.jpg , IMG_0002.jpg , ... ) . Copy Finder Items step is optional , just to be sure not to mess with original files .
The first thing you should try is installing the <URL> . If that does n't replace those files then you 'd have to reinstall OS X over your existing install . However , since you 're already messing around inside the System folder , you may be interested in trying to copy those files from your Recovery HD partition . To do this , you need to mount the Recovery HD , then mount the Base System image on it . Mount the Recovery HD in Terminal with this command : Mount the BaseSystem.dmg with this command : You can then try copying the files from the " Mac OS X Base System " disk image to your system folder . After copying , make sure the owner/permissions are correct ( running Disk Utility 's repair permissions would be a good idea ) . I have n't tested this , but the file sizes of each is the same in both the Base System image and the full install of OS X , so it seems likely they 're the same .
end question
start question
How do I download folders through FTP in Terminal ?
is the closest you can get with the included FTP binary . You have to mkdir and cd/lcd and then get all the files than match a pattern like The toggle may come in handy . FTP works within a directory , not on directories as containers of files . If you absolutely had to get the job done and ftp was the only tool you could use - you could cobble together an script to drive ftp for you . Thankfully there are alternatives like | | to get whole directories worth of files .
AppleScript is a nice way to go ! It works on Mavericks . It might need some modifications on older OS X because the UI of the mouse preferences changed .
I 've had the same issue , when I had connectivity issues - you 're right , it never does appear to resume . You can get the update file directly from <URL> this site merely links to the correct location at Apple for the file you require &amp; so is safe to use Get the latest version for your device . This is not a way to downgrade your iOS , merely to fetch the current one by an alternative method . If you still have difficulty resuming , then use a separate downloader app , SpeedDownload for Mac or Wget for Windows , etc. . Launch iTunes . Plug the phone to your computer . Then , in iTunes , hold Opt [ alt ] when clicking the Check for Update button &amp; a file-picker will open instead . Find the file you just downloaded &amp; it will run from there as normal .
Krumelur Mail.app used to be able to see Public Folders on Exchange , but no longer has this ability . Outlook 2011 and Entourage both support this feature .
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
The short answer on how to enable sshd from the terminal is doing this : The long answer on how to execute daemons or scripts on startup is a bit longer . There are two ways ( that I know of ) to do this : The first one is through Startup Items , which are executed at the final phase of bootup , these are deprecated and should n't be used unless you need compatibility with MacOSX v10 .3 or earlier . You can take a look at how to do it this way in <URL> . The second one is launchd , a replacement for init and rc ( among others ) . This is the recommended way and it 's a bit trickier than just putting a script on a folder like in Linux . There are several ways to launch daemons , the preferred way it to launch them on demand ( so they will be ready to launch but you wo n't see them in a ps for example , unless you are using them ) . The explanation is a bit lengthly and the list of options is long , you can take a look at the documentation <URL> . You can take a look in / Library/LaunchAgents for examples , if you have Chrome installed , there is a file in there for the Google Software Updater called com.google.keystone.agent.plist , that runs at load time , you can start there .
Simply drag the folder to the desired position in the sidebar . This adds the folder to the sidebar in every current and future Finder window , as well as Finder Open/Save windows/sheets . Removal is done by dragging the folder from the sidebar out to the side .
Open Mission Control and just click on the Downloading Xcode icon . This will pause it . Clicking again will resume .
Short answer : Yes . Some Apps ( usually those with paid content ) prohibit video output via AirPlay or AV-Adapters . There 's no way I know of to get around the issue . For some , not all , a HDMI adapter works because of " <URL> "
Apple 's . mobileconfig files are signed using PKCS7 . The signing certificate data can be shown using the following command : You can copy/paste ASCII certificate data from the output into a plain text file ( with a . cer filename extension ) to create copies of the certificates : OpenSSL can be used to verify the code-signing certificate as well . Assuming that we 've copied the signing CA 's certificate text/data into , and copied the code signing certificate into . : Removing the signature from a file can be accomplished using this command :
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
When you select the color picker for the Window - there 's an opacity slider there :
There 's no built-in functionality to download lyrics in iTunes , but there 's a slew of software designed for this purpose : Windows : <URL> <URL> <URL> OS X : <URL> <URL>
On my MBA - 10.9.4 the " on my mac " mail folders are in the The Library folder is hidden since OS X Lion , so use the Finder 's " Go To Folder " menu in the " Go " menu and enter that address .
The option offered by techraf is one way to go , but I do think there is a built-in OS X option available that will meet your needs ( or most of them ) . In every OS X ' Open ' dialogue box or ' Save as ' dialogue box you have a drop-down menu which you can click on to select other locations . Clicking on this will also list your recent places and allows you to open from or save to these as needed . Depending on your setup , you may need to click on the arrow button appearing next to the field ( on the right ) to make the drop-down visible . As an aside ( and you 're probably aware of this - but for the benefit of others ) on a related note you can access recent applications and documents under Apple Menu > Recent Items . You can also increase/decrease the number of recent items listed here by accessing System Preferences > Appearance on older systems or System Preferences > General on newer ones . Hope this helps . [ EDIT ] Okay , here are some images showing an example of how to view recent places in Mac OS X Save As dialogue boxes and Open dialogue boxes . These examples are based on OS X El Capitan , but other versions also work in a similar fashion . <URL> <URL> Please note : Various applications may display these dialogue boxes differently , but all offer the ability to view recent places In my images , Desktop is shown in the Where drop-down menu . However , this may be different depending on your circumstances If you ca n't seem to see a list of recent places , make sure if there is an arrow next to the Save As field that it faces down ( see below ) <URL> Hope this helps !
Since OS X has no package manager , anything you install would have been manual , through MacPorts or through Installer . If you want a list of the binaries your terminal has access to , you can run the following commands to check the most common spots , and output the result as a text file : Alternatively , if you just want to get the packages installed by MacPorts , run the following ( this is probably the one you want ) : And for <URL> : And finally , for all packages installed by Installer To restore , for example , your MacPorts ports from the list generated above , use the following :
You can use the Recovery partition or Internet Recovery to download the full installer . The basic method is , tell it to re-install on an external drive , let it download , interrupt it before it reboots your system , then you can grab the DMG file and write it to a USB drive so that you 'll have a full ( no internet required ) installer when you need it . Full details here : <URL> You 'll want to have a spare external drive handy to use as the install target so that you do n't risk overwriting your boot drive .
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
Use a smart folder . Right click the Finder in the Dock Select New Smart Folder Press the plus button Select kind . Select Last Modified/Opened or whatever you want . Select ' This Mac ' Save your smart folder . When saving , make sure ' Add to Sidebar ' is checked . Name your smart folder and you 're good to go !
Simply change the Terminal settings Terminal - > Preferences - > Startup - > New windows open with : Same Working Directory . <URL>
end question
start question
What are the default special folder names for IMAP accounts in Mail.app ( like Drafts , Junk , Sent ) ?
I created an empty IMAP account and added it to Mail.app and Notes.app on my Mac running OS X Mountain Lion . After saving some messages , all default folders were created by Mail.app . Then I connected to the IMAP server using Terminal and listed all folders : As you can see in the raw output , the exact default folder names are as follows : INBOX Drafts Sent Messages Junk Deleted Messages Archive Notes After updating my email server to create these folder for new IMAP accounts by default , I connected a new account to my Mac . As hoped , Mail.app and Mail on iOS automatically used these special folders ( I only had to enable " Store junk messages on the server " on Mac ) . For those using Dovecot as well , this is the resulting configuration file with the default folders included ( ) :
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
When Steve Jobs first introduced the iMac in 1998 , he proclaimed that the i stood for Internet . Jobs went on to say , " i also means some other things to us " and displayed a presentation slide with the keywords : internet individual instruct inform inspire You can even view <URL> . The " i " was first used on the iBook and iMac . These were produced as Steve Jobs wanted a pro and consumer model of a desktop and portable computer . This later rolled out with more products , iSight , iPod , iPhone , iPad . Yes the products are trademarked , but using an " i " itself before a product is not trademarked and it can not be . Here is <URL>
Select the folder for Gmail in the Mail.app sidebar ( might be under a heading in Mail depending on how you set it up ) then go to the menu in the menu bar and look down near the bottom for the menu . Choose in there and that should make the Gmail-based Sent folder the default place for Mail.app to save outgoing mail . It will also appear to move that folder out of the Gmail section and up to the top-most section below , etc. . After you do this you may notice you now have a section in the Mail sidebar for folders , and a folder in there . This is the folder that previously was containing all messages sent via Gmail but stored locally . Feel free to copy all the messages out of there and into the new default folder ( which will copy them all up to the Gmail server ) . PS - This process works for as well , so you can map the Gmail Trash to be used by Mail.app . You can also do it for but I 've seen some weird behaviour where Gmail/Mail . app does n't delete drafts after sending a message and you get a ton of them stacking up in Drafts , which is why I usually leave Drafts as a local-only folder .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
To follow up Martin 's answer , for British English you will need to edit the list and check the " British English " tick box . I spent while looking for " English ( British ) " , but it 's the former format that appears .
There are not specific keyboard shortcuts for those two individual items in <URL> but you can navigate to them with the keyboard . Here 's how you could get a login or password into your clipboard without pushing a mouse ( or fondling a trackpad ) . Command-F to search for the account you want to access & uarr ; / & darr ; to move up or down through the search results Command-E to switch to edit mode for the selected record Tab until you get to the field you want to copy Command-C to copy the value from the field Command-E again to exit edit mode You now have the value you want on your clipboard . I know it 's not the single shortcut you were looking for but I think it 's as close as you 're going to get with 1Password .
After many search I find <URL> it 's done what I want . TuneUp is an easy-to-use and powerful plug-in for iTunes &amp; Windows Media Player , and also available for both Mac and windows .
I think this Apple support article has the list you 're looking for . It is updated as changes are made : <URL> And StartCom is on there .
The simplest solution would be to add the address to which you want alarms sent to your Address Book entry . Beyond that , I do n't have an elegant workaround , but you could , for example , run a script that could contain a variable to send alerts to multiple recipients . I sympathize in that it 's annoying that your Address Book entry is forced to contain a mix of public and private information used for various , and differing , purposes . This is one of Apple 's many decisions that ( I assume ) works for the majority of the user population , but bites the outliers in various ways .
There are lots of little application launcher utilities available , to name two <URL> and the venerable <URL> . Personally , I prefer keyboard-based launchers like <URL> or <URL> . OS X Lion will have feature called <URL> which looks like it will be a good replacement to the dock for launching applications . Organizing Apps in the Finder or launching them all via the Dock is rather futile , in my opinion -- unless you have a very small collection of Applications ... If you 're looking for folder icons , there are tons of online sources . I recommend the <URL> to start . Customization : in the Finder if you use the Command in the file menu on a selected folder ( also available in the right-click contextual menu ) , you can select the icon in the info window top-left . From there you can copy the icon resources and paste them . So that 's how you can customize the folders , copy icons from a downloaded folder source , and paste them into your new folders . Panic software produces an excellent Application for icon management that can also streamline this process called <URL> .
You need to download <URL> , however every time MacOS X is updated the version of GrowlMail becomes outdated and wo n't run ( under Snow Leopard , at least ) . I think that the current version of GrowlMail does n't work with Mac OS X 10.6.7 at present . Details of why it keeps breaking are <URL> . It is annoying but seems unavoidable .
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
One way to ensure all your email goes out as UTF-8 is to include a Unicode dingbat or similar character in every message , as part of your signature or otherwise .
Something like should do the trick . It is plain vanilla unix .
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
They are listed beside each sound . If we look at AirDrop for example , iOS will list : Pulse ( Default ) . All sounds will have this ( Default ) suffix attached to them .
end question
start question
Install Mac OS X Tiger alongside Mac OS X Snow Leopard ?
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
Look in / var/log for and . contains the most current logs ; the other files are archives of successively older log files , made whenever each one reached a maximum size .
Welcome , Martijn . I always recommend Apple 's videos : <URL> For now I would also recommend you not worry about terminal/UNIX . Learn to use the Mac OS using the GUI at first , getting used to how it behaves and in which ways it might be different from the Windows operating systems you are used to . Good luck ! EDIT : Also , it does n't really matter where things " should " go on a Mac . You can put applications on the desktop , documents in Applications , etc , etc. . Although I do n't recommend that . There is a Documents folder for documents and an Applications folder for apps . Treat the Library and System folders with care ( IE -- do not go into them or manipulate them until/unless you know what they are , what 's inside and what the effect of your actions will be ) and you will be fine . Backups are also your best friend .
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
If I remember correctly , you should be able to install Ubuntu into Boot Camp , and then virtualize it using Parallels Desktop . Works great with Windows ; most likely with Ubuntu as well .
That 's pretty normal to see only the files for windows , when you are mounting the ISO image on a windows ! Even if you have inserted a MAC OS Installation DVD ( physical ) into tray and openned it in a windows machine , you would have seen only the Windows files and not the MAC files .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
I used Open Office , it does the job ok . No crashes , quite feature complete . However if you really do n't want to pay anything for an office suite , I 'd go for Google Docs . If you do want to pay , then definitely go for iWork . It 's the only one that 's fully integrated with OS X ( especially if you have Lion ) .
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
Go to the network preferences panel in System Preference Select airport , then ' Advanced ... ' Press the plus button It will work even when the network is n't near .
Click View menu > Full Screen at the very top of the screen . Or press Command-2 .
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
Zeroing out the drive is typically done for security purposes , but there is also another benefit to zeroing out an SSD - performance . The firmware of an SSD does a lot of complicated tricks to increase disk performance and reliability , but they become less effective the more data the drive has to retain . Since deleting a file or reformatting a disk does not actually turn the bits on the disk back to zero , the drive firmware must still manage that data . If you zero out the drive , you allow the firmware to stop managing all that data and in turn it 's able to offer better performance on the data that you have .
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
end question
start question
How to setup a default program opening an unknown file extension ?
Check <URL> answer which points you to <URL> so you can toy with extensions and default apps .
Live photos use the microphone to record sound as well as video when you take a picture . Look at the camera settings when you open the app to see whether video is going to happen ( or already be happening since it records video from before you press the shutter ) . There appears to be a bug ( that has n't been fixed yet as of iOS 9.3 ) on that hardware that makes iPhone 6S worse than others - it pauses even when you are aware of the video aspects and request a non-live photo and non-video recording setting .
There is little hope unless one or both of the editors squirrel away copies of the file for you or embed the undo buffer in the document . It really depends on the editors and the settings . One last ditch effort is to use the command . If that file had a memorable string or misspelling you could see in an instant if any files on the disk contain that string . If you search for a common string , you 'll have a lot of false positives , but it 's worth a shot . In this case , even software that recovers deleted files wo n't be of use when another editor truncates the file . It was shredded and not simply deleted On a personal note , We all learn this lesson about data loss in a personal way , usually many times over . It 's not overkill to have both version control and an automated backup system . Time Machine is marvelous in that it makes hourly snapshots so you lose at most an hours work . Files that have been around for [ a day | a week ] are saved for [ a month | until the drive fills ] . It really works well in practice , and if you have local backups , you might even have snapshots more often than one an hour to recover a file . Sorry to hear you lost work , it 's never a good feeling .
Provided you have done what Vlad said ( enable the Bluetooth sharing ) and paired the devices ( which you seem to have done ) , I have absolutely no problem to send files via bluetooth using my Nexus-S . I have ICS 4.03 now , but I had 2.3.x ( where X is 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 if I 'm not mistaken ) . Once you have the devices Paired , if the Mac is in range and with BT enabled , the phone can send files because the Mac should be on the phone 's list of paired devices . I recall that in 2.3.x sometimes it wo n't work , but retrying to turning on/off BT was usually enough . I do n't use it a lot , but I just tried ( after months of probably never touching bluetooth on either device ) and I got this : Here 's my preference pane : and Finally , this is my Phone 's paired list ( two are intentionally blurred ) , but you can see my Macbook Air : Hope you can double-check your settings . For reference : I have Firewall ON I have Firewall Stealth ON . Here 's my Firewall Screen ( app list blurred by me ) :
I do n't think <URL> or their <URL> are there yet with general multivariate linear regression but their email support is great and you might ask them which product of theirs might get that first . These do not run offline - so you may have to wait for the whole enchilada to arrive . In the mean time , you will need to use something like <URL> to connect back to a computer that can actually run the numbers for you . This is a step better than just running screens as it lets you do input natively on iOS and shuttles forth and back the data to the main engine running remotely . As you commented , you could get a matrix manipulation tool - both the <URL> and a few other apps like matrix calculator plus will invert matrices for you .
If you do n't want to disable syncing documents and data , run and quit and reopen TextEdit to apply the changes .
No , you can not do this ( <URL> ) . You should strongly consider not using WPS anyway , as it has a number of <URL> . Apple has a page which <URL> for connecting an iOS device , which might help .
I am basing my answer what your requirements are Web Development . Developing websites or web apps that typically run off a server ; typically Apache/PHP/MySQL Access the server remotely to edit/develop I belive this is much more than just screen sharing as you do n't want to share your screen , just the website you are developing for a client . You will need the following : Web service listening on the appropriate port Open/forwarded port on your router Dynamic DNS ( DDNS ) with the ability to update your record Web service listening on the appropriate port Typically , when doing Web Dev , this is Apache listening on the correct IP/Port . Assuming that you have just one network adapter , you have to make sure that Apache ( or whatever else you are running ) is listening so that other computers on your LAN can access it . If you can do this , then you are good to go for the next step Open and/or forward the port on your router So , you can get to your service from inside your network , but now it 's time to get to it from the outside . Determine your local IP . Using terminal , issue the command . The line should start off with . That 's your local IP address Forward HTTP traffic to that port . There are many routers on the market and each have different user interfaces , but they are all technically doing the same thing : taking traffic bound to your IP and port and forwarding it to an address you specify . You will have to check your user manual for the specifics on how to do this . But , basically , you are going to forward port 80 traffic ( HTTP ) to the IP address you found in step 1 . Next , you are going to want to test this out . Use a service like <URL> or <URL> to find your public IP . You can even type the search directly into <URL> and have it return your IP address . Once you have that , you need to browse to it . A smartphone NOT connected to your WiFi makes a good choice . Point the browser of the smartphone to the public IP address you just obtained . If you can see your page/application , your router is working . If not , you need to go back and make sure your port forwarding is set up correctly . Setup DDNS This is the final step . <URL> allows you to use a domain name to access your IP even though it changes . Many newer routers support DDNS in their firmware - you will need to check with your specific manufacturer and or model . Even if your router dose n't support DDNS , you are still in luck . All you need is a DDNS client to update your record and it can run on any computer on your network . For example , on <URL> , they provide a number of different clients you can on virtually every platform from Windows , to Linux and even iOS . So , what you will need to do is install one of these clients on your Mac server so that it can periodiocally update your DDNS record
The FTP server in Mountain Lion is still there , just not part of the GUI . You can re-enable it using the following in Terminal : To disable , do instead of . * The FTP root directory is your Users home folder .
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
UPDATE : With XCode 7 it is now possible to deploy an app on your own iOS9 + device for free . Only if you need to publish your app to the AppleStore will you need the paid membership . See qqbenq 's answer for more details . Without being a member , you can only run your app in the simulator . You must be a paid member to be able to install the app on a device . <URL> : Start developing for iOS and Mac OS X with the Xcode IDE , Dashcode , Instruments , Interface Builder , iOS Simulator and a suite of additional developer tools . <URL> : Test and debug your code on iPad , iPhone and iPod touch to finalize your applications .
If you go to the Utility folder on your Mac , open the Activity Moniitor . Then go to the Memory tab . There you will see who is using how much . There is also a Disk Tab , where you can also see who is using how much on active basis ( when programs are running ) . You wont see the passive usage ( how much information is stored ) in that window . In this example the application Firefox Using Memory : Using Disk space : How much space is a Application occupying on the disk , is answered by looking in your Finder - Applications then under the - Size coulomb . Again in my example , the Firefox occupies 147 MB of permanent disk space , which is not the same as the information above which was for the active situation . Back to your original problem - slow computer : In the Activity Monitor look now in the CPU tab to see who is most active there .
At the moment , unfortunately , Apple does n't allow default apps to be changed . Some apps came up with various hacks to open Google Chrome instead of Mobile Safari when you press a web page link within that app but at the moment there is no such hack for mailing . And if there was , frankly , Apple would ' t implement it into Safari themselves . Maybe in the future , Apple will allow default apps to be changed but basically you 're stuck right now . Sorry .
Mac OS X recognizes TrueType and OpenType fonts ( . ttf and . otf ) but not the PC bitmap fonts ( . fon ) . So depending on the copyrights of the fonts you may transfer the . ttf and . otf font files . To install the fonts : Under Mac OS X 10.3 or above ( including the FontBook ) Double-click the font file > " Install font " button at the bottom of the preview . Under any version of Mac OS X : Put the files into / Library/Fonts ( for all users ) , or into / Users/Your _ username/Library/Fonts ( for you only ) .
I do n't know any extension like this one , but I 've used <URL> which works really fine . It 's a small app in your menubar and gets the job done .
Highlight the result in Spotlight , then press ⌘ ↩ . This will open the containing folder in Finder . Alfred will also let you do this , with a bit more customisation :
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
Yes Yahoo mail supports push , but failing sometimes . This is how to enable it : Go to " Settings - > Mail , Contacts , Calendars " Tap " Fetch New Data " Slide " Push " to ON ( you can select Fetch period whatever you like ) Also from " Fetch New Data " page , tap " Advanced " and see that Yahoo! mail account has Push text on the right It is easy to do , but sometimes Yahoo push just does n't work .
According to <URL> , . daa is an extension related to the PowerIso application . <URL> suggests an open source application - <URL> . The app page states : DAA Converter is a free utility for converting DAA &amp; GBI disk images to ISO format so they can be accessed on your Mac . DAA Converter is a native GUI application which wraps the command-line tool , DAA2ISO/GBI2ISO , by Luigi Auriemma . It runs on Mac OS X 10.3 Panther or later . I do n't have any . daa files to test with , so I ca n't verify that this utility works . However , it 's a GPL freeware app , so it would n't hurt to give it a shot .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
end question
start question
Can Bluetooth be disabled on the Apple Watch ?
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
The Bluetooth profile necessary for stereo audio , <URL> , is <URL> ( aka " Leopard " ) . As you use 10.4 ( aka " Tiger " ) , the answer to the first part of your question is : Bluetooth audio only works in 64 kbit/s mono quality via the <URL> in 10.4 . Probably not what you want for music listening , even if the headphones support it . As to the second part of your question : You are stuck with wireless solutions working via the audio jack , USB or FireWire . In the case of USB / FW solutions ( if such wireless solutions exist ) , check these for 10.4 compatibility before you invest .
Unfortunately the only way to share apps is to use the same Apple ID for purchases on every device . You can use different IDs for iCloud , but you need to sign into the App Store with the same ID . If you 're signed in to the App Store with the correct ID you can download previously purchased apps for free , each person haven their own computer and iTunes library does n't matter .
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
It seems that simply unpairing it turns off Activation Lock . Before you send your Apple Watch in for service , sell it , or give it away , you should turn off Activation Lock on your Apple Watch . Just unpair your Apple Watch from your iPhone : Keep your Apple Watch and iPhone close together . Open the Watch app on your iPhone and tap the My Watch tab . Tap Apple Watch , then tap Unpair Apple Watch . Enter your Apple ID password . If you forgot your Apple ID password , you can reset it . Tap again to confirm . If you ca n't access your iPhone or Apple Watch , or if your Apple Watch is n't paired with your iPhone and you need to turn off Activation Lock : On a computer , go to iCloud.com . Sign in with your Apple ID , and open Settings . Under My Devices , click your Apple Watch . Click X next to your device . Click Remove to confirm . <URL>
I have heard on different podcasts of users who use <URL> to shortcut into typing different e-mail signatures . TextExpander is on my wish list of apps I will buy soon , I see a lot of potential in having keyboard shortcuts for common text snippets . Hope this helps .
You can disable the Bluetooth Setup Wizard by : Go to System Preferences Click Bluetooth Click Advanced Un-check ' Open Bluetooth Setup Assistant at start up when no input device is present ' . The screen should look like this ( the checkbox above the highlighted section ) : More information in this Apple KB - <URL> Also , if you are not using Bluetooth at all , you can disable it as well .
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
The first generation Apple TV had a pretty low powered Intel CPU , as you can see in the <URL> . So in theory , you should be able to run just about any Linux distro , just a question of how much hacking you 're willing to do . There are a bunch of resources for doing this , but a good one is at the <URL> . There are tools to create a nice USB stick that should do most of the work for you . As for how useful it is , do n't expect much for general purpose computing - after all it 's a 1 GHz Pentium-M with 256 MB of RAM . But it may do reasonably well for some home theatre tasks , or if you need a home automation server or similar box .
As mentioned in the Apple Discussion Forums , like <URL> for example , the iPhone does not have ( and never has had ) support for file transfers over Bluetooth . Here are the <URL> listing the types of operations possible .
Terminal has n't been updated for nearly a year now , so unfortunately there are some imperfections as things change in iOS . But for this case , though , I believe the escape key is actually controlled by SpringBoard , not any apps , which means Terminal ca n't capture and send the escape key to the command-line program . The <URL> has information on keyboard shortcuts , and it says that the key shortcut for escape is Ctrl + [ ( • + [ on the virtual keyboard ) . However , if my assumptions above are correct , the only way to use the real escape key would be to write a tweak to redirect the escape command to Terminal .
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
The response I got from Apple Support : For many repairs , as well as quality checks after a completed repair , it is necessary that our technicians can boot the Mac . If FileVault is enabled , that means that we do need to note the password for the time of the repair . A viable alternative is to wipe the Mac 's hard drive or flash storage prior to the repair and restore from a backup afterwards . So either prepare to hand off your password to them , or empty your hard drive before giving the macbook for repair .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
iOS 7 introduced support for Bluetooth Low Energy ( BLE ) <URL> . These are small Bluetooth devices that can be placed to indicate a very specific location and the system respond in some way when they are detected . Enter a shop and an app for the shop showing you the latest offers might be one way for this to be leveraged . This would be different from usual geolocation APIs which become inaccurate when you are inside large structures ( offices , malls etc. ) as they can not get a GPS fix , and WiFi coverage tends to be meshed with repeater stations
I do n't mind the alert or warning , but I do mind the weeks of having a blinking icon in my Menubar . Here 's what I did in Terminal : This replaces the low battery icon with the same connected icon . I assume the icon is still " blinking " in that it 's switching one for the other , but since they 're now the same , you do n't notice . Now I get the 20 % , 10 % , 5 % alerts , but no annoying blink . This is in Lion . It 's likely that system updates and perhaps even Mountain Lion will undo this , but it can probably be reapplied after updates are performed . For Mountain Lion , the relevant files are named :
The search does n't function when Activity Monitor 's view is set to " All Processes , Hierarchically " . Open the view menu and change it to anything else , and it 'll activate again .
There are several apps for extracting backups . The one I have used is <URL> , it 's been around for a while now and it is freeware , just make a donation if you find it useful to help the developer keep it updated . You simply select from which backup you want to restore by pressing the button " Read Backups " , then select from the list of application settings that can be restored . There is a detailed step by step guide <URL>
The activity recorded on the Apple Watch is separate from the activity recorded on the iPhone . As such each is recorded as a separate source in health.app . Also only activity recorded on the Apple Watch is reflected in activity.app . Source : <URL> - Apple Software Engineer <URL>
end question
start question
Apple ID with iCloud email address ?
That 's a catch 22 situation . You want to create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created when you create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created ... If you mean a new Apple ID with an old iCloud email , then no , that 's not possible .
You have to use a single apple id in iTunes homesharing on all devices that you want on your appleTV BUT This does not mean that you ca n't buy anything anymore with your personal apple ID everything you buy will still be placed in your library and will be shared on the ' family ' apple ID account <URL>
No , this does n't work for iCloud email addresses . Just tried it and the email failed to deliver -- the email must be exactly correct .
No - when you actually sign up with iTunes connect to sell ( or distribute for free ) a podcast , music track , iBook , iOS app or Mac app - you enter into a much more formal relationship with Apple . The forms are fairly self-explanatory and allow for you to specify the name of the business in a separate form that the name of the person filling out the form on behalf of the business . Of course , you can sell things in your own name and enter the same information in multiple places ( which is n't what you are asking , but it 's possible in general ) . As with any contract , lawyers and accountants are advisable if you wish to know the costs and advantages of doing something personally versus as a business or corporation . That 's far above our scope here , but in your case , iBooks Author will guide you through this sign up process . I have had 4 acquaintances sign up and all of them completed the initial sign up process in less than an hour . One decided to not use their personal account and is in the process of forming an LLC to sell books , but the others are intending to sell under their real names . At worst , you will have signed up and wasted time and can just close your account and open another if you determine you did n't do it correctly or ca n't change some critical piece of information . I 've seen plenty of app developers change their selling names and presume it was without signing up again , but once you sign up , you will have Apple to field questions on how to use their service and modify certain information you submitted if it needs to change .
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
Apple Pay is separate to Family Sharing . Each person maintains their own Apple Pay cards and being part of Family Sharing has no effect on this . It 's just like not being part of Family Sharing .
Is the service present and enabled in the Services section of Keyboard Preferences ? You should see this : If it 's not there for some reason , you can recreate it easily in Automator . Create a new Service in Automator , add the " New Mail Message " action to the workflow , and change the first drop down at the top so it reads " Service receives selected files and folders in any application " . It should look like this : Then save it , and you should have it available in your services menu .
It turns out that an IOS5 device is n't required ; you can create the account with a computer running Lion . The trick is to create yourself an Apple ID ( I used iTunes but there may be other ways , perhaps a free Developer account ? ) . Then use Lion 's iCloud pane to create an iCloud account with the ID . With iCal , create an iCloud calendar . Now delete the calendar from the Lion machine . Buy the Lion machine 's owner a beer or flowers as appropriate , or thank the Apple store genius . :) Go to your Snow Lion machine , log into iCloud.com and change the account password .
From the Photo app you can select up to 5 images and hit . Maybe it 's possible to mail more then 5 images when you select 5 + and the them and them in your E-Mail . See this guide for reference : <URL>
It 's possible to have more than 1 email account associated with an Apple ID , without the 2nd address actually being one . So for example while my Apple ID is from a personal domain , say xyz@1234.com, I also have an icloud email address xyz123@me.com that is associated with my Apple ID . If your wide used a mobile me account , maybe as part of a family pack , and you migrated it to icloud , it 's possible that it has gained such a link in some way .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
The canonical way to test is plug the phone into iTunes and restore it . The computer will retrieve lock status and let you know if the server side lock is present or reset . You could also tap to the settings app on the iPhone and reset , erase all content and settings . That will need a wifi or cellular connection to verify the same server side lock status . The article you <URL> - depending on which was employed , you might still not be done with that user . It might be important to have them send a remote erase or you perform the erase before they do the unlock part with their ID .
You can not . Apple has retired the ability to get a new @me . com email address , just like they did for the @mac . com email addresses back in 2008 . Existing accounts are grandfathered in , but you are unfortunately out of luck .
At first glance it is n't possible in a stock installation of iOS 6 and using the default mail app . If you jailbreak your phone , it appears that at least one tweak , Mail Enhancer Pro , will allow you to have rules on your iPhone itself . However , there are a number of good options , other then jailbreaking , that may work . First , if you use an IMAP email account , then you may be able to use your computer to route the mail . The changes will obviously reflect on the device . For example , if you have a Mac , then you can use Mail.app to create a rule to forward particular emails to the address you desire . Second , depending on who provides your email , you may be able to route the mail there . I would say Gmail is an example of that . If you go to your Gmail account and navigate to settings , you can set up rules in there . iCloud mail provides rules as well . If you go to <URL> - > Mail - > Settings ( icon in the upper left corner ) . You can select the Rules tab and set up actions that would work apply to the mail you receive to your @me . com , @icloud . com , or @mac . com account .
No . The copy of Lion you get with a new Mac is only available via the recovery partition on the hard drive and this version of the OS is tied to the hardware . <URL> : When you reinstall Lion via Lion Recovery , it seems Apple uses information about your Mac 's hardware to verify that it has a license for Lion . <URL> : Unfortunately , as Macworld points out , this trick does n't apply to OS X Lion itself -- there 's no DVD or thumb drive included with a new Mac , which means the big cat only lives on your new Mac 's recovery partition , which appears to be tied to the hardware itself -- meaning you ca n't install it on your other Macs without ponying up the $ 29.99 from the Mac App Store . Would be nice if you got it for your other Macs for free when you bought a new Mac , but for now it seems like it 'll still cost you another $ 30 to bring all the Macs you own up to the current OS rev.
Here is what I do , where I share one appleid for purchases among 3 family members . Number one , only use the appleid for purchases just for purchases . then , each member should have a separate iCloud account with a unique appleid for mail , contacts , iCal , etc syncing . Then , on all devices set the appleid for the store to the purchase id and on the individual devices set the iCloud id to the appleid for each individual separately . Works great for me .
Apparently , Lion 's Automator actions are a bit more finicky about implicit data conversion between actions than Snow Leopard 's . In your case , the issue is the " Get Contact Information " action does not perform a conversion from groups into their contained contacts . This can be solved quite easily by inserting a " Get Selected Address Book Items " action set to " people " after the first one ( which retrieves the selected groups ) before the " New Text File " action . This will allow you to select groups in Address Book instead of having to select all their constituent members . As to the encoding issue , that does not seem to have anything to do with the Automator workflow : testing with my iCloud address book ( German , with lots of Czech and French contacts ) neither your nor my variant produce any issues writing UTF-8 text as long as the " New Text File " action 's file format is set to " text ( . txt , convert if necessary ) " . If the issue persists on your system when using these settings , possible causes I can think of are TextEdit ( or your editor of choice ) is set to display the file as another encoding than UTF-8 ; in that case , it would mangle them on display . your address book might contain differently encoded characters , possibly from importing from older systems : Address Book is very good at hiding these , but they can cause a number of odd issues . There are a number of utilities out there claiming to fix broken Address Book records , but I have never tested them -- YMMV .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
Yes - tapping the sign out button disconnects FaceTime . The messages app uses a different account unless you set them all up using iCloud preference or a setup assistant screen to log into all icloud services with one Apple ID . As long as you signed out of the FaceTime portion of the settings app - more deliveries wo n't happen to that device . as long as you did n't sign in to the iCloud settings or anywhere else - you should be safe with no data of yours on that device other than for the moments you allowed it .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
end question
start question
Boot Camp Assistant Missing ?
You can use the Recovery partition to reinstall OS X . This will keep your user account but reset all system files . To reinstall OS X , boot with ⌘ R and select the Reinstall OS X option , then follow the instructions . Additionally , this file is normally backed up to the local time machine store , so try entering Time Machine even if you do n't have your drive connected to see about restoring that file . Worst case , have some trusted people MD5 check sum the app on 10.8.5 if you want to risk downloading it from a stranger instead of from a friend 's backup or Mac .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
Boot Camp Assistant partitions the HDD so that Windows can be installed . Windows does not support Core Storage , hence the partition is solely on the HDD . Do Macs that have a Fusion Drive support Boot Camp ? Yes . Boot Camp Assistant creates the Windows partition on the disk drive instead of the flash drive ( SSD ) . Source : <URL> Speaking of Core Storage , this is what is used to make your two disks appear as one logical volume . You ca n't see the individual drives ' content separately . For more information , see <URL> or search " Core Storage " .
I keep my documents on the Mac side as I 'm pretty much only using Parallels to run my BootCamp install , so that way they 're backed up . I do n't really mind doing a fresh reinstall of windows if something goes wrong .
Pressing on both machines will exit the migration assistant . I have a feeling that it copies all files to temporary location before installing them/creating user accounts . So you should be fine . Depending on how far in you might have problems .
First of all , connect the adapter and reboot . In many cases , it will solve the problem . You need to reboot because the adapter is not hot-pluggable . For the same reason , if you remove and re-insert the adapter , it wo n't work until you reboot . If you still have difficulties , I 've found <URL> at Apple Store . Google " <URL> " . Select the <URL> . Install via device manager ( select location where you unzipped driver ) . Note , the PCI ID for this device 14e4 :1682 is not listed in Broadcom 's web page list of supported IDs . However the driver 's . inf does include the requisite matching for the new device ID . Hopefully , you can solve this with a reboot due to it not working as a hot-plug device , and each time you need to boot Windows with the adapter attached for the driver to load .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
You can do this using macs built in DiskUtility.app . Insert the Windows installation DVD into the external Superdrive . Open Disk Utility , Select the USB optical drive in the left DiskUtility window . Click new image in the top bar . Select DVD/CD master from the " Image Format " submenu . Choose " None " for encryption . After the image is done , locate it in Finder and highlight the file . Press enter/return and rename the disk image file extension to . iso Eject the Window installation DVD and insert your USB that is FAT32 formatted and use Master Boot Record for the partitioning scheme . Open up Boot Camp Assistant and make sure " Create a Window 7 or later version install disk " is checked . When you click continue it will prompt you to select the location of your . iso file you created . <URL>
Solution 1 : Shrink the Mac partition . Create TWO partitions in the remaining space . Set up windows in one . Set up data in the other . While I have not run the windows 7/8 installs , the older versions would present an interface to use an existing partition if present . If not present , it would default to using the entire remainder of the disk , but this could be over-ridden . So you may have an option in an ordinary install to not use the entire remainder of the disk . Solution 2 : Use an external drive as your Data drive . Using a cloud drive such as DropBox , or Google Drive is also a possibility . Opinion warning : I 'm not a fan of multi-boot . The stuff you need to do is always in the OS that is n't running . Many sad tales of installation processes that were unkind to foreign OSs . Now that both Parallels and Virtual Box have reasonable performance , I consider that for most uses , a virtual machine is a better solution . So ... Solution 3 . Run windows in a virtual machine , and either export a file system via Samba ( SMB ) or by the virtual environment 's file sharing system . This alternative can be expanded to allow DOS VMs Linux VMs , Solaris VMs . Note that screen handling can be kludgy for any OS that does n't have the appropriate extensions . Solution 4 . Run Windows on a separate box and connect to it via Remote Desktop . Again , clunky . But I know guys who use their iPad this way to connect to their windows box at work . Not sure how much serious work they get done this way , but fetching the power point presentation they left at work may be sufficient . Solution 5 . Run windows on a machine next to your Mac so that you can spin your chair . Bootcamp makes the most sense if you actually need to use the same hardware at maximum performance . But unless you are needing access to massive amounts of data from both OSs an external hard drive or even an 8 Gb thumb drive is likely addequate . If performance is n't as critical , then running in a VM gives you access to both environments , and the additional security of having a mac beteen your windows box and the cruel world . ( Yes macs can be pawned , but it now means that an attacker has to get through 2 OSs defences . ) The Remote Desktop solutions require a reasonably high speed data link . The 2nd computer solution is less than ideal for portability . Hope this helps .
There are applications that let you control how much of each color component in the display generated by your machine gets to the monitor . An example of this is <URL> . These are useful for adjusting your monitor for night time viewing , and other special cases . Unless you have something like this running on BOTH the machines , it 's likely that the problem is either with the monitor itself , or with the cable . Are you connecting via VGA or DVI ? A problem with the cable would n't manifest like that on DVI , but could on VGA , where individual pins literally correspond to component colors . If on VGA , try another cable and see if that helps . If that does n't work , it 's most likely that the monitor is broken .
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
Booting from an install media such as a Snow Leopard install DVD will not boot to your desktop . Instead , it will boot to the OS installed on the disc and whilst this is OS X , there 's no Finder for you to move files around . However , the disc does come with Terminal and you can use it to copy your files to somewhere else , another disk , etc. . There are numerous tools that you can use in Terminal to copy files , but for individual files/folders as mentioned in your question you can simply to copy them . Then , using the disc , reinstall Snow Leopard and copy your files back once booted back ( using the now-available Finder ) .
Yup , apparently it is missing and you have to install <URL> to get it .
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
Is this on your Macbook Pro ? If so the disks should work both legally and pragmatically . You would n't need to use bootcamp though , since bootcamp is designed jsut for windows . Nevertheless its pretty easy . Here are the basic steps I would follow : Insert your install DVD . Shutdown your computer . Start your computer pressing the C key to boot from the DVD . Once in the instalation assistant , go to Disk Utility under Utilities > Disk Utility . Select your disk . Select the Partition tab and click on the " + " to add a new one . Call it whatever you please and add at least 10GB of disk space ( enough to install Snow Leopard ) and make sure its in Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) . Apply the settings . Go through the installer like you normally would , though when it asks you were to install tell it you want to Snow Leopard to be on your new partition . This should let you boot on Snow Leopard by pressing the opt/alt key just like when you boot Windows . Hope it helps ! Any other thing you need fear not comment .
With regards to your question , there does n't seem to be a way to mount it at a specific point , hover to mount it at boot , have you looked at the <URL> application ? Make RAM Disk is an application that provides an easy way to create , format , and mount a RAM disk in one shot . If you add the application to your Login Items it will automatically create the RAM disk at each boot . PS : Tested this on OSX Lion without any issues . For completeness sake the following is from the Readme File : How do I use it ? Just run it . By default , it creates a 64-MiB RAM disk named " RAM Disk " . Can I have it create a RAM disk on startup/login ? Yes . Add it to your Login Items in the Accounts pane of System Preferences . How do I get rid of the RAM disk ? Click on the Eject ( ⏏ ) button next to its name in the Finder 's sidebar . Alternatively , use Disk Utility ( in / Applications/Utilities ) to eject it . I want to create a bigger or smaller RAM disk or to create it with a different name . How do I do that ? Hold down the Option key while launching Make RAM Disk ; it will present a window wherein you can change the size or name of the volume . If the " Save settings for next time " checkbox is checked , the settings you enter here will be saved ( obviously ) ; if not , they are forgotten just before quitting . Remember : the Option key for the Options window . Can I change the options without actually creating a RAM disk ? Yes . As long as the box is checked , the options will be saved , whether you create a RAM disk or not .
You will need to edit the rEFIt configuration file . Since version 0.14 , the configuration file has supported adding a default boot selection , as documented in the <URL> . However , there is n't very clear documentation on how exactly to do this on rEFIt 's website . You could just open the conf file , or view the default on their SVN repo <URL> . This <URL> does have an example and some documentation that I 've used before in a similar situation . You 'll want to use the digit option instead of the OS type option ( 1-N , vs L , W , M ) .
you can always use <URL> page to submit any kind of request . if you have this problem in our own iTunes Library , it is easy to assign a new cover to the song or album by just dragging the cover to it or using the option , you know how to do this right ? if you install Last.fm app you can simple play a song and then drag the last.fm cover into the artwork of the iTunes song .
Burn it with Disk Utility by adding ISO file to left pane , then choose it and press Burn on a toolbar . And that is it .
<URL> your USB stick , to be bootable , must be setup for <URL> / GPT .
end question
start question
How to create nested folders in iCloud Documents ?
I 'm afraid not . iCloud is designed for iOS devices without a user accessible file system . iCloud files are strictly associated with apps and only allow one level of folder nesting . If you 're not happy with this , you can send feedback to Apple about it here : <URL> You could use Dropbox instead ( https://www.dropbox.com/ ) which has more flexibility around file organisation . The downside is that you only get 2GB free but you can earn more free storage in various ways . Google Drive ( https://drive.google.com/start#home ) gives you 5GB free .
Simply drag the folder to the desired position in the sidebar . This adds the folder to the sidebar in every current and future Finder window , as well as Finder Open/Save windows/sheets . Removal is done by dragging the folder from the sidebar out to the side .
2 solutions to color tag files : <URL> <URL>
There is not a native way to do this in iOS , but there are many possibilities for workarounds . Here 's one : Set up <URL> and install the helper app on your iDevice . Create a rule in Boxcar telling the helper app to get a push notification every time a message is received at the forwarding address provided . If you need help with this , see <URL> . Create a rule ( or whatever they 're called in your email service ) which automatically forwards folders ' new messages to the Boxcar address . If this fix does n't suit you , you may want to do a similar thing with <URL> .
I 'm running OSX under VMWare , and as long as you do n't run the VM in full screen , Display Preferences shows the screen size as the current window size , minus any host window borders . With this you can resize the window manually to get close to the resolution you require . The caveat to this is that you ca n't " set " the screen size to an exact amount , but with a bit of playing about you can get the resolution within a few pixels . You will need a monitor with a larger resolution as the VM window does take away some pixels , so if your monitor is only 1280 wide , you will never get a full 1280 width with this method .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
You can not treat iCloud as some sort of internet filesystem like Dropbox . The only way to place data into the iCloud system is via an iCloud enabled app . There is no generic way to access your iCloud files except via the application that put the files there in the first place . So , in order to use iCloud , use iCloud enabled apps . Use the same apps on 2 or more Macs , and that is how you share docs/data . I 'm not sure when the Mac iWork apps will get iCloud , I suspect in the next version which is now sorely overdue .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
You can create two folder actions , one for images : one for videos : Both should be setup to receive files from Downloads folder . The first step filters images and videos files . The second step moves those files in the appropriate folder . Be sure that folder action is attached to your directory ( right click on directory , ) . To let Automator wait for the download to complete , you can add a step , before the step , similar to this :
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
The same things happens to me . After some digging around I found this <URL> : Important : You can not download a document from icloud.com to your Mac or Windows computer until the document has been opened on an iOS device . My guess is that this is a symptom of iCloud 's " work in progress " status , and that this functionality will eventually be there . Considering that you are only asking to download the exact same file that you uploaded , though , it is a pretty silly restriction . Update : For me , the behavior has recently changed . Now if you upload a file from your computer to icloud.com , you can download the original file to any computer from icloud.com . You still must download the document to an iOS device before you can download the file as a PDF or other format .
In the bundle editor window , choose File ' New ( or Cmd + N ) and you 'll get a sheet like this : Just choose ' Snippet ' from that drop down .
If the folders are the same name , drag one to the location of the other , and BEFORE releasing the mouse or trackpad , hold down the key . You will be presented with three options , one of which is to Merge .
Krumelur Mail.app used to be able to see Public Folders on Exchange , but no longer has this ability . Outlook 2011 and Entourage both support this feature .
I found the answer : log out of MobileMe in the System Prefs panel , and then the iCloud panel will prompt you to log in ( instead of offering the " Move to iCloud " button ) . Log in with your iCloud account and you should be all set . Worked perfectly for me .
It turns out that an IOS5 device is n't required ; you can create the account with a computer running Lion . The trick is to create yourself an Apple ID ( I used iTunes but there may be other ways , perhaps a free Developer account ? ) . Then use Lion 's iCloud pane to create an iCloud account with the ID . With iCal , create an iCloud calendar . Now delete the calendar from the Lion machine . Buy the Lion machine 's owner a beer or flowers as appropriate , or thank the Apple store genius . :) Go to your Snow Lion machine , log into iCloud.com and change the account password .
Tap Settings and then tap the iCloud icon . Tap " Storage &amp; Backup . " Tap Manage Storage . Tap your iOS device in the Backups area . Under Backup Options , turn off any items that you no longer wish to back up . Return to Storage &amp; Backup and tap " Back up now . " This will immediately remove the requested backup data from iCloud . Choose " Delete Backup " if you want to turn off Backup and remove all data for that Backup from iCloud . ( via <URL> )
Download Apple file conduit " 2 " from cydia , Once you do you will be able to see everything that you want such as / var in Ifunbox in the raw system files section
end question
start question
How does the Apple Watch < - > macOS Sierra unlock feature work in detail ?
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
Oh , Yes it does work . I have personally tried it . So , go ahead .
I think the source of your confusion is the difference between traditional text messages ( SMS ) and iMessages ( Apple 's own protocol ) . Messages on the Mac does n't support SMS . Any message you send or receive on your iPhone as SMS wo n't show up in Messages on the Mac . If you send a message as an iMessage , though , then it 'll show up on the Mac . Now here 's where it gets confusing : even though iMessages are " data " and not " text , " they can be sent between phone numbers . If you 've got iPhones at both ends , a " text " sent from one to the other will be sent as an iMessage by default . These messages will then appear in Messages on the Mac .
The activity recorded on the Apple Watch is separate from the activity recorded on the iPhone . As such each is recorded as a separate source in health.app . Also only activity recorded on the Apple Watch is reflected in activity.app . Source : <URL> - Apple Software Engineer <URL>
It checks what Wifi networks are in range and then looks up their locations in a big database of known Wifi access points -- I think Apple use the <URL> database .
Apple Watch bands fit the watch based on its size , either 38MM or 42MM , and are interchangeable between both series , however at the present time Apple only sells the Apple Watch , either series , with a band . There is no SKU available in the computer to order without a band . This information is current as of this moment having just contacted Apple sales directly , at the local Apple Store , seeking to purchase an Apple Watch without a band .
As far as I can tell its just means as long as it 's connected via bluetooth and in range . There is n't a Touch ID scanner on the watch or anything like that so I do n't think that it forms an knid of " signature " to you .
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
Submitting apps built with beta versions of an OS or beta versions of Xcode are not officially supported , but you can <URL> by changing the OS version prior to archiving the app inside Xcode .
Initially Apple used the phone number as the FaceTime " account " and non-user-visible SMS validation as the " password " to avoid forcing end users to enter/remember/forget yet another set of credentials . The SMS validation happens behind the scenes - but SMS does have to be active on the phone at the time of first verifying ( and potentially when re-verifying ? ) your FaceTime account on Apple 's servers . If you switch off FaceTime in the Phone settings , wait a few seconds and turn it back on - you can see this checking process . The status message will change to say " Waiting for activation ... " until Apple 's servers verify your account . Once it says " Your phone number will be shared with people you call with FaceTime . " the account is verified . You can now use AppleID for credentials for devices that do not have SMS and an easily accessed/understood phone number . SMS is needed one time at activation to ensure Apple 's push notification goes to the correct device - there should n't be a problem dropping SMS later once the device is registered . This data lets the address book facilitate dialing and location over WiFi . Apple runs servers that let each device check in and request to initiate a call if the receiver is online anywhere . There is no technical reason why FaceTime can not use cellular data for the call ( bits are bits ) but in practice the carriers would probably have to charge more for supporting everyone video chatting on networks that are currently straining to contain the data already flowing over them . On devices that allow an email address - if someone calls you - all the devices currently on ring but only one picks up . For example , it 's possible to receive incoming FaceTime calls ringing on a Mac , an iPod touch and an iPad - and any one can pick up the " call " .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
Apple provide a support article to help improve Activity 's accuracy , <URL> : Bring your iPhone and your Apple Watch . Find an open , flat area outside that offers good GPS reception and clear skies . Make sure that Location Services is on . To check the setting on your iPhone , tap Settings > Privacy > Location Services . Make sure that Motion Calibration &amp; Distance is on . To check the setting on your iPhone , tap Settings > Privacy > Location Services > System Services . Hold your iPhone in your hand , or attach it to your body with an armband ( preferably ) or waistband . Open the Workout app on your Apple Watch , and choose Outdoor Walk or Outdoor Run . Choose your goal , or select Open , and tap Start . Walk or run at your normal pace for about 20 minutes . You may find Adam C. Engst 's <URL> insightful . Adam is a serious runner and he too noted the difference in distances measured : Accelerometer -- Happily , the Apple Watch does have an accelerometer that enables it to detect your steps , from which it can determine both distance and pace , even if you 're not carrying your iPhone . It calibrates itself when you use it with the iPhone around , and I 'm impressed at how accurate it can be . After a few runs , its numbers match quite closely with those collected by my Garmin and with the quarter-mile markings on San Francisco 's Bay Shore Trail , where I was running recently . Unfortunately , accuracy drops significantly if you run uphill ( where your stride is shorter ) or faster than normal ( where it will be longer ) .
The option is hidden behind a long/hard press - so not easily discoverable : Tap on the Activity app from your Apple Watch 's Home screen . Swipe left until you see the Move ring . Press firmly on the screen . Tap on Change Move Goal . Adjust your move goal to whatever you 'd like and tap Update . Source : <URL> The calorie goal is the only configurable goal .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
The reason for moving your device in a figure eight is to help it calibrate itself against magnetic interference . By moving it slightly its able to detect the differences and return a more accurate reading . You can read the Apple knowledge base article <URL>
Today I wore my Apple Watch on the inside of my wrist while weight lifting . I tightened it one additional notch compared to how I normally wear it during daily activities . Otherwise I had noticed that it would often lose my heart rate , even on the top of my wrist . This usually happened when my arms were vertical and/or the particular exercise required me to twist my wrists . I am happy to report my heart rate was detected without skipping a beat . The main downside is Activate On Wrist Raise is very finicky . I suppose that is to be expected since the Watch assumes it 's being worn on the top of your wrist . Possibly-relevant piece of information : I am Vietnamese with fairly light skin on the inside of my wrist . Your mileage may vary if you have darker skin . Also note that I 'm only verifying the proper function of the heart rate monitor . I have n't tested distance or step count estimates while wearing the device this way , although I do n't see why that should affect those functions . Edit : I tried again the following day and the Watch lost my pulse on occasion , on either side of my wrist , even when tightened as much as possible . I slid the Watch up my wrist a little and my pulse was detected correctly again . I think this is because when the Watch is too low , movements of your hand tug on the skin and make it harder to measure your blood flow .
For window arranging : <URL> $ 13 <URL> $ 14 <URL> $ 8 <URL> Free <URL> $ 20 <URL> $ 14 <URL> $ 7 <URL> $ 10
Things definitely have changed : ⌥ ⌘ ⏏ ( Cmd-Option-Eject ) to put your machine to sleep no longer works in Sierra . Supposedly , ⌃ ⏏ ( Ctrl-Eject ) has taken its place , but it does n't work on my late-2012 iMac . At least according to the documentation , that is the only change - compare below . Sadly , you can not bring the old shortcut back ( at all ? ) , because defining keyboard shortcuts in does n't allow you define shortcuts involving ⏏ ( Eject ) , and , in fact , even shortcuts that are permissible do not seem to put the machine to sleep ( flickers briefly , but stays awake ) . Sleep-related shortcuts as of macOS Sierra : Source : <URL> <URL> Sleep-related shortcuts as of OS X El Capitan : Source ( link effectively dead , redirects to the Sierra page ) : <URL> <URL>
In a nutshell , iOS sets up a persistent connection to the Apple Push Notification ( APN ) servers if you elect to use iMessage , iCloud , Notifications or other push services . From there , the phone checks in with the servers anytime it has a network connection and listens for messages that the servers wish to push to your device . Furthermore , iOS then registers which applications on your phone should get specific messages . All the messages pass through the notification center system in case you have elected for them to be posted to specific places such as the lock screen , the notification tray or just passed off to the end application for each message as appropriate . That 's it . There 's a server . ( likely many behind a load balancer ) There 's a connection that your device opens to the server . Things can then arrive through the connection .
end question
start question
How to avoid apps being re-arranged when synching with iTunes ?
You could disable App syncing completely on the apps tab . Then iTunes will not sync the apps anymore and so it wo n't re-arrange them . The drawback is that new apps wo n't be downloaded to your Mac/PC anymore . So in case you have to restore your iPhone using iTunes you will have to re-download all the apps . But as your purchases are connected to your Apple ID you will not loose the apps . They 're just not stored on your Mac/PC .
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
This is for iTunes 11.4 , but I think it 's the same in 11.3 and other versions around here , for anyone looking . I had this issue too , because there is n't enough space on my iDevices to update in place . Open iTunes , make sure you 're in " Library " and not the Store . At the top left there 's a drop down menu , it defaults to " Music " . Use it to select " Apps " . Then in the top center area below the status box that shows sync progress and the like is " Updates " . Click that , then " Update All Apps " in the bottom right of the window . Presto , utilizing your computer 's network connection and hard drive for better app updating .
Fan speeds are related to the temperature of your laptop . If you 're just interested in monitoring the temps , <URL> ( $ 16 ) has an excellent temperature monitor that sits in your menu bar and can track any of the dozen temperature sensors built into your MBP . There are various free apps which purport to allow you to control your Apple laptop fan speeds . <URL> <URL> <URL> -- seems to be out of date , wo n't run on Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) EDIT : After looking at those in depth , it appears that they let you increase fan speeds , but otherwise do n't interfere with Apple 's built-in fan controls . You might try running the fans at high speeds just before recording to cool your machine , then shut them off when you start recording . Then , if the fans come on during recording , you 've done the best you could , and you 'll just have to record in shorter segments if fan noise is an issue . I 've found that the best solution to keeping my computer cool and the fans off , even when really tasking the processor , is to put it on a little stand to allow plenty of airflow underneath . Personally , I swear by <URL> -- I 've been using them with my Apple " pro " laptops since 2004 -- but there are many alternatives . Finally , I 'm not sure what you 're recording , but you could try using a directional USB microphone to eliminate extraneous noise from your recording environment . There are many excellent options on Amazon for under $ 100 ( be sure it is Mac-compatible before purchasing ) .
If you go in to iTunes and go to Preferences - > Devices , and check the box that says Prevent iPods , iPhones , and iPads from syncing automatically .
Rob , basically I do n't think your a ) and b ) answers are right . a ) . As far as my iTunes Pop-Up says ( it 's in German ) , my whole iPhone gets wiped and the stuff replaced . Replaced in this case seems not to be " add to " / " overwrite existing " . b ) . iTunes 10 helped me put this to the test . Actually it " previews " the whole process it seems , before I click " Apply " . Which I wo n't ( yet ) , as it obviously wipes my existing 33 folders and only leaves 10 folders ! I wonder why ? Screenshots : <URL> and <URL> . Now that does n't look like what we all want . I assume Apple just offers no way . I just wonder is there no way to backup the phone now and use this backup ? I frankly never occupied my mind with the backup files created . Sadly I just reinstalled Windows 7 a few weeks ago - and I frankly did n't backup those " backup " files ...
iWork for Mac , at the time of writing of this post , has not been updated to work with iCloud . Last version on the App Store came out in July , 20th , and does not have iCloud integration . Meanwhile , you can upload and download documents from <URL> , which is a web interface to iCloud . The process is described in <URL> .
Just found <URL> on Lifehacker . I think it 's exactly what you 're looking for . The post talks about a patch called MMFix , which changes the media control daemon to stop exactly this from happening . Apparently , it comes with a one-click installer . And , if some reason you would like to remove the patch , just run the one-click installer again and the original rcd daemon will be restored . ( Works on OS X 10.7 Lion , too ! )
From testing , it seems you ca n't break that link without having to re-download . Since the change requires you to synchronize the phone , you will need to re-download the files from the phone once you 've un-ticked the box , since the synchronize does remove the applications completely . Unfortunately the answer to your question is right now there is n't a default way , but I suspect it will become possible in future iTunes versions . I have looked for possible hacks to do this and have yet to find one that does n't require jail breaking to copy the files back .
What starsky_70 is saying is that it is likely that the external drive is formatted NTFS , and out of the box NTFS is read only on Mac OS X . But if you formatted it exFAT then it would be read/write on both operating systems without the need for additional software .
I have a copy of Leopard that came with the MacBook . However it fails checksums . You can try to repair the disc using <URL> method . Never done it but the author claims he has , and it worked for him . Your mileage may vary . I have an upgrade copy of Snow Leopard on DVD . ( Unsurprisingly ? ) the MacBook wo n't install from it . You seem to have bad luck with physical media . From <URL> ( and Diago below ) , the Snow Leopard upgrade disc contains a full installer , allowing the installation even over a system without any OS whatsoever . If it fails to boot , it could likely be damaged . I have a full copy of Snow Leopard for Mac Mini - I tried to install and it says it does n't work on MacBooks . That is also correct . Minis ( like many of the machines Apple manufacturers ) come with their own specific versions of OS X . The Mac minis , like the MacBook Airs ship with special versions that differ from the ones you purchase through other channels . Therefore , you can not use an installation disc from a MacBook Pro on a MacBook or iMac . I have a new MacBook Air with Lion preinstalled . Apple machines that ship with Lion can not be transferred to other devices . If you purchases Lion through the Mac App Store , you could install it on any Mac ( except those that ship with them of course ) . In all honesty , the best advice I could give you is to book an appointment at one of your local Apple Stores and speak to a Genius . Tell them your situation ( bring in the machine and the Tiger installation disc ) . They 'll either give you a Snow Leopard installation for free or boost you up to Lion . I 'm not sure if they will give you a free USB Stick , but they 'll do something for you . I guarantee that .
Before Family Sharing , you could take someone else 's iOS device and sign in to the app store with your account and download all/any apps you choose . At that point , your password was needed to update , but signing out did n't delete the apps or in any other way prevent them from working . Let 's set aside in-app purchases for the time being . Family sharing changes this in that when someone joins the " family " - their Apple ID is used to download and update other family member apps . They do not show up in your purchases , they show up as the other named family member 's purchase . All that changes is the password needed to install and update . When you as a family member remove yourself from the plan - you get a warning that lists what will happen and basically , you immediately lose access to the purchases , photos , calendars and other items that were shared in the plan . Rejoining the family would then let you re-download and re-sync the items . You 'll probably want to find a better way to use the family service than routinely joining and leaving or skip the family share and use the older method of signing in to multiple devices which does n't immediately remove/revoke the items .
According to <URL> , you just need to rename the following file : to something else and it will not show up anymore .
You can disable the XProtect updates in , and there uncheck the box " Automatically update safe downloads list . " Now you can change the version info in
If you switch PowerPoint to display mode first , then switch to a mac app ( using command-tab ) , then turn off mirroring , the setting should then stick . Otherwise , as you found out , Microsoft is sure nobody but powerpoint needs display mode . In case some reader does n't know how to turn off mirroring : If you go into " System Preferences/Display Preferences " Arrangement tab ( only present when connected to a second display ) , uncheck the box that says " Mirror Displays " . Also , on the bottom of the Display Preferences pane , you can check " Show displays in menu bar " to access this setting more easily without going into preferences .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
There are several complicated and time-limited things that are causing apps like Tweetbot to very likely get all shut down by Twitter in the near future . My impression is the high price of <URL> not only reflects the high cost that the developers spent to make such a complicated and design intensive app , but also to discourage too many people from " trying " it out as well as a calculation that they need to make their investment back sooner rather than later due to the uncertainty of being dependent on Twitter 's API rule changes . Twitter is in the process of shutting down all third party apps that replicate what you see at <URL> in terms of showing you the timeline . <URL> In a nutshell - in the last 12 months , Twitter has been telling developers to not make apps like Tweetbot since they <URL> and the 100,000 user token limit is really making it impossible for a team of talented professionals to recoup their costs without charging for an app since you need way more than 100,000 users to make money on data or advertising . Twitter wants to make money , developers want to make money , so at the moment the development of great , free twitter apps is n't exactly a hotbed of innovation in 2012 like it was in the past . Many in the development community had assumed that Twitter would bend the rules when their app was n't ready , but with the Windows 8 release , they shut down the most popular client when it hit 100,000 user-tokens even though Twitter does n't even have a windows 8 client ( perhaps yet ) . When that happened , I imagine a lot of projects are being dropped or at least halted . Not only is Twitter putting hard limits on third party app growth , it also is getting more and more exacting in telling these devs <URL> ( with the implied threat that they will shut down those apps if they fail to comply to Twitter 's exact design standards which include serving all promotional content ) So , now that a brief back story is complete , here is your answer : The following OS X twitter clients have been viewed to broadly and/or fully support retina display Macs : <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> Both <URL> and <URL> have free downloads so you can try them both before buying . Check all of them as one is on sale now for half price and prices can change over time . All of the above render text with great precision and have all or many of the app 's graphics in retina . Of course the twitter stream has many non-retina people thumbnails , etc. . .
From Apple website : You can begin using Swift code immediately to implement new features in your app , or enhance existing ones . New Swift code co-exists along side your existing Objective-C files in the same project , making it easy to adopt . And when iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite are released this fall , you can submit your apps to the App Store and Mac App Store . ref : <URL>
I do n't know if there 's a difference in Canada , but here in the US if you select the Purchased tab in iTunes , it now appears to be split into 3 sections . Music , Movies and TV Shows . This more apparent on the iPhone . On the iPad in the upper left corner is a tab indicating " View : Music " . If you tap it you can change to Movies or TV Shows .
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
end question
start question
What kind of encryption does Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled , Encrptyed ) use ?
Yes - it 's the same whole disk encryption . In both instances you end up with a volume wrapper and key storage to unlocks the encrypted file system where the data is safely stored . Disk Utility is a bit of a chore to set up encryption of an external drive , so I usually just wipe the drive and set it for Backups and then tell Time Machine to encrypt the drive . It handles the formatting , generating the crypto keys and lets you choose a passphrase to unlock the keys . You can use from the command line ( in terminal.app ) to show the encryption status and details . There 's nothing wrong with disk utility other than the steps involved to reach an equivalent drive setup . Here is what a fully encrypted and locked USB drive looks like when you set up Time Machine and instruct it to encrypt backups to an external drive :
There 's <URL> for a hefty $ 28.95 , though you might find a cheaper one by shopping around .
first , on unix is the location for stuff like that . second , it 's much easier to type as it is in lower case . so , not so unreasonable decision by apple 's engineers .
The other answer seems to be correct about the file system being HFSX , but on being case-insensitive ( other answer since edited to correct ) , I found that not to be the case in the book <URL> . On page 23 it says : In iOS , being the case sensitive HFSX by default , case is not only preserved , but allows for multiple files to have the same name , albeit with a different case . Naturally , case sensitivity means typos produce a totally different command or file reference , often a wrong one . [ emphasis above is mine ] Since that did n't agree with the other answer , I sought confirmation . I loaded a sample iOS project I was working on and changed the name of the database to only differ by case . After running the app on my iPad mini ( iOS 6.1 ) to re-create the database , I went into iTunes and looked at the files under File Sharing for the application . Here 's what I saw : So , it would appear Mac OS X and iOS Internals is correct : case is preserved and allows for multiple files to have the same name . Interestingly , when I selected both files in iTunes ' File Sharing and clicked " Save to ... " my desktop , I did not get any warning . iTunes apparently " saved " both files to my desktop , but only the initial-uppercase version survived ( presumably overwriting the initial-lowercase version of the file . )
So far the only risk I 've found is that some applications will overwrite the custom extended attributes . TextEdit is one such example . It will remove the attribute and add a quarantined attribute in its place , which will cause the Finder to give you a warning ( that it was downloaded from the internet ) when you open it . So if you do n't want to lose the metadata you 've added to your custom attributes , do n't open in unsafe applications like TextEdit . TextMate and SublimeText 2 and do n't damage your data , however . ( And as for name collisions , just follow the reverse DNS naming that Java uses . For example ' com.yourdomain.yourcustomname ' . )
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
Apple Mail allows importing from . mbox files ( see the import option in the File menu ) . I do n't know how well it supports the other requirements you 've listed but it might be worth a try .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
You may want to give Mac OS X 10.4.11 a try . Reference : <URL>
The PowerPC and Intel Macs are totally different architectures , so you are correct , you could only really emulate a PowerPC install on an intel machine , versus virtualize Windows/Mac OS/Linux on a intel machine . There are some PowerPC emulators , but the one I know of for OS X would be <URL> . I have used PearPC a very long time ago , and do n't know how well these work on newer machines . Up until Lion however , at least PowerPC software was emulated using <URL> . This was dropped in Lion though . If you really do need a PowerPC machine , for dedicated work , I would personally buy a used older machine from ebay , which would be rather inexpensive depending on what kind of power you need . Note : Removed iEmulator because its made more for emulating windows or linux on a intel OR PPC mac .
According to a <URL> , FileVault 2 is not FIPS 140-2 validated , but " Apple 's new Common Crypto implementation is just starting to undergo FIPS evaluation " The code itself for Common Crypto is available at <URL> and has been all the way back to 10.4 ( where I got tired of checking revisions - it probably goes back even further , but what matters is the code shipped in Lion which is available for all three lion releases 10.7 , 10.7.1 and 10.7.2 )
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
If you 're just looking for the Unicode versions of Mac OS X keys , you can use <URL> to copy and paste them from the text box . More generally , Mac OS X provides a pane to insert special characters . You 'll typically find it under Edit - > Special Characters in any program that takes text input . The Command key symbol can be found under Symbols - > Technical Symbols . To insert the character , select it and click " Insert " . If you 're really hardcore and are looking for a way to type the character by entering the Unicode hex code , this is possible : Go into System Preferences - > Language &amp; Text - > Input Sources and check " Unicode Hex Input " 2 . From the input source selector in the menu bar , select " Unicode Hex Input " 3 . To enter a Unicode character , hold down option and type the 4-digit hex code for the character and it will be inserted . In this case , it would be option +2318 .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
The path is on both Snow Leopard and Lion . Note that you ca n't see the Library in your home folder ( as it is hidden by default ) . You can type in in Terminal to make it appear permanently , or hold down ⌥ Option while in the " Go " menu of Finder .
Where the list of disabled fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you are using . First of all , the and have never been used by Apple for the handling of disabled fonts ; rather , fonts are simply deactivated in place : there 's no need to move them out of the / Fonts / folder in order to deactivate them . Those folders are most likely created by the Microsoft Office installer for Mac , or some other application installer . As I mentioned , where the list of deactivated fonts is stored depends on the version of OS X you 're using . OS X 10.3 : stores a list of file paths to the fonts which have been disabled in Font Book . OS X 10.4 -- 10.6 : The enabled or disabled state of a particular font is stored within the font cache files themselves . There is no saved external record ( like the preference file used in 10.3 ) of which fonts were disabled . In OS X 10.7.x and later , while the enabled or disabled state of a particular font is still stored within the font cache files themselves , an external record of which fonts were disabled is stored in .
You can install Soundflower . It 's a great utility that creates virtual input and output devices . So you could route QuickTime player , for example , as the input for the dictation . <URL>
Apple did stop shipping Java as of 10.7 and higher . Neither the JDK nor the JRE come preinstalled . However , the first time you need a JRE , Mac OS X will offer to download and install it for you ( via the Software Update mechanism ) . Similarly , is stubbed in a base OS X install and will trigger the install process . Note that the Apple JRE/JDK is Java 1.6 -- if you need 1.7 or 1.8 , you 'll need to <URL> .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
end question
start question
How to disable animations on iPhone ?
The only way I 'm aware of to do this is to use a jailbreak tweak called Springtomize . Apple will not allow you to do this natively since it affects the aesthetic quality of the device . That 's just Apple !
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
Open a terminal ( e.g. Terminal.app ) and write then press Enter . Any open applications will still use the " Press and Hold " , but if you quit them and then open them again they should work as expected ( use key repeat instead of " Press and Hold " ) . Reference : <URL>
You can change this in System Preferences . Go to the Sound pane , and uncheck the checkbox . Also , if you want to not play the sound for a given change ( a one-off thing ) , hold down shift and change the volume . This will also play the sound if it 's turned off .
Whilst it 's not ideal , if it 's that bad you could disable the app bounce notification completely for all apps : To revert , replace with . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
You should probably use another app for screensharing and messaging . If you choose to do this , I reccomend <URL> for messaging and <URL> for screensharing . I searched the contents of the whole iChat application , and I could n't find anything , which leads me to believe that the pop up ( I 've had it too ) is not actually part of the iChat application , but used by iChat .
To disable deep sleep , run the following command in Terminal : This is a description of " standby " ( deep sleep ) from the pmset man page : Battery savings depend on how much time your Mac spends in standby . While in standby mode , your Mac consumes 0 power , it 's as if it is shut down ( note : not taking Power Nap into consideration ) . My personal recommendation would be to set the " standbydelay " value to something bigger . 2 hours , for example . This means that if you open the lid back in less than 2 hours , your Mac would be in regular sleep and wake up instantly . If longer than 2 hours , your Mac would enter standby mode and consume no power , and waking up will take a bit longer . Example for 2 hours :
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
According to this <URL> this is standard for most users . But there is Jailbreak solution with external app called Insomnia <URL> is an iPhone native application that , when enabled , will prevent the iPhone from sleeping , thus overriding its default behavior . This allows background applications to continue to run and WiFi to work long after the screen has been switched off . ( The iPhone 's default behavior is to sleep 30 seconds after the screen has gone off , when not docked and charging that is ) . Downside of this is your cpu etc is still running so battery will go down quickly . There is also a <URL> for Cisco VPN with SBSetting with Jailbreak that might work for non-Cisco software ( as in the built-in VPN ) but as I have n't tested it it 's hard to say :-) It may be that the blog mentions the built-in VPN but I ca n't verify it myself . It 's not clear whether it mentions Cisco app or the built-in VPN ( and just names it Cisco VPN ) .
The SSD is not soldered to the motherboard , it just has a new , unique connector . You can get in there and detach it . Check iFixit for instructions , and beware that such may void your warranty . And if the Pro is recent enough , it may indeed work to install on there and transfer to the Air .
You ca n't do it natively , and you ca n't do it through an App Store app . You 'll have to jailbreak and search for a blacklist app on Cydia . Of course you can disable SMS and/or MMS entirely on the device , but the iPhone and iOS is designed to have blocking enforced from the cell carrier and not the device . Until and unless your local carrier offers an iOS app so that you can self-block addresses , you 'll need to modify iOS by jailbreaking to have SMS suppressed once they reach the iPhone hardware and software .
Disable the LaunchAgent ( not LaunchDaemons ) and reboot your machine ( without sudo ) : In case you want to enable it again at one point :
Just use the Keyboard pane of System Preferences . Click " Modifier Keys " , and set " Caps Lock " to " No Action " .
Safari > Prefs > Privacy > Website use of Location services :
Open Safari and go to Preferences , then click on the Advanced tab . There 's a checkbox at the bottom titled " Show Develop menu in menu bar " . Check that then close the Preferences window . You 'll notice that in your menu bar between Bookmarks and Window you have a menu called Develop . Near the bottom of that menu list is Disable Images -- click it . Now your browsing experience is image free !
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
Turned out this was being caused by a faulty touch pad . Not an entirely uncommon problem apparently . Hope this helps someone .
You can still compress a video and bypass Mail Drop when you compose a new email and manually attach the video ( by long clicking email body ) .
I think you might be talking about the Notification Center . Does it look like the pictures in this <URL> page ? If so , go to Settings - > Notifications - > Calendar , and turn off ' Notification Centre ' .
Have you tried opening Terminal ( Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal ) and using the commands : or As it is not working try the hosts file : And look for something like this delete the entire block and hit CTRL + O to save the file and CTRL + X to exit . Everything you put at hosts file like : Those addresses will be blocked , you will not be able to access them while they are inside the hosts file To stop and delete SelfControl running as a background process : To delete the firewall rules that have been introduced by SelfControl , read this blog article by Steve Lambert : <URL>
end question
start question
Can I configure a fixed IP address on my iPhone ?
It 's in the network settings : Wi-Fi join your network if needed tap the blue right arrow Select Static instead of DHCP/BootP and enter in the fixed IP you prefer Visit <URL> if you want pictures to guide you to the network settings part of the settings app . This only works on Wi-Fi since your carrier issues you an IP address . You could also use a VPN profile to tunnel all traffic to a fixed IP if you had a router / server set up to provide that sort of IP / DHCP to iOS devices .
This morning , I updated to iOS 8.3 and the Activity app now appears on the last page of the home screen . So I would try to either update to iOS 8.3 or restart the phone if you 're having this problem .
This is not possible , nor was it possible with Mobile Me . Particularly irritating when a number of people share an iPad and do n't want to enable full email for each other for example . I 'm afraid there is no way around it , unless perhaps you can download a different browser from the App Store that will enable you to change your user agent string to trick the website into thinking you are using Firefox or something that is n't mobile safari .
When you do this , you should get a dropdown selection box that has your various email addresses in it . You can choose in there . If your gmail does n't show up there , then go to iPhoto in the menu , click Preferences , click Accounts , click the plus , click Email , click Add , click Gmail , and provide the relevant info .
I can think of a variety of methods to do what you want , but none of them are easy solutions . You 'll probably need to write some code . This question should be tagged PBX , but that is too obscure for this site . You 'll probably want installed to control the G5 modem . Get it via or . If you can use minicom to check the number without answering , then you are mostly done . If it does n't match , ignore it . If it does match , you 'll need to find some way for minicom to answer/forward/pass the incoming call out the modem out line . I 'm not yet sure how to do this . If minicom needs to answer the call in order to determine where it came from , then the situation is as above , but you might need two modems . If it is a call for the security center , pass it out one modem . If it is n't , pass it out the other , which goes to your home phone I presume . If minicom can not determine the number , or if can but has to answer in order to check it and this is problematic , then I would get a caller ID display , put it in next to the G5 , and use a webcam to read the numbers off the caller ID . <URL> would help with this part , or any script-able optical character recognition ( OCR ) software . You can get from fink or macports too , and that might be sufficient . Determine the number and if it should go to the security console , have minicom patch it through . But , why do you need to call in ? If your G5 is at home and online , it might be easier to not call into the security system , but SMS or email yourself , have the G5 fetching the mail , and taking action based on that ( perhaps that action is using minicom to connect to the security system , but you do n't need a phone line to the outside world in this case ) .
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
All this hype about how to charge your batteries is blown out of proportion . Although some batteries ( I forget which types exactly ) can have longer lives if charged at " optimal " rates and temperatures , the reality seems to be that it does not extend the life by much . One of the research papers I read concluded something like if you charge your device at around 17 degrees from 0 % until 75 % full you can extend the lifespan by about 1/5 of the total life span . I have charged my devices for days at a time , and my iPod Nano has been plugged in for months , and holds a charge the same as my other nano ( I have two ) which almost never gets used and only charged ocasionally . In conclusion , just do whatever is convenient for you . EDIT : Here are some links to the apple pages related to their iPhone batteries : <URL> <URL>
iOS devices can not relay WiFi signals to other devices ( at least not without a jailbreak ) . To share a single WiFi login with several devices you need to set up a WiFi repeater . Airport Express is one device which can do that , <URL> is another one which I have successfully used for this purpose .
You can host your own calendar ( CalDAV ) and contact ( CardDAV ) server using Mac OS Server ' Leopard ' or Server ' Snow Leopard . ' These will sync over the Internet to iCal and Address Book on your Macs , and to your iOS devices . If you do n't want to get an expensive Mac Mini Server you could go with using an old retired notebook or even a virtual machine with a Linux installation . The open source project <URL> will provide you with both CalDAV and CardDAV services . I am personally using an installation of DAViCal too keep my Macs and iOS devices in sync using a older machine I have at home as the server . I would recommend this solution as you remain in control of your own data . Getting it up and running requires some work , but you would be able to congratulate yourself with the accomplishment . There are step-by-step tutorials for setting up both Linux and the DAViCAL software available .
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
The jailbreak does not affect the functionality of the phone except to allow MORE things to run on it , so there 's no reason to think it wo n't work for development .
<URL> can do this ( there 's a 99 cents ad-free version too ) . It 's supposed to let you just change http : / / to webshot : / / and it will open the same URL in in the app . That did n't work , but cut + paste did . There may be other apps which are better for certain needs , depending on what you want to actually do with the page . If you just want a JPG or PNG of it , Webshot Free works fine . If you are trying to save a page for reading later , <URL> ( $ 2 , universal ) will let you save a . webarchive or a . pdf file . [ Note : the print to pdf function is actually provided by 3rd party webapps , but it 's integrated into iCab ] . There are a variety of " Print to PDF " apps in the app store , <URL> , seems to be one of the better ones ( and is universal ) .
Finally found an answer to this , <URL> Create a standard playlist called " Not Missing " . Drag your entire library into that playlist . Missing tracks can not be copied to a playlist . Create a smart playlist called " Missing " where : Playlist - is not - Not Missing ( additional to this post ) Media type - is - Music You now have a playlist which contains only your songs with the dreaded exclamation mark , and you can re-add them from your original source .
It appears Spotlight does not make use of <URL> . Extra menu items added by Skype also fail to appear in the Spotlight preview . It is worth providing <URL> asking for this functionality to be added . It would greatly improve Spotlight . Context Menu in Contacts.app : Context Menu of Contact in Spotlight :
I am not aware of any apps that can do that . You certainly ca n't print handouts with the native printing menu . You could create the handout document on a computer and then click the " Save as PDF " option in the print dialogue . Then you could transfer the PDF handout file to your iPhone , which you could then print from there .
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
Actually , if you just want to remove the " @me " from the " from " drop down when creating an email ( I found this excruciatingly annoying ) , go to Preferences , Account Information , and then in the Email Address field , delete the " @me " address , so that only your cool . Mac is in there .
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
You certainly can make two or more physical drives into one volume that the OS sees . It 's referred to as a <URL> - and Disk Utility will erase both drives in preparation for a RAID - you can choose an actual RAID stripe or simple concatenation . Since Macs wo n't boot from a RAID volume without some additional hardware or extra software ( to handle the added complexity that RAID entails ) , you wo n't be able to use this for your boot volume . Even if you could , I would n't advise doing this since the OS decides where to store files inside any volume . If your goal is to control what files go to the SSD and which to the HDD - this does n't get you any closer to that goal . The good news is there is an excellent " Plan B " for you The best writing I have seen recently on how to both think about using a SSD with a HDD that also covers how exactly to implement a split was written recently by <URL> - He really knows his stuff in general and his article titled <URL> is great reading . Matt advocates installing the OS and most user data on the SSD place user data that wo n't fit on the SSD instead on the HDD implementing this by moving entire top level folders from the SSD home folder and placing them on the HDD . using soft ( sym ) links to connect the two locations . I hope that gives you a better solution to what I see as the major thrust to your question . You might also look at using Aliases ( OS X Finder 's enhanced version of a sym link that points at unique characteristics of the file as well as the path in case either gets moved and the system can figure out ( re-link ) to the correct/new location of the file . )
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
end question
start question
How to create new mysql user/db in Mac OS X ?
If you are using the terminal client , generally you can do things like reset the root users password for mysql or create databases . A simple example can be found at the <URL> , of which I will copy the highlights . To create a new MySQL user : Login to MySQL in Terminal : In the prompt : If you want to create a database : is all you need to do If you do decide to use mysqladmin , <URL> .
On newer OS X , you can access these advanced features from the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar . Hold shift and option ( only ) when clicking on the icon : <URL> The debug menu has most of the action oriented items you 'll need : <URL> I 've never seen resetting the module work better than powering it off , but I 'm sure theres cases where that saves a trip to the repair shop . Logging is useful , but the logs are very very large , so keep that in mind and set a reminder to turn it off tomorrow . On older OS , you needed a developer tool to systematically remove pairing records and HID devices . Bluetooth Explorer ships with Xcode 3 . ( as of today , early June 2011 - this is something available at no cost if you agree to the terms of the free developer program . It might also be bundled with Xcode 4 - available with paid download or paid mac developer program - but I ca n't vouch for that ) You can also browse the <URL> for free to learn more about bluetooth implementation . The explorer has a detailed window with many settings to automate resetting devices for testing . Here is a portion of the window showing that not only are the local mac settings cleared , it will reach out to Apple Bluetooth devices and reset their internal state as well . Since bluetooth has to start very soon in the boot process ( and is part of the setup assistant since new macs that have no accounts have to know how to set up Bluetooth keyboards and mouse out of the box ) it 's not just a simple user preference file but instead a system level preference and stored in several locations . You will be able to make your mac factory fresh to test bluetooth with the Bluetooth Explorer .
It will most likely still work , but there 's also a chance that it wo n't . No one can say until someone has tried it and even if you find someone who can confirm that it works for them , you should still be cautious as there is no guarantee that it will work for you . CourseNotes looks to have been abandoned by the developers . There have been no further updates on the <URL> or the developer 's <URL> or <URL> accounts since 2014 . This means that you should really think about how important the content that you have input into the app is to you and for how long you will want to continue to access it . If you have invested a lot into it and you want to continue to access the information long term , you need to look at how to migrate your data out of it and into something else . If you still want to upgrade your OS , you need to ensure that you have a backup that you can revert to if you find that after you update CourseNotes does n't work . The simplest thing to do is to create a bootable image of your computer 's hard drive onto an external hard drive . You will need an external hard drive that is at least as big as the space taken on your internal hard drive . You can create the image by using an app like <URL> or <URL> . Once the image backup is done , test it to make sure that you can boot your computer from it . Once this is done , you can complete the OS update and confirm if the app still works . If it does n't , boot from the external image drive and clone it back onto your internal drive .
You can press the option key to change the behaviour move instead of copy between different volumes copy instead of move on the same volume
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
I 've found that I can do this by editing the file . Just added : to , and after reopening bash my alias command worked just fine .
Is the service present and enabled in the Services section of Keyboard Preferences ? You should see this : If it 's not there for some reason , you can recreate it easily in Automator . Create a new Service in Automator , add the " New Mail Message " action to the workflow , and change the first drop down at the top so it reads " Service receives selected files and folders in any application " . It should look like this : Then save it , and you should have it available in your services menu .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
Assuming that the InstallESD.dmg is on the windows 7 computer : Copy the InstallESD.dmg file onto the USB drive ( just copy , not burning etc ) Boot into the MacBook 's Recovery Partition . Plug in the USB drive and open disk utility . Restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on the USB drive * Restart and boot from the USB Drive . * You might not be able to restore from an image that on the drive being restored . In which case use 2 USB drives ( one to copy the InstallESD.dmg from the PC and one to restore it to and boot from ) or : open terminal from the Utilities menu in the recovery partition ( on the homescreen ) . Use to find the location of your hard drive and USB drive Use to copy the InstallESD.dmg to you hard drive . ( e.g. , where you replace the paths with the ones found in step 2 ) Open Disk Utility and restore the USB drive using the InstallESD.dmg on your hard drive , if you ca n't find your hard drive in the Open dialog , press cmd + shift + g and you can enter the path manually . Or if your USB CD drive can burn DVDs and you have a DVD , you could use the USB drive to copy from windows and then use the Macbook 's Disk Utility to burn the image to the DVD . ( or use the DVD to copy from the PC and use the USB drive to boot )
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
Start with log files . You have a program in your folder called ; Fire that up , and it will show you a collection of log files - you should inspect these to see if there is anything obvious showing up at the time of your crashes . Once you have discovered something that looks odd , or consistent across your crashes , you can google it or ask again here .
So you can keep using your old 500GB HDD I would buy a cheap enclosure for it . They can be had with USB 2.0 for as little as $ 10 . Concerning the Software-Side , neither SuperDuper nor Carbon Copy Cloner are bad . Personally I , however , prefer Apple 's own Disk Utility . Simply boot from your Install DVD or Restore Partition ( if you use Lion ) , holding down the ALT key while you power on your machine . Both the Install DVD and the Restore Partition give you access to Disk Utility . There simply hit the Restore tab and drag and drop your Source an Destination volume accordingly . If you do not want to buy a new HDD enclosure simply clone your internal HDD to your spare external using the aforementioned way . Then replace your Book 's HDD with the SSD . And clone everything back to it .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Run the following command in Terminal ( it will create a symbolic link for all users ) : Or just for currently logged on user : Finder will appear in the applications list opened with Launchpad .
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
Apple wants you to buy the <URL> in order to upgrade from Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 to Snow Leopard . Technically , you the <URL> retail package will upgrade intel based Macs running Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 , however it is against the terms of the End User License Agreement ( EULA ) . The <URL> includes additional software that typically comes with a new Mac ( and some that does n't ) and it is recommended by Apple to ' upgrade your Mac experience ' because it is more like buying a new Mac than just upgrading the operating system . To hear it straight from Apple , here are the answers from Alan Eyzaguire , director of software product marketing at Apple Europe to this question . " We just think that Apple customers could really benefit from having those . They 're great software . " " it 's great when people get the full experience " " if you have Snow Leopard it 's great to have the latest iWork and iLife " " we wanted to make that [ upgrade ] as attractive as possible " " you get it almost for free " " it 's a steal ! " " Technically , yes , it would upgrade a Tiger install , but in the licensing , no . " ( <URL> )
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
You can use the ECM tools created by Neill Corlett , the creator of ECM . Just run " unecm " on the file . <URL> If that seems intimidating , there is a <URL> here that uses a GUI and contains links to the tools used .
end question
start question
What is your view using mac pro 8 core 8 GB system for software development ?
You will definitely get a performance boost by upgrading from the Linux box to the Mac Pro . However , I do n't believe that you 'll see a huge difference in terms of actual performance between that Mac Pro and , say , an iMac with a 3.6 Ghz i5 and 6 or 8 GB RAM . As long as you 're not doing a lot of gaming or other graphics-intensive or math-intensive things , the iMac should seem to the user almost as fast as the Mac Pro . There 's no harm getting the Pro , but I think you may as well save yourself the money ... As for running a VM , that 's easy . You can even , with <URL> or <URL> , run Windows apps and Mac apps side-by side . Other software to look into is <URL> ( free , supplied by Apple , restart required to switch systems ) and Sun/Oracle <URL> ( free , no restart required , some features missing ) . As for the learning curve : It 's not too bad . Lots of people make the transition . IIRC , 50 % of Mac purchases are first-time Mac users . Apple offers a <URL> guide to help you out . Also , if you 're used to Linux , you 'll catch on quickly . Besides , most of the CL stuff is the same , so you 'll always be at home there . As for SSDs : They 're really , really fast . You can see various tests and comparisons run by manufacturer OWC <URL> . For best shock value , <URL> where they race an SSD machine with an HDD one to boot and open apps from CS5 . It 's pretty amazing ... A cordial welcome to the world of Mac !
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
I ended up going with <URL> . Created a sparse-image disk via for about 100GB . Formatted it as a ZFS file system by following the instructions in the <URL> section . Turned compression ' on ' in ZFS via I tried booting a Windows XP VM off the ZFS file system and it worked . ZFS reports that it achieved a compression ratio of about 1.32 x ( which means my 10GB VM takes up about 6.6 GB on disk ) . Not sure how well VMWare will play with ZFS 's compression under high load , but it seems to working well so far .
Yes , RAID 0 is faster than using the drives independently of each other . Whether or not its noticeably faster depends on what kind of application you 're looking at . Some setups benefit hugely from a RAID 0 setup , while for others , its pretty marginal . There 's also the convenience of everything being treated like one big drive . I will however say that spreading your data like this has one huge disadvantage . You 've multiplied the number of potential points of failure by increasing the number of drives in your array , and the data is n't being protected by any sort of mirroring or large scale redundancy . When a RAID 0 array fails , it fails hard , and you 'd be well served by having a very robust backup scheme . For the record , my Mac Pro 's drive are not in a RAID configuration .
Windows 8 needs Boot Camp 5.1 Your Macbook can only run Boot Camp from DVD , not from USB [ same for any Superdrive-euipped Macbook ] &amp; also can , as far as I can tell , only run Boot Camp 4 . That means your only choices are Windows XP or Vista , 32-bit . See <URL>
I do n't know about the 7200 , but my mid-2010 MBP has the following ( from system profiler ) : I too had trouble with noise and vibration with a Seagate Momentus XT ( the hybrid drive ) . After reinstalling the stock drive it 's quiet and vibration free again .
To date , there are no 3rd party software implementations of AirPlay . The spec itself is fully patented ( though most of these patents relate to the hardware aspects of the system ) and is essentially a proprietary standard unique to Apple ( though several hardware vendors have announced hardware that will use the standard - XtremeMac , Denon ) . The current analysis of the protocol itself seems to indicate that it is a further evolution of the previous AirTunes protocol ( which itself was built on top of Bonjour ) , so you are likely to see software implementations appear after developers have had more time to experiment with the protocol .
My personal recommendation is <URL> for a small price and the ability to create archives . A free alternative is <URL> but this is limited to archive extraction only .
The iOS 7 agenda has n't been removed , but it 's not as intuitively easy to find . To see your agenda : In the month view , tap on any date to bring it to hourly view , then tap the icon ( bullets with lines next to the search icon ) this will allow you to toggle back and forth between hourly and agenda list view .
There are two approaches that could lead to less power consumption : a display that is enabled to have a dedicated greyscale mode ; less pixels to be in charge of software that automatically renders " less " if you tell it not to render any colors Whilst the first is definitely not applicable as the iPhone features an LCD screen , the latter is something I once inspected . I made an iPhone draw a couple of dozen lines per second and then print how many it could render in 30 seconds . Having the accessibility feature enabled I hoped for a higher score in my little " benchmark " . However , it resulted in no improvement at all . Actually the iPhone was slower having grayscale activated . It might be misleading but a lower benchmark , here , indicates more CPU cycles , hence more power consumption . So unless the iPhone actually caps CPU power on grayscale mode ( which I doubt ) your iPhone consumes even more power in grayscale more . This is probably due to the fact that it first renders the view in color , then caches it and puts the gray-filter on it . Side fact : on iOS9 you will have a " low power mode " available for your iPhone . I already use iOS9 on my main device on a daily basis and the power saving functionality is awesome ! My iPhone survived a 6-day music festival whilst taking pictures , checking mail in the mornings and sometimes calling people . So do n't worry about it too much , in a few weeks your iPhone will last surprisingly long .
Yes . The PKZIP format used by Windows is understood by OS X and has been this way since about 10.3 . The tool used to extract the contents is called <URL> and it is installe , by default , with every OS X installation . Your Mac-using friend can either double click on the archive in Finder to extract it . Or right click/cmd-click and select the ' Open ' option from the list of actions .
OS X Mavericks requires at least 8 GB of free space to install to . At least 15 % of free space is recommended for updates and other such things . Therefore , the minimum space for OS X is 9.2 GB , or to be safe , 10 GB . So yes , using Disk Utility to partition before you installed Boot Camp would have meant that you could have made the OS X partition smaller . You can repartition now with software such as <URL> , which specifically works with Boot Camp partitions .
Nah . Electricity is PULLED to devices that use it , not PUSHED from the plug . The phone is smart enough to stop pulling when its battery is full . EDIT : However , an adapter can provide incorrect voltage for a device . Do n't take what I said there and wire your iphone power adapter to a 220 source , for instance . You can OVERDRIVE a device with too many volts , but you ca n't send it " too much " of the right voltage , because the amperage is a function of the device 's draw . I know I just said that assuming that you understand the difference between volts and amps , but there it is ; they 're different .
I would n't purchase this machine unless it 's still covered by AppleCare . Inspect it closely for nicks and dents , indicating a drop . I would check the Console logs for any indication of ongoing OS level problems . Unfortunately testing hardware can take a while , but is worthwhile before buying . Run AHT ( see <URL> ) and do the quick test . To do it you 'll probably need the original disks that came with the machine . The only other thing I can think of would be to verify that modules such as bluetooth , WiFi , Ethernet etc , are showing up properly ( and information is being populated in ) system profiler . To get there , hold option while going to the apple menu - it 's the first option . Listen for loud fans , can indicate overheating or bad sensors . Aside from that ... it 's always risky . Check Apple 's stock of refurb units . They come to you refurbished by Apple , with a 1-year warranty , and often do n't cost that much more than a CL unit , but with much less risk .
No . You need to be a registered developer agreeing to the license agreements AND your device needs to be registered as a development device . As always , there are ways around this , but that is illegal . Torrent sites sometimes offer the software and in the comments developers offer to register your device as a development device . But these developers are at risk to lose their own development access . Furthermore the first betas tend to be buggy . Unless you have an obsessive need for the latest stuff or are a developer you do n't actually want it on your phone .
HTML is a simple markup language and does n't , arguably , require an IDE like Xcode . I 'd recommend anyone starting to learn HTML ( and related web tools like CSS and JavaScript ) to start with a simple text editor . Learn your skills manually before relying on an app to speed up the process . Most of the time you 'll find you can do a lot faster with a really good text editor than an all-in-one IDE . For something free on Mac try <URL> . To be honest there are n't that many amazing and free editors/IDEs for websites on Mac OS . For some money there are a lot of amazing tools such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> to name a few . If you just need it for a short time it 's not likely worth it however all of them currently provide some form of trial period . Edit : Changed scripting language to markup language . Not sure what I was thinking .
There are several bluetooth solutions , that should be useful : <URL> ( $ 29 ) - This should do the trick . Works and has interesting features . I recommend it . <URL> - No longer developed and supported . I see almost everything vanished , but I think you should be able to locate a working copy somehow . Edit : As of OS X 10.10 Yosemite and iOS8 this will be included in the OS itself . It 's called <URL> . ps . I 'm not in any way connected to the authors of the software , mentioned in my answer .
Try to change it by going to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > your account , and click on Change Password ...
The iPad is a high power draw device , and Belkin N150 USB Wireless adapter probably is no power slouch either , so it is technically possible for them to be overdrawing an internal USB Bus or Hub in the Mac Pro . The Mac Pro has 5 independent USB Buses as noted in the picture below . Now depending where things are plugged in they show up in different USB Buses , you may want to Open your System Information Application , and try to avoid placing the iPad and the Belkin N150 on the same bus . For Example , on my computer the ZyXel ... and the DataTraveler are plugged into front USB ports and they appear to be sharing the same usb tree . While my external Hub labeled " Generic USB Hub " and my VF0680 , CIRCA102 are all plugged in rear usb ports on the Mac Pro , note how the CRCA102 is on its own Bus .
Apple 's website has a page dedicated to <URL> for systems earlier than 8.1 . ( They also still have <URL> , but the Downloads link on this page just links to the current OS X downloads page . )
end question
start question
How often does Apple.com update their refurbished stock ?
Apparently there 's no schedule , it is all based upon product availability.As soon as the product has passed all the Refurbishing steps , it 's posted . What 's certain is that products do n't last long , so keen buyers are suggested to check every day , or even every hour .
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
This could get very technical but the answer is actually relatively straightforward . The act of " ripping " takes place in 2 stages , reading the source material , and writing out a converted version of same . For music this is straightforward , mainly because the technology is old enough to predate stuff that was later incorporated into DVDs . Music CDs do not have any form of encryption . The data is laid bare for you to use as you see fit . This means anyone can read it without requiring the use of a licensed decoder which you can them laden with prohibitions on use . Once you can read it , you can convert it , so long as you have a suitable encoder , which Apple provides to allow encoding into the formats you list . For a movie , this is different . The source material is encrypted and copy protected in a way that Music CDs never were , and never will be . This means you need a licensed decoder just to be able to read them . The terms of the license will often dictate that you can only decode for playback , and not for conversion . Most often this is purely a legal distinction , and not a technical one . Obviously Apple have to abide by the terms of these licenses or they could not provide you with them , and as such they will not allow you to subsequently decode a film , then instead of watching it immediately encode ( rip ) it into a different format . They do provide an encoding mechanism for movies , but it will only work on unencrypted and decoded files . Of course , there is nothing to stop other programs that Apple do not supply from ignoring such paper restrictions ( or providing replacement decoders that are less inhibited in what they allow ) , and happily ripping away .
Some of the files used in restoring applications are located at . These files are updated while an application is running , and if it crashes they are used by the system to restore it ( if the application crashes during the restore process , OS X offers to discard the saved state when relaunching a second time ) . But some applications such as Chrome store more information elsewhere . Chrome stores your open tabs and other data in . There I see files such as and . ( For comparison , Safari uses . )
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
If your device is jailbroken , you can grab them from / System/Library/Audio / UISounds
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
This depends on several factors and is not generally tied to a fixed time schedule - active usage of the device , push notifications to apps , location based updates and iOS 7 's learning ability to optimize based on your usage patterns for apps . From <URL> ( bold italic emphasis mine ) : Certain tasks or services can continue to run in the background . To lessen the affect on battery life , normal app background refreshing is scheduled for efficient times , such as when your device is connected to Wi-Fi , plugged into a power source , or being actively used . You can adjust your apps ' background activity in Settings > General > Background App Refresh . When Background App Refresh is on , apps that take advantage of this feature can refresh themselves in the background . For example , an app can check if new content is available and download the updates , or retrieve the updated content in the background when it receives a push notification , so the new content is ready for viewing when you launch the app . Apps can also schedule background refreshing based on your location . iOS learns patterns based on your use of the device and tries to predict when an app should be updated in the background . It also learns when the device is typically inactive , such as during the night , to reduce update frequency when the device not used . To improve battery life , you could selectively turn off background refresh for certain apps from Settings > General > Background App Refresh .
As a workaround , you can download it directly from <URL> if you have a ( free or paid ) account . Update : At one time the included link above would take one directly to Downloads for Apple Developers after signing in , however as time goes by things change . So once logged into your Developer account add downloads to the address in the address bar so it shows as <URL> and then press enter . You should then be at the Downloads for Apple Developers section as shown in the cropped clip below . <URL>
If you have a verified phone number and have set up the ability to verify devices using SMS verification code , you can use this method . Otherwise , you will not be able to recover your keychain yourself . You may find help by contacting Apple : <URL>
I believe by default it checks every ten minutes . To adjust the interval , click on the mail icon , then hold down the Command and Option keys and click on Preferences . A box will pop up asking for a key and value . Use as the key and type the number of minutes in the value box . Then click Set and you 're done . You need to restart it for the change to take effect . NOTE : is case-sensitive You can also do the following in Terminal Replace the above with a number to represent minutes between checks
Pretty sure that there are hardware differences allowing support for 1080p , not present in prior gen Apple TVs . So if that is the case , then a software update ca n't add in that support . We will not know for sure until we can see the spec and a complete teardown of the new Apple TV . We might be in luck for a UI update , though . So according to ars techinca 's <URL> Apple TV First let 's start with the Apple TV . The device looks the same as the second-generation device and , in fact , the new interface that Apple touted during the event will also be coming to the second-generation version via software update . The only thing new about the third-gen Apple TV is 1080p capabilities plus a more direct link into iCloud for photo syncing . If all you want is the new and improved interface ( which I do like , as an Apple TV fan ) , you 'll be able to get it from Apple on your second-gen device without having to pay anything . And as for hardware changes that 's a yes to according to the same article as well . We asked whether the third-gen Apple TV had the same A5X processor as that in the new iPad ( as was previously rumored ) , but an Apple spokesperson told us that it has a " single-core version of the A5 " and it 's not the same as what 's in the iPad . The CPU is capable of handling 1080p HD video .
Delete the app from / Applications and then re-download it from your preferred Apple ID . Launchpad deletion is a bit cleaner , but does the same thing , preserving user files created by Xcode , but deleting the application itself . Unless you stored project files in / Applications , you wo n't affect project files or user settings since they get stored by default in / Users
UTIs are stored on the file system itself , so they are not copied with the file if you move it to another file system . <URL>
Go to <URL> and send feedback demanding that they update Server and OS X to support TLS 1.2 . It 's ridiculous that they do n't , especially considering that in iOS 9 and El Capitan they require that Apple developers release software that only talks to TLS 1.2 servers . Even if you could patch Server to work with TLS 1.2 , what happens when Apple updates Server again , and it still does n't support TLS 1.2 ? When you install that update , will it overwrite whatever you put into place ? In the mean time , the only real option you have , I guess , is to install OpenSSL 1.0.1 or later , download the Apache source code , and then build it linking against OpenSSL 1.0.1 , and then replace OS X 's Apache with the one you just built . That will almost certainly require disabling System Integrity Protection because you ca n't modify the core OS files like apache2 . You might be able to get away with just swapping out mod_ssl . so after you do your build . But it 's ridiculous that we 'd even have to resort to this ! Apple needs to fix this !!! ( see <URL> ) Download VirtualBox , and install CentOS or another security-enhanced Linux flavor , and just run your server out of that on the Mac . Because , evidently , Apple CBA to chew gum and walk at the same time . UPDATE : Here are the exact steps that I did to get ( 2 . ) above to work . This gets OS X Server 5 to work with TLS 1.2 and forward secrecy on 10.11.1 , making ATS perfectly happy ( especially if you 're a developer this is really cool ) . Install Homebrew and brew install openssl , brew install PCRE Download the latest source for Apache , apr , and apr-util Extract Apache source into / usr/local/src / httpd-2 .4.17 Extract apr and apr-util archives to / usr/local/src / httpd-2 .4.17 / srclib/apr and / usr/local/src / httpd-2 .4.17 / srclib/apr-util Replace the character " + " with the word " apache2 " in the files config.layout inside the apr and apr-util dirs In Terminal , execute the following commands : Copy mod_hfs_apple . so , mod_authnz_ldap . so , and mod_ldap . so from / usr/libexec into / usr/local/apache -2.4.17 / libexec/apache2 / Disable SIP : Restart into Recover mode ( command-R ) , open Terminal , and type . ( This allows you to be able to make changes inside the / usr/sbin and / usr directories , necessary to swap out the insecure default Apache with the new secure one you 'll be building . ) Restart back into normal mode , open Terminal , and type the following commands : Re-enable SIP : restart into Recover mode , open Terminal , and type . Restart back into normal mode and download the latest source for PHP , then extract it to / usr/local/src / php-5 .6.16 ( or whatever version ; 7.0 just came out , woot , but I do n't know if it would break OS X Server 's own uses of PHP ) Configure PHP with the following command ( modify as needed , but this worked for my LAMP stack with OS X Server 5 ) : In a text editor , edit the file : / Library/Server/Web / Config/Proxy/servermgr _ serviceproxy_customsites . plist Starting at line 65 , perform these changes ( lines to delete , new lines ) : SSLCipherSuite " ALL : ! aNULL : ! ADH : ! eNULL : ! LOW : ! EXP : RC4 + RSA : + HIGH : + MEDIUM " SSLCipherSuite " ECDH+AESGCM : DH+AESGCM : ECDH+AES 256 : DH+AES 256 : ECDH+AES 128 : DH+AES : ECDH +3 DES : DH +3 DES : RSA+AESGCM : RSA+AES : RSA +3 DES : ! aNULL : ! MD5 : ! DSS " SSLHonorCipherOrder On SSLProtocol - ALL + TLSv1 SSLProtocol - SSLv2 - SSLv3 SSLProxyProtocol - ALL + TLSv1 SSLProxyProtocol - SSLv2 - SSLv3 Next , make a similar change in apache_serviceproxy_customsites . conf , starting at line 13 ( lines to delete , new lines ) : SSLCipherSuite " ALL : ! aNULL : ! ADH : ! eNULL : ! LOW : ! EXP : RC4 + RSA : + HIGH : + MEDIUM " SSLHonorCipherOrder On SSLCipherSuite " ECDH+AESGCM : DH+AESGCM : ECDH+AES 256 : DH+AES 256 : ECDH+AES 128 : DH+AES : ECDH +3 DES : DH +3 DES : RSA+AESGCM : RSA+AES : RSA +3 DES : ! aNULL : ! MD5 : ! DSS " SSLProtocol - ALL + TLSv1 SSLProtocol ALL - SSLv2 - SSLv3 SSLProxyProtocol - ALL + TLSv1 SSLProxyProtocol ALL - SSLv2 - SSLv3 Next , make the exact same changes as in step 14. , in apache_serviceproxy . conf , starting at line 198 . Start OS X server and run the following command to verify that you have succeeded : / usr/bin/nscurl -- ats-diagnostics https : / / [ [ your custom site 's https url ] ] Note : the URL will obviously need to be formatted properly . I put an extra space in there before the colon because otherwise this post gets sent to moderation . In my case ALL of the tests came back with a " PASS . " I can provide you a git patch file to make the changes to your . conf files assuming you still have a virgin install and you 're on the same version as me .
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
There are no driver updates for components found within a MacBook Pro ( or any Mac for that matter ) found anywhere but through Apple 's own update system . And as you say , it 's not something you need to worry about . They retain tight control over their components and mainly make driver changes through OS updates rather than parse everything into individual packages . However , they may release small updates that attend to these kinds of glitches periodically or when a serious issue arises . So long as Software Update reports no new updates , you will be running the latest drivers available for your Mac . You wo n't find alternate drivers elsewhere . Additionally , what you describe is not normal and I would suggest you see a Genius at an Apple Store ( not a licensed vendor ) . They will investigate and you may just walk out with a new machine . Apple has legendary service ; make use of it .
OS X Mountain Lion makes it impossible to do that , because of Security Reasons . You ca n't store your Mac App Store password or iTunes Store password in the keychain . For everything else , there 's <URL> .
If you 're running a system prior to OS X 10.9 , you might consider updating it . Upgrading Apple 's iApps from the 2011 versions to the 2013 versions requires either Mavericks ( for version 10.0.5 ) or Yosemite ( v10 .0.6 ) . The boilerplate message from the App Store has misled a good number of people . If , on the other hand , you are using 10.9 or 10.10 , first check the " Purchases " page of the App Store ( Fourth icon across on the top of the toolbar ) to see if the iApps are available for download . These versions replace -- not upgrade -- pre-installed iApps with bundles which tie them to a combination of your Apple ID and your computer 's hardware ID . If such is n't the case , contact <URL> , and explain your situation . You are entitled to an upgrade .
The updated YouTube app requires Apple TV Software Update 7.0 which is only available for 3rd generation Apple TV . <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How do I schedule a print job in 10.9 ?
Print Job scheduling was removed in OS X 10.7 Lion . As a workaround , you can pause the printer , print what you want then continue the printer . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this on the following page : <URL>
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
One of the best apps I 've found is <URL> . It has a Spotlight importer as well as the app itself . * It 's free as well as being open source . Only issue I 've had with it is that sometimes long " m dashes " , like -- , will not be present , and instead the two words will be run together . ( Though , I 've looked at the source code myself , and it appears to actually be a problem with , the open source library that iChm relies on ) . * NOTE : the version of iChm in the link above ( 1.4.2 ) does not have a Spotlight importer , but I 've forked this project on GitHub and added a Spotlight importer in version 1.5 . You can download 1.5 at <URL> . The GitHub project is at <URL> ( it may be a day or so before I 've pushed all of the changes ) .
⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 3 will screenshot the entire screen and save it to your desktop . ( You should hear a camera sound when you do this . ) ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 will give you crosshairs to use to select an area for copying . Move the crosshairs to the location that you want to copy and click the upper left , dragging the crosshairs to the lower right of the area you want . When you release , you will hear the same camera sound , and the screenshot will save to your desktop . Also , ⌘ cmd + ⇧ shift + 4 , then Space , then clicking any window will save that window to a screenshot . To change the location of the saved screenshot , launch Terminal and use the following command : Make sure you change to be the location where you want your screenshots to go .
You should be able to sync it directly by using the usb . Is it giving you error messages ? What is it saying . Also , you may need to check your sync preferences on the phone settings its self . What version of iOS is installed or is it jail broken ?
Run this Terminal command ( as an administrator ) , replacing " usersaccountname " with the user 's actual account name : When it prompts you , enter your password ( it wo n't echo ) . That user should now be able to administer printers .
According to Apple , <URL> is simplified application . It only lets you choose the printer and the number of copies , but not print quality etc. . in other words it use the current Printer defaults . So what can you do ? Log in to the printer 's set up page IP address that you need to know it first , but it is something like ( 192.168 . xxx ) and change it there . However , this solution will affect all following documents until you change it again .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
Using the Botany sample , the text boxes seem to work as expected with the caveat that you have to intentionally click on one of the four corner handles of the text box to make the blue linking triangles appear . I took a <URL> showing the controls reacting to mouse events . From there , linking works as expected from the perspective of Pages .
Open Safari and go to Preferences , then click on the Advanced tab . There 's a checkbox at the bottom titled " Show Develop menu in menu bar " . Check that then close the Preferences window . You 'll notice that in your menu bar between Bookmarks and Window you have a menu called Develop . Near the bottom of that menu list is Disable Images -- click it . Now your browsing experience is image free !
Yes to all your questions . OS X ' Quartz PDFContext generator embeds fonts ( <URL> ) . I could n't find any document that expressly states this ( it 's implied in <URL> , for instance ) but I have been sending out PDF proofs with fonts not installed on the recipient 's computer long enough to know it does . As long as you use the OS X routines for PDF generation , i.e. go through either the " Save as PDF " dialog or an option upstream of that , like Pages ' " Export " dialog , your fonts will be embedded -- Microsoft 's Office suite is no exception . Anything that uses its own PDF generation routines ( like <URL> ) , however , might or might not embed fonts , depending on its settings . Finally , as already stated , " embedded " means " contained in the file " , which in turn means " viewable on other computers without the font installed " .
If you quit the application and re-start it , that seems to resolve any devices that connect and get missed when you plug them in after the application has launched and enumerated the connected USB devices . Even if you have iTunes and Xcode and other apps running , I 've not seen Image Capture fail to recognize connected devices if you restart the program and I have certainly seen it miss device connects on occasion when other apps are running and want to talk with an iOS device .
I found a <URL> . I tested a few of the solutions , including using a plastic collar stay , but the suggestion that worked was using two thin cardboard strips to release the grip . What worked for me : Find a thin , semi-glossy business card , or similar piece of cardboard and cut it into two strips about the width of the USB port . You can use an un-occupied port to make sure the strip is narrow enough to fit . Insert the strips on the two wide sides of the USB port , between the outside of the cable 's plug and the inside of the USB port . You may need to work the strips back and forth to get them in . I had to insert the strips to about 2/3 the depth of the port . If you have difficulty inserting the cardboard , you may need a thinner material . Grasp the sandwich of the cardboard strips and the USB plug . Pull . The plug should come out as easily as a normal plug would .
you should be able to swipe from left to right along the item to get a delete button . The same way you used to have to delete on the iPhone before they added in multi-item delete .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
OK . I found out myself ... Luckily Apple did not remove the Finder Merge functionality with Mavericks . But sometimes it is not offered to the user . But let me explain : Supose you have a folder named TARGET with a subfolder TARGET/SomeStuff . And you have a SomeStuff folder somewhere else . Now drag this second SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder ( without any modifier keys pressed ) then the Finder will presented you the following dialog ( Stop and Replace ) : So , no merge here . Now - if you instead press the Alt key while you drop the SomeStuff folder to the TARGET folder there are two possibilities : 1 . ) If the files in the two SomeStuff Folder have completely different ( not overlapping ) contents . In other words : no duplicate filenames . Then finder will give you these options ( Stop , Merge &amp; Replace All ) : So , here you can merge . And the result will be a TARGET/SomeStuff folder with the content of both SomeStuff folders . 2 . ) But here comes what is sometimes confusing ( and actually made me think merging is gone in Mavericks ) : if there exists at least one filename that is contained in both SomeStuff folders , then merging is not possible . Then the finder will offer you these options ( Do n't Replace , Stop , Replace ) : So , no merge possible , here too !
Hmmm probably not the way you want it . You do n't mention what are you trying to print ( Word ? Pages ? TextEdit ? ) , If you use Pages , for example , you could create a template that inserts a page break in the 1st page ( at the beginning ) , so your real 1st page would be the 2nd page . Then use that template as your " blank document " . I know , simple solution but works ;) UPDATE Since you need to usually add a blank page to a PDF , you can use preview for that . Position yourself in the first page and do an : Edit - > Insert Blank Page
Open Mission Control and just click on the Downloading Xcode icon . This will pause it . Clicking again will resume .
Select the List tab : Click on the disclosure arrow to expand the subscription ( if it 's not already expanded ) : Click on the download button at the top of the list : Click OK to start downloading all episodes :
Quick and easy solution is to utilize an alternate browser . I had a similar issue with a Keyboard Video Mouse switch that required Java in order to initiate a <URL> ( Java Web Start ) session . After installing various versions of Java ( 1.6 , 1.7 , etc. ) ( O.S. is Mountain Lion ) and trying to start a JNLP session in Safari ( Version 6.0.5 , [ 8536.30.1 ] ) would see the efforts subsequently fail . I installed Google Chrome ( Version 28.0.1500.71 ) and tried to initiate a JNLP session and it worked fine . Firefox may or may not work equally as well but I did not test beyond Google Chrome .
end question
start question
How to insert a section break in a Pages '09 Page Layout document ?
You ca n't ! You ca n't insert a section break in a layout document because layout documents do n't have sections ; each page it its own section . See <URL> In a page layout document , each page is one section . You can use the predefined sections as they are , or you can modify or remove them one page at a time .
<URL> [ iTunes link ] from <URL> . According to <URL> , it integrates with Google Docs and lets you use Google Docs OCR to convert scans into editable text files on your Google account .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
This is possible in Pages ' 09 , so it probably works in Pages '08 as well . Select a heading in your document Open the Inspector ( in menu bar click View - > Show Inspector ) Select the Text section Select the " More " tab Under " Borders &amp; Rules " , click the dropdown that says " none " and select the line you want to use Below the dropdown select the icon depicting the line above the content Open the Styles Drawer ( in menu bar click View - > Show Styles Drawer ) Since the text is still selected , the heading you 're using should already be highlighted Click the arrow beside the style Click " Redefine style from selection " Now everywhere that you used that heading will now have a horizontal line over it , and it will automatically appear whenever you insert new headings .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
It 's difficult to answer your question without more concrete examples of " all garbled . " But the answer is probably " no , there 's no one setting to make everything work out the way you want . " Since the two programs are very different , it 's challenging to get a one-to-one correspondence of document formats when you export out of Pages to . doc format . In general , my advice is that your exported . doc files will look closer to your Pages documents if you use Pages ' Word Processing mode , rather than its Page Layout mode . Mixing images with text , especially in a page layout fashion ( with text wrapped around images and the like ) , is especially problematic , since the . doc format is n't as well suited as Pages for that sort of thing . If you want your associates to see just what you are creating , you are probably better off to send them a PDF from Pages than to try to use . doc format . If they need to make changes/edits/comments to your work , I would suggest that you send them the initial text ( without inline images ) in RTF , then incorporate their changes into your Pages document by hand , then produce your final document in Pages and end up as PDF .
If you have a full keyboard you can use the pgup and pgdown keys on your keyboard , near the numpad . If you are not using a full keyboard , function , labeled fn on your keyboard , plus the up and down arrow keys will give you a page up and down .
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
Yes it is . At least in the iBooks app ( the one from Apple ) . I do n't know about the Kindle app , but I 'm pretty sure it 's possible as well . You can make a single touch in the right or left part of the screen to go to the next or previous page in your eBook .
You can move it by pages in the iTunes interface but ( so far as I know ) not on the iPad itself . Connect to your computer open iTunes select the iPad in the left column select the apps tab along the top At this point at the upper right is a view of the apps on the iPad . You can drag and drop apps to move them around . You can grab a page and drag it up and down the list to rearrange the pages .
Check in the menubar - > View - > Previous Document/Next Document . The shortcut for Previous Document seems to be altcmd [ and for Next Document altcmd ] on an US-keyboard . On my ( german ) keyboard I use altcmd5 and altcmd6 though .
Apparently you can ... Upload any image using the Add image ( not the attachment ) button in edit mode . Once uploaded . While still in edit mode . Click on the same line right " before " the image , not on the image itself ... in the white space . A new button will appear in the edit toolbar at the top it will say Link ( down arrow ) . Click that ... it works just like normal links , and you can link that photo anywhere . Click Save ... now when you click the image ... instead of getting another window with the preview ... you get redirected to the URL you provided .
You ca n't ! You ca n't insert a section break in a layout document because layout documents do n't have sections ; each page it its own section . See <URL> In a page layout document , each page is one section . You can use the predefined sections as they are , or you can modify or remove them one page at a time .
Open up a terminal window : ⌘ space and type Terminal . Hit enter when its highlighted . When you get to the terminal prompt , type the following command : You wo n't get a response at the command line , but once you restart Safari it will no longer open them in the browser . To take it a step further while you 're there , you can keep it from opening them once they are downloaded with this one : This last command achieves what the other answer suggests .
As the other answers suggest , you can simply drag and drop into your mail message . However , I found that this is not always the behavior that I want . Sometimes I want to see the file in the context of its own folder , or get additional files around it . Holding down the Command ⌘ key , while double-clicking on the Spotlight result , will open the containing folder of your image ( or any file ) in the Finder . I use this function all the time . As a bonus , just holding the Command ⌘ key will show you the path of the file underneath its Preview , as illustrated in the following screenshot .
You can disable Icon preview in the view settings . For example : right click the desktop and select " Show view option " and then uncheck the last box .
You can share a pages document from your iPhone . Instead of clicking " Edit " , then the share icon , try clicking the document itself , and opening it . Once you have opened the document on your iPhone , click the spanner icon in the top right . A list of options will appear . Click the one that says " Share and Print " . Now click " Email Document " . You will be given an opportunity to choose whether to email a Pages , PDF , or Word document . After selecting the appropriate option , an email window will appear , with the document as an attachment .
After flipping through " iWork : The Missing Manual " and digging a little deeper , I discovered that those watermark style background images were immobile because they were " Locked . " So I clicked " Unlock " in the Arrange menu , and then I could delete or manipulate those images .
This is currently not possible . You can have it at page 1 and page 2 using a normal footer as you 're probably aware , but not automatically move to the last page of a document . You can do it manually as you 're also probably aware by using the section inspector , but that 's still not automatic and would require you to delete it from page 1 and then add it back to page 2 . You can notify Apple that you would like this feature implemented using their Pages feedback page : <URL>
I use Adobe InDesign for this kind of thing ... more flexible than AcrobatPro . Allows total control over what you import into the pdf ( text , images , other pdfs , etc. ) and the ability to create clickable TOCs . If you are going to do a lot of this , or a lot of print , it is worth the investment .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between the battery of iPhone 5s vs iPhone 5 ?
There are slight improvements to the battery capacities of the 5S and 5C over the 5 . iPhone 5 - 1440mAh < - 5.45 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5c - 1508mAh < - 5.73 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5s - 1558mAh < - 5.92 Whr at 3.8 V <URL> In terms of battery life comparison for 5 vs. 5c vs. 5s , they ran some benchmarks in <URL> . In some tasks the 5c/5s are better than the 5 , in others the 5 is better . With the exception of their Wifi browsing test , the new phones are comparable to the 5 , with there being less than an hour difference in battery life . In the Wifi browsing test though , the new phones ran out of juice .57 hours sooner ( 5c ) and 1.3 hours sooner ( 5s ) .
is simply a <URL> version of the M3U format [ <URL> ] . ( files can have <URL> . )
Usually when Apple says " SSD " they refer to a removable/upgradeable solid-state ( flash ) storage device . The MBP with Retina Display ( and the MacBook Airs ) are also using solid-state storage , but they are non-removable . See also : <URL>
The rainbow spinning pinwheel is usually controlled by the OS . The blue pinwheel is shown by an app to indicate loading . The spinning wait cursor ( shown below ) is also standard , but it is displayed automatically by the window server when an app ca n't handle all of the events it receives . In general , if an app does not respond for about 2 to 4 seconds , the spinning wait cursor appears . If the app continues to be unresponsive , users often react by force-quitting it . Source : <URL> The blue pinwheel is sometimes called the JavaScript pinwheel as JavaScript in websites are one of the primary ways a user will see this cursor , for cross-platform reasons , as in OS X a ' waiting ' cursor is generally not recommended .
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
Battery Drop of 5 % in two hours is not bad A battery drop of 5 % within two hours is not bad at all . How much does it drop throughout an entire day ? How long can you use it for taking a few calls , browse a little ? If it only drops heavily , when not in airplane mode , please check your battery usage : Replacement Apple offers an about $ 80 ( + $ 7 shipping ) battery replacement-program for iPhones <URL> Alternatively , if you - or a friend of you - like to fix things yourself you could consider a iFixit iPhone 5s Battery replacement kit , which is about $ 30 ( without shipping ) <URL> iFixit provides very useful guides of how to fix electronic devices from Apple or other manufacturers . Check warranty You might want to also check your warranty status : <URL> If you have an AppleCare Protection Plan they might replace the battery for free !
There are three categories : Top Free , Top Paid , and Top Grossing . In the Top Free category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price of $ 0 make the list . In the Top Paid category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price greater than $ 0 make the list . The Top Grossing category lists the apps with the highest total revenue ( that is , price * quantity sold + revenue from in-app purchases ) . A $ 50 app is likely to have fewer downloads than at $ 0.99 app . The Top Paid list will likely include many inexpensive apps that get purchased often . The Top Grossing category is to indicate which apps have the highest total spent on them .
If you have three podcasts as follows : A - downloaded , synced and played B - downloaded , synced and not played C - newly downloaded , never synced , and not played When choosing " all unplayed " , podcasts B &amp; C will by synced . A will be removed from the iDevice When choosing " all new " , only C will be synced . A &amp; B will be removed from the iDevice
I had a battery replaced on the day after iPhone 6 launch and the process took 50 minutes door to door . ( Entering the store to leaving ) . We did have a reservation and chose to stay past the " 50 minutes " to let the iCloud restore finish and get key apps from the in store cache / fast internet . I would expect you might get in and out 10 minutes quicker on a less busy day and could wait twice that if several phones were ahead of you to have batteries replaced .
SBProfiles will let you set up profiles for lots of settings on your phone - including sound and vibration . Here 's a YouTube video : <URL> Intelliborn once had an app called MyProfiles ( <URL> ) but it has been discontinued and only works on iOS 4
The short answer is processing speed , screen resolution and memory . The newer ones are obviously faster , and the lastest generation ( 4g ) includes both front and back cameras for shooting video and video calling . For a full list of the differences check out this <URL> .
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
The 3G radio requires more power . If you live in a weak 3G signal area , it may also cycle a lot between EDGE and 3G ; setting up the 3G connection draws more power . Finally , you may be able to save power by setting the iPhone to Fetch New Data less often ( Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data ) .
Backup means copying your personal data from your phone to your computer . That includes application settings , text messages , voicemails , etc. . Sync means copying new apps , music , video , or books from iTunes to your phone , or from your phone to iTunes . You can think of it this way : backup saves a copy of stuff you 've created , and sync copies media you have downloaded via the iTunes Store . Backup copies everything , but Sync only copies what you choose through iTunes . By default , it copies everything , but you can fine tune it all you want . You might want to stop movies from syncing to your phone if you never use it to watch movies , for example . Unless you 've changed the settings , when you connect your iPhone to your computer , iTunes always performs a backup first , then a sync . When you connect a new iPhone to your computer , iTunes will offer to reconfigure it using the latest backup it has . So if you connect your old iPhone , let it backup/sync , then connect your new iPhone , it should transfer everything so that your new phone is just like your old one , but faster !
It means that although not officially supported , the 1533 model will work with Spanish carriers if you purchase a sim in Spain . I just got back from Spain where I bought a SIM and the phone worked .
Due to the differences between CDMA and GSM , the antenna notches have been moved around . There are also 4 now instead of 3 , and as a result of adding a notch on the left side of the phone , the mute switch is slightly lower on the Verizon iPhone 4 than the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 , which could cause cases made for the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 to not fit the Verizon iPhone 4 properly : Though this may change in a future version of iOS , right now the Verizon iPhone 4 has a " Personal Hotspot " feature to share the data connection with up to 5 devices . In contrast , the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 supports tethering through USB or Bluetooth only , and only to 1 device : Finally , because the Verizon iPhone 4 runs on Verizon 's CDMA , it does not support simultaneous data and voice , unlike the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 which does over 3G .
It 's not going to work because Sprint will not let you add her phone to their network . Sprint limits subscribers to phones specifically sold for the Sprint network . Verizon has a similar policy . You may , however , be able to get the phone to work with a different carrier . Many European companies typically sell unlocked phones , so if the phone was purchased in Europe , it may already be unlocked . In that case , the only issue would be to find a network that supports the phone in the United States . Considering that European countries often use GSM networks , you may be able to use AT&amp;T , T-Mobile , and possibly some other carriers . If you need to use the phone for only a short time in the United Staes , you may want to buying an <URL> sim card or a similar contractless service from another carrier . If you do , however , need to use the Sprint network then you should keep in mind that the two phones support different LTE bands so it 's likely that you both would lose access to LTE . It 's not certain because there is some overlap but it 's quite likely . <URL> Here 's the FAQ for Sprint unlocking : <URL>
To expand on <URL> . A backup is a complete snapshot off your device at that particular point in the time the backup is made . Not every synchronize causes a backup , and the backup does not contain actual copies of the Apps , Music , Books or Photos stored on your phone . It does however contain all the settings , contacts , calendars , saved games and anything else not handled by the synchronize . A synchronise copies all Apps , Music , Books and Photos to the phone , and works in conjunction with the backup . When you restore a backup , it will require you to synchronize to retrieve the actual Apps etc. . You can synchronize your phone irrelevant of the backup state , and if you do n't restore a back after a reset , you can continue synchronizing items the way you did before the reset , however all your application settings , saved games etc. will be lost and has to be reconfigured and restarted .
Console.log is usually written to by calls to Apple 's <URL> ( ) function call . ( I ca n't find any other way to write to it so might be the only way ) This writes to the log of the user that the app is running as system.log is written to by the unix call <URL> . syslog can be configured to write to different files and machines . system.log is a central file written to by all users . Thus only code written specifically for OSX will write to console.log and only by the current user . syslog is used by pure unix apps and if you want central logging . OSX since 10.4 actually writes the logs to a database using <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to update timestamps on multiple photos using new Photos app ?
Select the photos you want , then select the menu command " Image " - > " Adjust Date and Time ... " which pops up the window that you are looking for . It seems as though it also gives control over the time zone for images with location data .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
Keep US Extended and use it to type your å . It 's alt + k and then a.
Yes , its called " closed clamshell " mode . In short , you 'll need to attach your MBA to a mouse , a keyboard and power : <URL>
It is not possible to get suggestions from Google , but it is possible to do a Google ( or any other supported search engines ) search from Spotlight . Select your favorite search engine in the Safari preferences . Then in spotlight you type the term to be searched and then do the search with ⌘ + B . This works even if your default browser is not Safari , but will use Safari 's default search engine .
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
According to 9to5mac : Details of the file format were <URL> after speaking with an iPhone product manager , and are consistent with a brief description in <URL> . The docs do n't go into details , but it seems like it 's just a set of files : The data of a Live Photo is exported as a set of files in a PHAssetResource object . The set of files must be preserved as a unit when you upload them to a server . It 's a bit disappointing , because they does n't sound very interoperable or convenient .
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
Photos does not actually move the files or duplicate them when importing from an existing iPhoto or Aperture library . It simply creates <URL> to the files in their original location from the new Photos library . See how <URL> on Apple 's site . More on hard links from <URL> : A hard link is simply a reference to some data on disk . Think of a file as a combination of a name and a pointer to some data . Deleting a file really means deleting the name portion of that duo . When there are no more names pointing to a particular piece of data disk , then that disk space can be reused . " You can delete your Aperture library without any problems , however you will no longer be able to use Aperture ( unless you set up a new library ) . Any changes made in your existing Aperture library will not appear in Photos , and vice-versa . Basically the actual image exists somewhere on the disk , and there are two pointers to the image ( one from the old library and one from the new library ) . So long as at least one of those pointers exists , the data is kept . But when the last pointer is removed ( i.e. the old iPhoto library itself is removed , then the image is removed from the Photos library ) , the data is also removed .
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
Several things . Open <URL> and you can see / download the full resolution photo . Then for the same photo - choose File - > Export - > Export Unmodified Original and compare the metadata and size difference between what came from your App and from the " truth " directly from the cloud . ( Dragging or normal exports seem to be a different resolution than either the internal reduced version or the full , unmodified original in my experience . ) As to monitoring thing , that 's easy too . Open the terminal app and use this command to monitor all cloud file operations up to and down from the cloud . Like many terminal command line tools , you need to send the exit signal or close the window/app to get it to exit . Control and C is that command . Two follow on items , the Photos 1.1 is a bit better , so you might upgrade your OS and you can also pause the download if you wish in the iCloud preferences for Photos . It lets things stabilize so you can see what you have and not be testing as things change/download from the cloud .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I think your conclusion is correct . This information is not included in the MDM Protocol Reference and therefore is n't available through MDM . The only way I can think of would be to side-load ( using an Enterprise Distribution certificate/profile ) an app that uses private APIs to monitor such activity and report back . Not recommended and against the Developer Program T&amp;C s I believe ...
If you go to Settings > General > Usage , it will show under Storage how much memory is used by Photos &amp; Camera , and when you tap that , it will show you what portion is from your Photo Stream . Now , I had a shared photo stream with about 20 photos , and I actually deleted it , and when I checked I saw that Photo Stream storage did not go down . So I suspect if the same photo is in multiple photo streams , it does not use extra storage on your device . What it did imply , however , is that each photo in my Photo Stream is using about 1MB , and I know full sized photos from the iPhone are usually closer to 3MB . Apple says that photos downloaded to the Photo Stream on mobile devices are scaled down to use less space . So this all indicates that the Photo Stream includes a duplicate copy of each photo , but a single photo in multiple photo streams does not increase storage . What I personally recommend is importing photos and videos to iPhoto or Picasa and using that software to delete them from the iPhone every once in a while . This clears the camera roll only . That keeps storage down while still letting you view recent photos in your Photo Stream .
Currently , year view is the highest level you can view a map for . With iOS 10 , this is expanded to viewing all photos together on the map , but iOS 10 is not available yet at the time of writing .
Albums > Faces - the pending list should appear at the bottom of the page , if there are any new faces to tag . <URL> <URL>
The size is normally the size of the full Application . What I do is I open the application info screen and look at the file size . Remember , App Store updates are full versions of the file being downloaded , and the existing one replaced . There is unfortunately now why to do this quickly , you have to check each application individually from the update screen by tapping on it 's icon . As pointed out by @cksum , when finding the App on the iPhone , scroll to the bottom and it will show the size .
All the photos that are taken in a burst sequence share a " BurstUUID " in their EXIF data . This is how applications know they are related . For example I just took a burst of images , installed <URL> and ran against the directory with the burst images . This is the output . For another application on Windows ( or any other platform ) to recognise and show these images as a group it will need to be rewritten to recognise this new EXIF tag .
If the App store does n't know about updates it should not be able to notify you - so within System Preferences go into the " App Store " preference pane and deactivate the option to search for updates automatically .
end question
start question
What happens when I 've closed all of an application 's windows on OSX ?
There is no consensus on whether the app must quit when you close the last window or if the app continues to run , so the decision is left to each developer to decide on an app by app basis . What is true is that quitting an app does release the resources it took - even if some files and code are still stored in RAM or cache until those stores get flushed or used for caching other apps and files at a later time . Furthermore , there is no restriction prohibiting bad coding , hogging memory , using CPU when no real tasks should be executing , so that as well varies on a case by case basis . Both Windows and OS X have very good scheduling smarts , paging systems , thread control , etc. . . and the CPU are all the same in terms of shutting down cores and lowering/raising the frequency based on load to save power and give a " turbo boost " when only one core is executing a single thread . OS X is starting to let apps signal that they support sudden termination - so that the OS can handle automatic termination , sudden termination and automatic document saving ( plus versions ) for an app developer . So even if you have told the OS to run a program it can and will decide to " quit " the process so that it wo n't consume resources while you are doing other things with the computer . Lastly , with PowerNap on OS X hardware , the line between alseep and awake begins to blur with the system waking partially to perform periodic network tasks which make OS X a bit different than traditional UNIX and Windows in terms of thinking about apps and resource usage . More reading : <URL> - covers both apps that quit when its window closes and those that do not . Further down , the discussion of termination is fairly readable but also technically detailed <URL>
& #x 2325 ; + & #x 2318 ; + M actually minimizes all windows of a current application , not just the current focused window ( unless of course , the application you have running only has one non-minimized window . ) The easiest way to hide all active applications is to select the Finder/Desktop , and then " Hide Others . " The keyboard shortcut is & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2318 ; + H . You can also simply hold & #x 2325 ; and & #x 2318 ; and click on the Desktop , or Finder on the Dock , or of course , simply use Expose and hit F11 ( Or whatever you 've rebound Hide-all to . )
Use the latest package : Here is the installation version from the documentation ( the part of the file name is current-release specific and will change ) :
iOS at its core now has its own multitasking API built in . The only way for an app to even go into the background it has to use these API 's , so even poor programming experience still ca n't ruin things too much ( and , with the flip side of that , poor developer experience could make the app while its running use more resources than needed ) . All in all - this should n't be an issue . Those apps in the tray do n't mean they are running - it literally is also a recently used app tray . And again , the background tasks they can do are limited by the backgrounding API , so like audio , VOIP , navigation , uploads , etc. . As far as being faster , have longer battery life , etc - no . At least not on an average . You may feel that it runs different , and yes there may be a rouge app doing something odd , and forcing it closed may help . But in general , no - this should n't affect speed or battery life , unless those apps are currently doing background tasks such as location , audio , uploading files , etc. . Otherwise , their RAM state is saved for quicker relaunch , but no processing power is being used .
Apple introduced Bootcamp in 2006 as a beta for OSX Tiger . ( <URL> ) So it 's since 2006 that the Macbooks are able to install Windows . However a <URL> specify that the oldest Macbooks are n't compatible with Windows 7 . NB : Notice that laptops powered by PPC processors were called iBooks &amp; PowerBooks . Macbooks ( Pro ) are only powered by Intel processors .
This AppleScript should restore all hidden windows . The first action unhides any hidden programs . The second action restarts the Dock , which has the effect of un-minimizing any windows minimized to the Dock . If you particularly want an Automator workflow , give it one action : Run AppleScript , and assign this AppleScript .
Go to the Finder and type command + shift + a . That will get you to your applications ( hence the " a " ) . QuickTime and iMovie should both be there .
Apple only provides Mission Control ( ctrl ↑ ) and Application Windows ( formerly Exposé : ctrl ↓ ) for window management . Yes , this was ( and still is ) my least favorite change after switching to macOS . Under → System Preferences → Dock , you may also uncheck Minimize windows into application icon to avoid " losing " minimized windows , but this can quickly clutter your Dock .
When the user tries to install the update , the app store will alert the user saying something like " you must have iOS5 to install this update . " . The user will still be able to use the current version they they have , though .
Check out <URL> : cocoaDialog is an OS X application that allows the use of common GUI controls such as file selectors , text input , progress bars , yes/no confirmations and more with a command-line application . It requires no knowledge of Cocoa , and is ideal for use in shell and Perl scripts ( or Ruby , or Python , or ... etc ) . It 's a pretty simple concept -- pass arguments to the executable to create a dialog , and it returns a result string . There are some good <URL> as well as <URL> .
Windows According to <URL> : Windows 7 by default starts up at 800 x 600 on the Retina MBP , Windows 8 defaults to 1024 x 768 . This behavior is n't specific to this system , the GeForce GT 650M does n't have native driver support in either OS at this point and these are the defaults for the standard VGA driver in both cases . Windows 7 wo n't expose any resolutions higher than 1600 x 1200 without an actual NVIDIA driver , while Windows 8 will let you select the full 2880 x 1800 panel resolution . This is a report about Windows via bootcamp . I do n't know how this differs from Windows being used in a virtual machine . It would probably also depend on the options that the VM software offers . Linux When using the NVIDIA drivers on Linux ( and on Windows too ) you can select the full native panel resolution ( 2880x1800 ) . You can also select any of a number of scaled resolutions which do n't look as sharp . In general , running at native resolution is actually less of a problem for Linux than it is in Windows and OS X because of the way it 's designed . There are no blurry fonts on 3rd party apps like on OS X and it is easier to set your DPI so that apps are scaled properly than on Windows ( it is set automatically in Linux ) .
This kind of data is frequently stored in . User-specific settings are frequently stored in Your Chrome profile is located at . I recommend going on a little exploration of the ~ / Library folder ; there 's a lot of useful stuff in there .
You can upgrade to Mountain Lion from both Lion and Snow Leopard ( SL ) . With SL you will need to be running the latest version 10.6.8 and then you can just buy it through the app store . check this link for more details : <URL> You just need to make sure your machine can handle Mountain Lion which you can see with this app from the app store <URL> OS ' are like normal apps - they can be installed on up to 5 machines . Good Luck on the upgrade :-)
The KeePass documentation in <URL> , although not specifically mentioning OS X , describes your issue : Clipboard : On some systems , Mono 's clipboard routines do n't work properly . In this case , install the xsel package . If is installed , KeePass ≥ 2.20 uses this utility for clipboard operations . So should help . ( is available from MacPorts ( <URL> ) . The source is available here : <URL> ) EDIT : But it does n't . I was curious so I compiled on my Mac . It did n't solve the issue with copy/paste ( tested with Portable KeePass 2.20.1 ) , as I feared , I must say . Why ? Because as stated here <URL> is a tool that manipulates the clipboard contents of X11 applications . X11 provides the graphical user interface for Linux and UNIX , but OS X uses Quartz instead , and so does Mono , as I realized ( see <URL> ) . There 's a workaround for copying username and password to clipboard , as explained in this thread <URL> : Ureka ( sic ) . Your 2.19 is on the path to copy paste working on the MAC via Mono ! Your button to copy the username , and your button to copy the password works now !!! The poster above refers to these buttons ( portable KeePass 2.20.1 shown running on Windows ( sorry , no Mac nearby ) ) : For copying the username : For copying the password : EDIT : I 'd like to share how I compiled in case somebody needs it on OS X : Install X11 from <URL> ( this only applies to OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " users ) . Symlink header and library files from to and from to ( alternatively you can symlink to and ) : Otherwise you will get lots of errors about files not found or missing symbols . I tried passing the non-standard X11 directories as an option to without success . Download from <URL> and extract , for example , to your Desktop . You need plus libraries . Install Xcode and then install the command line tools from Xcode > Preferences > Downloads > Components . Change directory , configure and compile : You can also install with MacPorts using the command . In my setup it also required the symlinks for the X11 libraries and header files and needed much longer to compile . I 'd also like to share some caveats when using KeePass on a Mac : KeePass 2.18 ( from <URL> ) has trouble with case-sensitive HFS + . is typed ( notice lowercase ' p ' ) in ( so that it silently fails ) . I had to use a USB flash drive formatted with case-insensitive HFS + and run KeePass from there . I had a lot of trouble getting KeePass 2.20.1 to work on OS X 10.8 " Mountain Lion " . It could n't get rid of the error message : I finally found the culprit : The release notes for version 2.20.1 state ( <URL> ) : Changes from 2.20 to 2.20.1 : On Unix-like systems , KeePass now stores most of its temporary files in a private temporary directory ( preferably in ) . According to <URL> : defines the base directory relative to which user-specific non-essential runtime files and other file objects ( such as sockets , named pipes , ... ) should be stored . The directory MUST be owned by the user ... was not set . I set it to a directory I owned and KeePass worked like a charm :
The user buys an app for the price it is sold at that point . Future changes to the price have no effect on them . It is on their Apple ID that they own the app and they will be able to download the app for free as long as it 's available ( no matter the price ) .
Not using the All My Files option , but yes you can , using your own search criteria . Open your volume in Finder Search for Any Document : Set the search location to the name of the drive : Alternatively , for all files ( not just Documents like All My Files ) you can set the search criteria by size : You can change the view to make it match the appearance of All My Files :
You will no longer be able to download like you currently do , and in effect , iTunes will act like Match was never on . You will be able to keep any songs you downloaded , though . So if you upgraded files you uploaded that matched to iTunes-Plus-type files , then you keep those once it cancels .
I have n't found a detailed list of the exact behaviors . For the most part , it seems that everything is simply pixel-scaled ( which is why text looks bad ) , except for images which were scaled down to begin with . I presume that the class has some behavior to handle this automatically . On Retina devices , Apple 's built-in text and image rendering are aware of the scaling factor of the screen , and will render text and photos in high quality . But this does n't seem to apply to iPhone apps run on an iPad . ( See Apple 's <URL> for more information on that . )
I have no experience with this , but I found a <URL> .
Little Snitch is like a Ferrari if you can afford it . There is a now discontinued little app that does the same for 10.6 and before Yosemite . <URL> : Allows you to select who is to be blocked and who not .
end question
start question
Screen sharing - can you prevent the attached screen from turning on ?
in Lion this is possible , but do n't remember seeing this anywhere in previous versions . When you start a screen sharing session it will ask you how you want to view the remote session .
This can be accomplished using a feature of the unix based login system that assigns a program to run on successfully login . Normally users in OSX have their shell defined as . The OS login window will actually make sure people have a usable shell before showing them on the login screen . You can disable a user -- revoking both their ability to login and their appearance in the login window user list -- by changing the shell to . The settings is found in System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > ( Unlock the settings if necessary ) - > Right click on a user - > Advanced options - > Login Shell . Re-enabling the user is as simple as setting this back to . Addendum : In later versions of OS-X , restoring users deactivated like this gets slightly more complicated . Starting in 10.7 , the users do n't show up in the admin panel by default either . You can restore them manually by using the setting their shell using the standard Unix command in a terminal : Starting in 10.9 , the utility is also not available , but you can set the shell using the an OSX special utility in the terminal :
The dark linen source file is stored in the System Library folder so you will need " root " or administrator permissions to make changes to the directory or the file .
You can edit the . plist file at either using a text editor , Plist Editor ( requires the OS X Developer Tools ) or the command in Terminal to remove the screensaver at login window . Like this :
You can SSH into another Mac and use in the shell . Enable remote login in the sharing preferences on the other computer
I used it today . Lion to Snow Leopard and Lion to Lion . Worked fine . I did n't even think about it not working until I read this ... :-)
KeyLemon looks like what you want : <URL> It has a free version , but I do n't believe it will replace the login screen .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
Currently , no . Through the Macs history ( as you pointed out with the HIG ) , Macs have had a ' zoom ' feature versus a maximize one like Windows . Many times this will make the window full screen , but not always . With Mac OS 10.7 due out this summer , having a <URL> is one of the new features , where the application will take up everything on the screen . Since 10.7 is still under NDA , not sure if there will be a way to have the application always launch full screen or not .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
This is normal for LCDs that have the backlight off ( which is what brightness at zero does ) , but which are still turned on . As far as I know , it 's a side-effect of how LCDs work . The LCD screen itself turns the pixels on or off , but a CCFL or LED backlight behind the screen shines through to illuminate them . So while the backlight is off , the pixels are still active , just very hard to distinguish them . I find on my old 2006 MBP , the Apple light from the lid leaks enough light that I can read a bit of text in the centre of my screen , even at zero brightness .
You should be able to rotate images imported from a camera in iOS ' Photos , so the functionality is there . For some reason it 's not enabled for synced images or screenshots . Instead of using a computer you can rotate images with an app providing the functionality . I think Myles also means this approach . Some free apps capable of image rotation : <URL> <URL>
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
Eventually I found the basic solution : For Java applications in general you can specify that they are ' headless ' , by adding the option to your java application . ( also posted to stackoverflow ) .
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
New apps are never installed to the first screen . Instead , they are put in the first open space available from the second screen onward . If there is no open space for the app , then a new screen is created . This does seem like something that could easily be turned into a preference ; and , there may be a jailbreak setting already . But there is currently no way to override this behavior that is supported by Apple .
I have n't got my iPod Touch with me but this works on the iPhone if you go to Settings - > General - > Auto-Lock and set it to Never . That should work . Let me know if iPod Touch has removed this . Do n't know why they would have !
It is none of them , however it is compatible with VNC .
There is not a way to do this yet in FaceTime . Here 's the <URL> to a forum where they discuss how " neat " it would be to have this feature . The discussion is a month old , so fairly recent . As for Screen sharing , if you 're on the same network ( either routed , through a VPN , SSH tunnel , or direct connection ) then you just select the device in Finder , and choose screen sharing ( button in the upper right hand corner ) in the window that opens : The computer that is sharing its screen must have Screen sharing turned on ( check marked ) in System Settings > Sharing : Note mine is NOT check marked , so this computer would NOT share its screen using screen sharing . If you want to Screen share and you are NOT in the same Network , use Messages : Note Screen Sharing ( under the video drop down ) is enabled ( has a check mark next to it ) .
Since at the login window ( and the lock screen ) your user is not logged in , you ´ ll have to edit the global preferences : and : and then do a reboot . This fixed it for me ( and I hope , Apple fixes that sooner or later ) . :-)
end question
start question
Easy way to get * all * Notes to synchronize via iCloud ?
You need a 10.6 / 10.7 system handy as this does n't work in 10.8 . The method I 've previously used is as follows : Plug your iPhone into your Mac and go into iTunes - > Your Device - > Info tab and choose to Sync notes . This should grab the notes out of the section and dump them into Mail.app . Your notes should appear under the Notes section in Mail.app , but ideally filed under an header . Simply select all the notes from under and drag them into the section . That should upload them all to iCloud and save you some time copying and pasting or fiddling with other software !
I ended up being patient and did not make any purchases until recently when Age of Mythology : Extended Edition was released on <URL> . It includes the Titans expansion and is likely to have more content added like what was done for Age of Empires II on Steam . I do have to boot into Windows to play but it runs really well ( graphics look awesome ) through Steam .
Put all your Phish in a playlist , and give it a name like ' tunesofish ' . Then simply say " shuffle playlist tunesofish " . Siri will open the playlist and play it shuffled . Here , I 've asked Siri to play my Comedy playlist : <URL> This works with a smart playlist set to auto-add everything from artist " Phish " : <URL>
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
I have found a suitable work around that I have been testing for a couple of days . While using iCal on a Mac running Snow Leopard , I needed to add an account to iCal . This account would point to iCloud and sync with it . So , open Preferences and select accounts , enter the add account window by hitting + . this takes you to : You need to choose CalDav and enter your Apple ID email address ( not your . me.com email address ) enter in your password and the server name which in most cases is Once this has been added you will need to uncheck some of the calendars in the ' on my mac ' menu .
On your iPhone , you can <URL> , and enable Contacts synchronization . Assuming you 're on Mac OS X , you can also set up Google Synchronization with Address Book app and Contact synchronization with iTunes . I 've had issue with the former concerning the addresses , the city , postal code , etc. fields were n't correctly mapped . YMMV . On the plus side , the modification made to either Gmail or the iPhone are immediately applied to the other . The second works fine for me , the downside is that you have to connect your iPhone to your computer when you want to share the modifications you made to the contacts .
Go to Settings Reset Reset All Settings and the process will start over . You 're not losing content this way , because that 's the 2nd option on that page .
Nevermind , I managed to get it working following the advise of another <URL> on the Apple forums ; namely : Same thing happend to me on my 3gs , i went to Settings ... iCloud ... Delete Account then signed in again to add it . The iCloud inbox was displayed afterwards . This also fixed the problem of notes , which now show up properly on the notes application .
Now OS X ( Mavericks ) supports Thunderbolt networking just like any other networking interfaces . Then , you can share internet just like any other interfaces . Anyway Thunderbolt interface is pretty picky , then sometimes you will not able to make connection . I do n't know why , but if established , it provides at least 100MiB/s bandwidth ! I expect this is limited by HDD in my iMac , and if I have both SSD , it will be even more faster .
As long as you log in on both iOS devices with your same login from Apple ( or backup and install them with the same login on your Mac/PC with iTunes ) , you will be able to use the same apps and other data without the need to purchase them again . You can still manage your apps separately for each device : For instance , iTunes will keep them apart ( you get to name each device yourself ) , and you can install different sets of apps and photos , music and all on the devices . But anything that comes from the App Store is linked to your Apple ID login - and once you 've purchase something with your ID , you can install it on all your devices .
You can try using <URL> ( ) feature on the iPhone . It allows scheduling as well .
If you want an exact copy of the TC drive , the fastest way is to connect the USB drive directly to the TC and use the archiving option in : Other things to consider : Transfering data over wire ( ethernet ) is faster than over Wi-Fi Connecting the USB drive directly to the computer ( than to the TC ) gives better results if you use the Finder to copy data .
This is n't a pretty way to do it , but it does get you the info you desire : The command is slow , mostly because of how much data spews out . But as a summary : lists loads of info about the system is a " pipe " and puts the output of 1 to another command ( 3 ) searches for patterns/words , in our case " Interfaces " The switch prints out the 15 lines following the match . Example output : You can limit to a lower number ( say 3 ) to just get the card id and the Firmware version ( i.e. That 'll be the chipset ) . If that is too much info , you can always get some info on your interfaces with or , but neither includes info about the chipset/manu unless you want to parse it out of the MAC address ( first 6 chars , I think ) . Otherwise , you could look into installing , but that is probably in the scope of another question .
Double-hitting the key ( at the key place ) will bring the multitasking bar much like the button on your iPad . Confirmed on my iPad Apple keyboard dock .
Safari uses Webkit as it 's rendering engine . If you 're specifically looking for when it began to support HTML5/CSS3 , it as a fully open-source repository where you can review changes commit by commit . As such , you can see the full comprehensive , intricately detailed history here : <URL>
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
Yes , there is , using Karabiner 's command-line tool . Paste this into your : Obviously , you will need to change the name of the profile ( here it is NewItem ) . If you want to toggle between them with a single hotkey , paste it twice and change the name , then check the box for the profile you want to switch to on each one .
Do this : All devices need the New Notes upgrade to be compatible with this . Update to New Notes on each device . Open folders view and select Local Notes or On My Phone . Tap on Edit in the upper right corner and tap on Move All in the lower left corner . You should see this : iCloud New Folder ' Notes 0 > ' [ or not including the local notes ] Tap on Notes They will empty out of the local notes folder and move into iCloud . Again , you wo n't see any of these notes until you upgrade to New Notes . Pro-Tip : This also works for migrating Gmail notes , etc. .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
end question
start question
Why does text appear blurry when zooming in Safari until you release your fingers from the trackpad ?
Probably to give a smoother and better user experience while browsing the web . If it did it in real time all systems would n't be able to handle it that well .
Do you have by any chance a custom icon you set up for that folder ? I believe this is what this file is there for . This <URL> has the answer .
According to arp ( 4 ) on an OS X Lion system : You can manually manage the ARP table using the command .
To remove an item , just swipe your finger to left over that particular entry . A red " delete " button will pop up .
As you discovered , <URL> , which are images , not text . QuickTime and the iOS Video app only handle SRT/3GPP format text subtitles . Using the very handy ( and free ) <URL> , VobSubs can be converted to SRT subtitles and packaged in an MP4/M4V . It does this using OCR , but I 've found the results to be quite accurate , since the source material is pretty clean . If you need support for non-english subtitles , you need to go <URL> and download the proper Tesseract language file , unzip it ( so you have a file ) , and place it in the folder in the Subler.app bundle . Converting from VobSub to SRT with Subler Open Subler , and create a new file . Import your existing MP4/M4V ( or MKV ) file ( File → Import → File ... ) . The import settings should be automatically set up properly , but make sure that the subtitle track 's action is set to 3GPP Text , not Passthru . Other tracks should be set to Passthru , unless you have audio in a format the MP4 container does n't support ( but this should have been taken care of by Handbrake ) . Click Add . Optional : Click on the subtitle track and change the Forced setting to All Samples Are Forced , if you need forced subtitles ( i.e. always on , for foreign languages ) . Optional : Add any metadata you might want . Subler has a nice auto-search option ( File → Import → Search Metadata Online ... ) . Save the file . This should be relatively quick , since it 's not transcoding any of the video or audio .
Thankfully , you can still disable the trackpad in OS X Lion . Open System Preferences , click on Universal Access , select Mouse &amp; Trackpad and click on Trackpad Options ... at the bottom . Tick the checkbox " Ignore built-in trackpad when mouse or wireless trackpad is present " .
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
With new keyboards , one option to accomplish this turned out the be <URL> It 's a keyboard app that lets you type into the main app , and then find any one of a number of messages to paste later . Nice ! I think there are other keyboards out there providing similar functionality , but this was the first free option I found .
AFIK the Do Not Disturb does not have setting to let Text Messages through like phone calls . You can join the large group asking Apple to do it <URL>
This is a feature introduced with the <URL> . Accessibility improvements : Option to light LED flash on incoming calls and alerts for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 Custom vibration patterns for incoming calls on iPhone New interface for using iOS with mobility-impairment input devices Option to speak a selection of text Custom element labeling for VoiceOver You can change the setting in Settings - > General - > Accessibility options :
Unfortunately the sensitivity of the tap-to-click feature on the trackpad may not be adjusted through the default system software at present . It may only be turned off altogether . However if you download <URL> it will allow you to adjust tap sensitivity , among other things .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
Here is what I would do to troubleshoot it ( with the help of an external mouse ) : Go to System Preferences , then select Trackpad , and make some change on that screen . Try your trackpad again . If that does n't work , reboot . If that does n't work , and if you 're using BootCamp ( or VMware Fusion , or Parallels ) , try booting into the other operating system that you have installed on your Mac and see if your trackpad is recognized there . If that does n't work , try cleaning off your trackpad . Give it a good vacuuming , get any dust out from around the edges . If that does n't work , then ( if you 're comfortable ) it 's time to dig into the innards of your Macbook . One option is that your battery could be impacting this . If your battery life on your Macbook has also gone down , the battery itself could be physically bulging out , and it could move your trackpad enough out of alignment that it wo n't work any longer . If that 's the case , then you need a new battery . If your battery is fine , then it could be that you need a new trackpad . I bought a replacement trackpad from eBay for my old Macbook , and that got me an extra year 's worth of life out of that Macbook . It was a bit fiddly to replace , but it worked .
Although it 's not exactly what you might be looking for , if under Settings / Sounds / Sounds you set Text Tone to None , no sound will me made , neither when receiving nor when sending a Message .
You can double-tap to zoom in to a section . I find this feature very useful . As you use it you 'll soon learn where to double-tap to get the zoomed-in view you want . Safari does not have support for changing just the font size without zooming the page , but Opera Mini does have that feature . You can go to settings and choose from small , medium or large font sizes . But note that this only works on some websites , not all . This is because changing font size can very likely break the website design/layout . Website creators like to control the user experience so they explicitly set the font size so the browsers ca n't change it .
Yes , at 30 days , 10 days and 1 day prior to expiration date , you will receive the following email : <URL>
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
Yes - tapping the sign out button disconnects FaceTime . The messages app uses a different account unless you set them all up using iCloud preference or a setup assistant screen to log into all icloud services with one Apple ID . As long as you signed out of the FaceTime portion of the settings app - more deliveries wo n't happen to that device . as long as you did n't sign in to the iCloud settings or anywhere else - you should be safe with no data of yours on that device other than for the moments you allowed it .
If you want to exit the history scrolling mode and switch to the command output scrolling mode go to the menu . If you want to exit the command output scrolling mode and switch to the history output scrolling mode go to the menu . When you are in history scrolling mode holding allows you to scroll the command output . The reverse is not true . This whole behavior can be disabled in by unchecking Under the checkbox , it 's indicated : When the alternate screen is displayed , send input instead of scrolling the terminal view . Press Shift to temporarily reverse this setting . I still do n't know how the history scrolling mode is sometimes accidentally activated .
As far as I can tell its just means as long as it 's connected via bluetooth and in range . There is n't a Touch ID scanner on the watch or anything like that so I do n't think that it forms an knid of " signature " to you .
end question
start question
Is it possible to write to the Boot Camp disk in OS X ?
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
One option is to boot from your Mac OS X Install CD and edit the partitions using the Disk Utility ( found in the menu ) . This can be very handy for removing partitions that just wo n't die .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
If you simply want no filtering &amp; wish to sort mail manually you can just disable Junk filtering altogether from Mail Prefs ... Note : That does n't actually appear to delete the Junk folder - but it does stop it being populated at all .
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
Try this variation on what its stated there : Run bootcamp to allocate the space 2 - Install W7 Go back to OSX ( Install REFIT or similar as bootmanager ( optional ) ) Restore your DMG image over the W7 partition With this you dont need the fdisk commands as bootcamp should mark the partition as active ( bootable ) . This SHOULD work . The problem with the linked page process is that w7 ( just as osx ) is actually in 2 partitions , a small boot one and a large with the OS , your DMG only contains the OS partition .
The bootcamp FAQ is helpful for these sorts of questions <URL> <URL>
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
This is because of how Retina is implemented on these new systems . In the Mac OS ( and iOS for that matter ) , resources are doubled in size , therefore each point is roughly the 4 pixels . To the system though , it still reports the 1440x900 size , even though the actual pixel count is 2880x1800 . The Mac OS knows how to handle this looking for @ 2X resources or using native code to render things at a higher resolution offscreen before painting to the screen . While on Windows though , it is outright seeing the 1440x900 . Since Windows does n't really have a built in way to handle the ' Retina ' feature that the Mac does , things would be grainy . You would see the same problem on a Mac App that does n't use native text or image rendering , that has n't been updated yet . So the only way to make it look crisp on your Windows install would be to run at 2880x1800 - which would be hard to see , or a higher resolution than 1440x900 that you felt comfortable with depending on stretching/artifacts/etc . That is until Windows does have some possible feature like this and implemented in a similar way . When connected to your external display though , Windows is seeing the 1280x720 px , and rendering that correctly , but at whatever your native resolution is . Also , the pixel density on the larger display may be different . It comes down to the easiest way to understand - the pixel doubling/retina features are an OS feature , not a hardware feature .
If Windows 8 has been released in your country , you should be able to find a reseller with the System Builder version available as a DVD . Local system builders is a pretty big business in most countries so just look around for someone offering custom built Windows systems . A quick Google search on " create a DVD ISO on OS X " shows lots of how-to articles for that step . You can either use an external DVD reader ( maybe $ 30 ) or get somebody with a DVD to create the ISO for you .
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Bootcamp allows you to install and run Windows 7 natively on your Mac as if it were just any other PC . It allows you to co host a Windows installation on the same drive as your Mac OS one , allowing you to dual boot . In addition to being what is effectively a simple boot manager , it includes a full package of drivers for all your integrated peripherals like the trackpad , FaceTime camera , odd Mac keyboard layout etc etc , that makes it easier to use without having to struggle getting things to work . It does not allow you to virtualise Windows to run within Mac OS , but a handy side affect is that many virtualisation tools such as VMWare Fusion and Parallels desktop will open your bootcamp partition as if it were a virtual machine , allowing you access without a reboot at the cost of performance . Booting directly into windows via bootcamp should be just as fast as on any comparable spec PC
More reading on <URL> indicates that the warranties are not honored internationally for iPads and iPhones . If you buy somewhere and it breaks , you will likely have to send it back to the country of purchase . Apparently , this is because most countries have their own warranty laws .
It appears you can start Fusion headless by executing the following : / Applications/VMware \ Fusion.app / Contents/Library/vmrun - T fusion start ~ / Documents/Virtual \ Machines.localized / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmwarevm / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmx nogui You could also add to your $ PATH or create an alias to have easier access to the command . You can find more info on the command in <URL> . While a bit out-dated , it should still contain relevant information on how to start and stop your server . If you are interested in running headless Linux servers for your development environment etc , I can also highly recommend to use VirtualBox instead . It is free , has extensive command-line support , and while running headless VMs Fusion loses most if its advantages ( seamless GUI integration ) over VirtualBox anyway . What 's more , tools like <URL> can even facilitate running these environments to a much greater extent . With the addition of a paid add-on ( " provider " ) , Vagrant can control VMWare as well as VirtualBox for you <URL> .
This is a tough one to answer . I have seen discussions on <URL> about just this subject . And if you keep up with news online about such tings you will find that opinions vary from " Chicken Little " to , " nah , do n't worry about it on a Mac . " The truth likely lives somewhere between the two . Generally viruses of all types have a bit of a harder time on the Mac . I run without an installed virus scanner on all my Macs . But I have been working , professionally , supporting Macs since System 6 . So , with care , recent backups and an alert mind ( yeah right ... ) you are fairly safe without a virus scanner . That said I always recommend that you have a virus scanner installed and kept updated . Ransomware usually ( like many other forms of malware on the Mac ) requires that you enter a username and password to give the malware installer rights to do it 's dirty work . However there are vulnerabilities on Mac O/S that supposedly do n't require administrative authentication to root your computer . There is also malware that tries to masquerade as ransomware . A co-worker recently opened a link to a video that then infected Safari on his Mac with what looked like some malicious javascript . But starting Safari in Safe mode , resetting to defaults and then a thorough cache cleaning ( we used Onyx ) removed the so called ransomware from his Mac . he was annoyed with himself for falling for it saying , " I knew better and never should have opened that video . " Yeah that does not fully answer your questions ( parts of 1 and 3 ) but an online search for articles on ransomware on Macs and a search of MacInTouch , might help educate you further . Or maybe someone here has some more experience with it .
I do not know if there is such a possibility to have this as a default behavior but you could simply move the application to your user application directory or anywhere else . Finder by default creates an alias when you drag an application out of the folder . However , if you hold down the " Command " key while dragging your applications , they will move to wherever you drag them . If you want to go a geekier route , you can also use Terminal and execute this command : After promting for your login password everything is fine . Be sure to be administrator of your system . This certainly works for me . I can use the application as usual and it receives all updates via the Mac App Store .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
Why do n't you make a new Bootcamp partition , download CCC for windows and let it do its job ?
end question
start question
Secret way to trigger Thesaurus on Mac OS X ?
It is possible that you pressed the esc key . Yosemite has a similar feature to iOS 8 's QuickType keyboard that " intelligently predicts " what you are trying to type . It looks like this : Is this what appeared ?
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
It 's a usability bug . You have to open the App Store , log-in , and only then will the Resume option work . To resume , you can also click " Download " on the OS X Mavericks line in the Purchases table of the App Store . Since there 's no instant feedback as to whether anything is being downloaded unless your connection is very fast , you can use Activity Monitor to check whether network download seems to be saturated . An alternative is iStat Menus ( non-free with 14 day free trial ) . There , you can not only see that data is downloaded , but you can confirm that it is the process that does the downloading .
The PowerPC and Intel Macs are totally different architectures , so you are correct , you could only really emulate a PowerPC install on an intel machine , versus virtualize Windows/Mac OS/Linux on a intel machine . There are some PowerPC emulators , but the one I know of for OS X would be <URL> . I have used PearPC a very long time ago , and do n't know how well these work on newer machines . Up until Lion however , at least PowerPC software was emulated using <URL> . This was dropped in Lion though . If you really do need a PowerPC machine , for dedicated work , I would personally buy a used older machine from ebay , which would be rather inexpensive depending on what kind of power you need . Note : Removed iEmulator because its made more for emulating windows or linux on a intel OR PPC mac .
The free screen capture tools built into QuickTime and the OS will allow you to take full screen video capture as well as partial captures . You can then edit these down using preview and iMovie to crop and adjust them . This takes time , so there is room for some inexpensive apps that help you by pre-defining the capture area so you do n't have to edit down a larger file or worry about being pixel perfect each time you make another capture using the mouse/trackpad . I use <URL> for static images and used <URL> for video images until Mavericks came out . It does n't work now , so <URL> is my tool of choice if QuickTime does n't cut it . I 'm hoping Screeny gets updated since it 's lighter and simpler . Nothing will replace ScreenFlow for big projects due to it 's post production workflow tools , but you might be well served by a less expensive option or even prefer simplicity over complexity if that 's more important than a one time cost . Skitch is currently free , Screeny is $ 15 and ScreenFlow $ 99 - all are available on the Mac App Store .
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
The best advice . Trail both and then decide . I was a long time fan of VMWare , however recently moved to Parallels . Side by side , Parallels gave me a 5.1 experience index for Windows 7 , and VMWare Fusion gave me a 4.9 . Performance wise both are solid on my hardware , however I prefer the interface and coherence features of Parallels over Unity . This is however a personal preference . Full disclosure : I run a MacBook Pro i7 , 8GB 's of RAM and a 500GB 7200RPM HDD . Both product does the job , and both work well . They are also in the same price bracket . You also ca n't compare features since both have the same functionality , just the method of implementation differs . The choice between the two is really up to you and how you use Windows virtualised . I game in Windows , and Parallels provided me a better experience . I also had issues running Expression Web , Silverlight and WPF in VMWare due to the graphics card , but this has apparently been resolved in the latest update . My wife however prefers VMWare and finds it easier to use then Parallels . Moving machines between the two are fairly easy . Use one for the full trail , and then transfer your machine to the other and trial it . Do a comparison on which one works for you .
Simplified explanation : When an application is started , an entry is written to disk that says this app is currently active . When an application quits , that entry is removed . When the system starts and finds entries in this list , it 's an indicator that the system crashed or did not shut down properly and it can offer to relaunch those apps for you . It takes virtually no practical overhead at all to track this . Each application individually may also be tracking which documents you opened pretty much the same way and then reopen your documents when it is being launched . There 's no need to " constantly track the state of everything " , the system just needs to make a few notes here and there when key events happen ( such as an application launching or quitting ) .
No , because of completely different executable-architectures . Only if you 're willing to recompile them for OSX and they 're Darwin based .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
end question
start question
How does System Information break down the Storage report ?
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
The temperature shown does come from the Weather App . Small bits of data on the watch face are known as complications . Tapping the temperature on the watch face will open the Weather app thus revealing the source of the data . The watch gets the data from your iPhone which , in turn , uses location and data from the Internet . You may find more useful information in the <URL> .
On a new Mac ( presumably one that uses an Intel i5 or better processor ) , I think the hassle of rebooting to use BootCamp outweighs the benefit . I would run both Ubuntu and your favorite flavor of Windows in one of the Virtual Machine products . Some prefer <URL> because it is free . I 'm not in that camp , and I think it has poorer performance than the competing solutions . That leaves <URL> or <URL> . I 've used both , and find little difference between them in real-world usage . I use VMWare Fusion , myself . I would purchase whichever one you can find at a discount . I note that you can often find Parallels included in the Mac software bundle deals that pop up several times a year .
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
First , the AppleScript that inspects the key state and handles the mic enabling and muting : Note , that the script depends on the <URL> ( and it 's path ) . inspects the state of shift instead of caps lock ( other possibilities are cmd , option , control and caps lock - caps lock , however , means the status of caps lock , not the key state ! ) In the second step we bind the script to a key shortcut . There are many applications that can do this ( some listed in <URL> ) or as an Automator service . ( C&amp;P from Lri 's answer ... ) One more option is to save the script as an Automator service : Open Automator and choose the Service template . Utilities -- Run Shell Script / Run AppleScript . Service receives [ no input ] in [ any application ] . Add the script to the text area and save . Assign a shortcut in System Preferences -- Keyboard -- Keyboard Shortcuts -- Services . So , I assigned opt + shift + M to the script above and it enables the mic , keeping it unmuted as long as I hold shift . The mic is muted again when I release shift .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
According to <URL> , " I know the original locations are stored in ~ / . Trash / . DS_Store " . is the name of the file that stores various Finder-related information . Following that question , there is also <URL> and <URL> , which do n't quite look like duplicates but talk about some of the details a bit more .
Unless you do some serious data crunching with your Mac , you should n't need to worry about SSD wear . It does happen , but any relatively recent SSD does a lot to combat it , both by minimizing write amplification , and by setting aside spare area to do wear levelling and compensate for bad flash . If you 're really worried about it , you can still sleep , but not use hibernate mode , meaning that nothing gets written to disk . Just open Terminal and run . You can then delete the sleep file to free up some space : .
You might be able to remove Apple 's Color Emoji font , but you can not remove it with FontBook . Instead , go to / System/Library/Fonts / and drag " Apple Color Emoji.ttf " to the Trash . You must authenticate yourself as an administrator to do this . I have n't tested this , and I do n't know if your computer will catch fire .
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
I 'm not sure that Tivoli gets these finer details absolutley correct . In terms of backing up files and applications these are fine , but when it comes to passwords , attributes and preferences etc , then no , not always . I have just spoken to a pal who uses IBM systems in a Mac and PC magazine publishing environment and prefers his staff on Macs to use Time Machine as the standard back-up to their servers , rather than the PC users who use Tivol as standard .
This is the iCloud Mail service . Turning it on provides the iCloud mail account for Mail.app to use , nothing more . It is basically an automated method of entering the iCloud mail server information into Mail.app to configure your @icloud . com email account , per this Apple KB article : <URL> It does not sync other accounts in any way - settings or emails of other accounts are not affected by this setting , just your @icloud . com or @me . com account . You can read more about iCloud Mail at this Apple KB article : <URL>
I have the same machine ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . A quick web search seems to indicate that my 2.2 GHz model has an <URL> . According to <URL> , the supported memory types are actually DDR3-1066 / 1333/1600 . ( Incidentally , the memory limit is also 32 GB , but this may require more than two slots ; I 'm not sure . ) Technically , this CPU does n't have a traditional " front side bus " , which is a connection between the CPU and an external memory controller . Its memory controller is integrated with the CPU , meaning that the supported RAM configuration is n't further subject to the specifications of an external memory controller . So , it does seem like this system plausibly supports 1600 MHz RAM , after all ! I 'll be sure to keep that in mind when I upgrade to 16 GB . :) Interestingly , when I open the same dialog in " About This Mac " , my system reports that it supports 1333 MHz memory . It seems like it might just report the current memory speed .
Indeed it 's possible to extract dictionaries : Someone else already investigated the issue and published the result in his <URL> . The quintessence : Copy the code below and paste it in a * . c document named dedict.c : and this code and paste it in a * . c document named strip.c : Then open Terminal and cd to the folder containing the two * . c files and execute ( in the example one of the dicts in / Library/Dictionaries / is used , you may use any other in the same folder and then have to replace the name " Oxford Dictionary of English " in line 3 below ) : First four results visible in words ( it 's getting better later ) : This should work at least in OS X 10.7 - 10.10 .
The <URL> article pegs it at 600MB difference on the iPhone 5 . DEVICE SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 7.1.2 ) SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 8.0 GM ) 32GB iPhone 4S ( AT&T ) 27.4 GB 26.6 GB 32GB iPhone 5 ( VZW ) 27.3 GB 26.7 GB 32GB iPhone 5C ( AT&T ) 27.2 GB 26.5 GB 64GB iPhone 5S ( AT&T ) 56.0 GB 55.1 GB
I was going to chalk it up to the developer just being lazy and selecting the default value and tab-completing when creating their app . However , I tried it out for myself ( create a new iOS app project , edit the file and add the following new row ) : You can see that the first auto complete option for mode is , meaning the developer had to consciously choose the second option for it to be right sided as in your app . This supports stuffe 's conjecture that this is done because most users are right handed . The screenshot above are the options for iPad . The iPhone has the same set , except for the second one , which is absent . AFAIK , Apple does n't advocate the use of a specific orientation as a default . Their <URL> only say the following re : <URL> Launch your app in your supported orientation , regardless of the current device orientation . For example , if your game or media-viewing application runs in landscape only , it 's appropriate to launch your app in landscape , even if the device is currently in portrait . This way , if people start your application in portrait , they know to rotate the device to landscape to view the content . Support both variants of an orientation . For example , if your application runs only in landscape , people should be able to use it whether they 're holding the device with the Home button on the right or on the left . And , if people rotate the device 180 degrees while using your application , it 's best if you can respond by rotating your content 180 degrees . On iPad , strive to satisfy users ' expectations by being able to run in all orientations . The large iPad screen mitigates people 's desire to rotate the device to landscape to " see more . " And , because people do n't pay much attention to the minimal frame of the device or the location of the Home button , they do n't view the device as having a default orientation . This lack of awareness of an app 's default orientation leads people to expect apps to run well in the device orientation they 're currently using . As much as possible , your application should encourage people to interact with iPad from any side by providing a great experience in all orientations . So as you can see , they do n't advocate for any particular orientation and encourage the developer to support all orientations . Also see <URL> . However , <URL> uses an example with code for right-oriented apps ( i.e. , home button on the right ) . So another explanation -- apart from the developer 's own UX inclinations -- is a copy-paste effect :)
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
Does The ARD Administrator client use a ping ( ICMP_ECHO ) to determine client status ? A lot of firewalls silently swallow echo requests , even of the host is up . Therefore , you may be getting false reports about host status .
Buy an <URL> from OWC or another vendor . Buy and put your SSD in the enclosure . Connect SSD/enclosure to your computer . Format the SSD with Apple 's Disk Utility . Use <URL> to copy your entire internal HD onto the SSD . Set startup to the SSD and boot from it to make sure it boots . Remove SSD from enclosure and install in MacBook Pro . Put MacBook Pro 's internal hard disk in now empty enclosure and use it as a backup . You also can use Disk Utility to image the drive if you do n't want to use a third party product like <URL> or <URL> . Some people also prefer a simple USB to SATA connector and you can usually get them for less than $ 5 from Amazon if you do n't need or want a drive enclosure for your old drive . However , the use of your old hard disk in an enclosure and a backup tool like SuperDuper ! or CCC gives you both an external drive and the beginning of a solid backup solution as well .
If you are not afraid of using , you can run to get the size of each application .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get digital audio output from a MacBook Air ( 2011 ) , like on other Macs ?
Yes its possible and here is an example of a USB to Digital audio output adapter , just like the ones found on other Macs , but external . <URL>
Since the release of Mac OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) , there is no installer media . The OS is <URL> , and reinstalled from a <URL> that is created on the hard drive . Eventually , Apple will allow you to <URL> that contains the OS . For now , you can <URL> ( or burn a DVD ) . It is expected that your computer did n't come with a USB drive for the OS , and the other models no longer come with DVDs .
Open the Mac App Store ( / Applications/App Store.app ) Download the OS X Mavericks app . Run it from the / Applications folder if it does n't automatically run . Follow the instructions .
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
Your mac ( and mine too ) is not compatible with airdrop between mac and iOS System Requirements To see if your Mac works with AirDrop , make sure you 're in the Finder by clicking the desktop ( the background area of your screen ) , or by clicking the Finder icon in the Dock . Then , check to see if AirDrop is listed as an option in the Go menu . If you do n't see AirDrop listed , your Mac does n't support this feature . In order to transfer files between a Mac and and an iPhone , iPad or iPod touch your iOS device needs to include a lightning connector your iOS device needs iOS 7 or later installed your Mac needs to be a 2012 or later model with OS X Yosemite installed Your Mac and iOS device both need bluetooth and Wi-Fi turned on . You do not have to be connected to a specific Wi-Fi network source : <URL>
Yes , security vulnerabilities that would allow people to hack or infect Macs and iOS products do exist , though they 're not exploited very often . <URL> is an annual contest where competitors try to hack into machines to win them as prizes . Both Macs and iOS products are hacked most years . Here is <URL> : Friday , Apple released an update to its mobile operating system ( iOS 4.3.4 ) which patches a couple of vulnerabilities that left a door open for malware infections on the iPad , 3rd and 4th generation iPod touch , iPhone 4 , and iPhone 3GS . Apple 's update describes the CoreGraphics vulnerability as " A buffer overflow ... in FreeType 's handling of TrueType fonts . Viewing a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution . " [ ... ] This update comes on the heels of an alert from German IT group BSI , which warned of an unpatched vulnerability that would " allow attackers to gain access to the entire system with administrative privileges . " Apple does " verify " any software for their App Stores , but developers have been known to sneak in features without Apple 's testers seeing them , so do n't expect this to entirely protect you .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
Based on how Time Machine consolidates it backups , unless there is an unpublished method to modify how Time Machine is coded to do this ( and I do n't think there is ) , I 'd say no , you can not prevent specific backups from getting deleted . That said , why are you trying to preserve specific backups , to what end and do you only need files from your Home Folder or the entire Macintosh HD ? Additionally , Time Machine backups are not bootable and if what you 're looking for is a full bootable backup of the systems at a given point in time , you need to make a bootable clone of the drive at that time . You can use <URL> , <URL> or from the Recovery HD , use Disk Utility or in Terminal from the Recovery HD use , etc. .
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
You have two options . The first is to use Terminal to set the folder 's flag . Open Terminal from and type the following command : where is the name of the user 's home folder . This will hide the folder from Finder , but other users could still find it , or change Finder 's preferences to show hidden folders . Alternatively , you could place the home folder for that user in a different location . Open the Users &amp; Groups ( or Accounts ) pane in System Preferences , click the lock to unlock it , right-click on the user , and choose . Then click the Choose button after and find a different location ( you might want to press Shift + Command + . to show hidden folders for this ) . Now , the user 's home will be in a different place so others will have a harder time finding it .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
Yes , The answer is positive . The power bank capable to charge a laptop needs to supply not only the USB standard charging port but also ( or only ) a DC output port , or a build-in power inverter with an AC outlet . Here i collect some power bank that can charge laptop : 1 . Anker ® Astro Pro2 Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 20000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 12V 16V 19V for iPad Air , Mini , iPhone , Samsung Galaxy , Note , HP , Dell , Acer , Asus , Toshiba Netbooks 2 . RAVPower ® Xtreme 3-Port Portable External Battery Charger with Multi-Voltage 23000mAh Multi-Voltage 9V/12V/16V / 19V/20V -- for Apple Macbook , UltraBook , Digital Cameras , Surface Tablets , Asus Tablets and more 3 . Poweradd ™ Pilot Pro Monster Capacity Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 32000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 9V 12V 16V 19V 20V for Tablet PC , Netbooks , Notebooks , Laptops , Smart Phones 4 . BiXPower 153 Wh ( 42500mAh ) Super High Capacity 12V &amp; 19V External Rechargeable Battery Pack -- BiXPower BP160 Made with high quality Panasonic Li-ion battery cells . Compact size can easily fit into a laptop/notebook carry bag 5 . Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones 6.Qi-Infinity ™ Powergrid External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 34200mAh For Laptops , Notebooks , Netbooks , Tablets and Smart Phones 7 . Lizone ® Extra Pro Super Capacity Portable External Battery Charger 40000mAh For Apple Books , HP , IBM Lenovo , Tablets , Smartphones and more 8 . Intocircuit ® Power Castle PC26000 External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 26000mAh 12 Connectors for Laptops , 10 Connectors for Phones and Tablets , AC Adapter Included There are power banks available with various plug in connectors for laptops , but they cost around 15,000 . I have seen one on ebay india , and the ad says that they 've even sold 29 units . These are not marketed by laptop manufacturers so I am not sure what your laptop warranty status will be if you purchase one of these banks and use it charge your laptop . Most laptops charges through its adapter only . Powerbanks on the other hand have only usb 2 output interface . Replacing laptop batteries with Extra cell batteries available in the market can help . One desi jugaad is using a UPS to charge a lappy but it wont make it handy and portable .
Just figured it out - Connect to AirPlay , so that both video and audio streams are going to the TV Open System Preferences > Sound . Click " output " tab . Select your bluetooth speakers . Voila .
The memory for the MacBook Pro 8,1 ; 8,2 and 8,3 is the same as for the iMac 12,1 and 12,2 . Just as a point of clarity , the models possible are : Early 2011 MacBook Pro Late 2011 MacBook Pro Mid 2011 iMac Late 2011 iMac
It does n't matter when you plug it in . You can even remove ( not advised though ) the battery and still use it when the adapter is plugged in . I can imagine the battery does not work properly ( or even work at all ) when it hits the 0 %
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
Here are the steps I use to install Windows without needing to burn to a DVD or flash drive . Keep in mind that the final product will NOT be a virtual machine : Install VirtualBox from <URL> . Make sure it installs the command line tools . Once installed , open it and create a new VM by clicking " New " on the top left . Select the type to be " Microsoft Windows " , and select the version as " Windows 8.1 ( 64 bit ) " , then give it a name of your choosing . Click " Continue " Click continue again ( it wo n't matter how much RAM you give it for this process ) . Select " Do not add a virtual hard drive " . We will be creating one on our own for our purposes . Click " Create " , then " Continue " . Now we have to open the Terminal . Type the following command : . From the list of disks , make a note of the disk identifier in the last column that belongs to the 30GB partition you created for Windows . We will need this in the next step Run the command . Replace disk #s # with the identifier from earlier . Enter your password and push return . Also run . Use the same identifier , but replace the last number with a 1 . Also run using the first half of your identifier ( minus the s # part ) . Unmount the disk by typing again , using your identifier . Now we have to create the disk for the VM to use for installation . Run the command . Replace " disk # " with the appropriate first half of the identifier from earlier , and replace the second # sign with the last number in your identifier . Unmount the disk again , using your identifier . Now you should have a " . vmdk " file in your home folder . Go back into VirtualBox , select the VM you created , and click " Settings " . Select the " Storage " tab , click on the " SATA " controller and click the second " + " sign directly to right of the controller ( the hover text is " Add Hard Disk ) . ( Note : Due to a fairly old bug , you ca n't command + tab away from the selection window we 're about to create without VirtualBox bugging out and requiring a restart of the app . Try to complete this in one step ) Click " Choose existing disk " , and navigate to the VMDK we just created , which should be in your home folder . Click it and select " Open " . Now you should see the newly added disk just below the " SATA " controller . Click on " Empty " just below the " IDE " controller , check " Live CD/DVD " , and click the little CD icon next to " IDE Secondary " . ( Note : The same bug applies here . Try to do this in one step . ) Click " Choose a virtual CD/DVD disk file ... " , navigate to your ISO , and open it . Start the VM and install windows on the 30G partition . When the installation is done and you 're logged in , shut down Windows and you should see the disk created by Windows appear on the desktop . You can get the Boot Camp drivers for your laptop from <URL> . Put this on a flash drive formatted as ExFAT or FAT so Windows can read it . You should now be able to reboot into Windows by holding alt down , or selecting the disk in Startup Disk preferences . This is a long process , but I believe I 've covered all the steps involved ... Let me know if anything goes wrong !
end question
start question
How to remove an Adobe ' upgrade ' ?
I solved it . I moved the / Library/Application Support/Adobe/Slcache and Slstore into a backups folder . Then I ran the installer again . Running the uninstaller did not remove these files before - that 's why we kept getting the error .
After some experimenting , I found a <URL> . Create a directory . Create a symlink to from Java 8 . If missing , create an empty directory . You 'll probably need to be to do this , so use using an administrative account ( consult an expert if you are inexperienced , use at your own risk ) : You can ignore errors stating that something already exists .
Setting aside whether you are actually done with the prior version of Xcode ( as older versions have some capabilities and older SDK that the newer versions no longer support - you might want to keep an old machine with an old Xcode around if you are supporting legacy software products - but let 's assume you do n't care about anything other than making new programs with the newest Xcode ) let 's dive in with the steps . To prepare for the new Xcode , it is easiest to uninstall all previous versions of Xcode by following the uninstall documentation for each version you have installed . For Xcode 4.1 you will want to run the perl script to clean things up : Uninstalling Xcode Developer Tools To uninstall Xcode developer tools on the boot volume along with the directory , from a Terminal window type : For the new Xcode , the App Store does n't normally show the download progress so you must track it from <URL> or just by watching the / Applications folder in Finder . It shows INSTALLING as depicted above , but the Launchpad view has a live progress bar and summary of the 1.61 GB download as depicted below .
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
Go to settings , general , usage , music , swipe across all music and tap delete . If that does n't work , try restoring it in iTunes . Plug it in and turn your iPod off , then hold the power and home buttons for eight seconds ( a little bit after the screen turns black again ) then release the power button but hold the home button for about seven seconds , or until iTunes recognizes it and tells you to restore it . After it is restored you will be able to restore your save data with iCloud if your device runs ios 5 . If it does n't , wait for another answer .
As no answers are forthcoming , I 'll report here my findings . On 2015-09-16 , before iOS 9 GA , I removed the " Beta " profile from the iPad and rebooted . After reboot , says : iOS 9.0 . Software is up to date The version of the software is So it looks good . There 's an oddity , though . When I 've rebooted ( and hard-restart too to be on the safe side ) , every time I unlock the iPad I still get a notification saying : There 's an update available . Update the iOS 9 beta version . I hope that when 9.0 final comes up , the update check will pick it and I 'll be back into mainline versions . I 'll update here when things change . Edit 2015-09-16 19:39 CEST : Apple has just released v9 .0 final and going to software update in Settings I get prompted to upgrade , so it looks like I 'll be able to get back to mainstream . The notification after login stills says the same . Will report later when I have the chance to upgrade . Edit 2015-09-18 : After installing the 9.0 update , and the subsequent reboot , the device says its updated to 9.0 and I no longer get the prompt to update -- so all seems to be fine ! Edit 2015-09-25 : Just a final update to confirm that after a few days running , all seems to be fine . I 've just got the prompt to update to 9.0.1 , so I seem to be fully in " mainstream " now .
When in the boot manager ( the one when you press ⌥ Option on startup ) , click on the arrow ( for the Mac OS X partition ) . The boot priority should then default to the Mac OS X one . Otherwise , you can try going to the Startup Disk preference pane in System Preferences , and try setting it ( by restarting ) .
If you are in the US or Canada , you can call 1-800-MY-APPLE to order Snow Leopard directly from Apple telesales . It should only be $ 20 , a discount from the original $ 30 price . This will only work if you have an Intel Mac , of course .
From <URL> Adobe and Apple have worked closely together to test Adobe ® Creative Cloud applications and Adobe Creative Suite 6 applications for reliability , performance and user experience when installed on Intel ® based systems running Mac OS X Mavericks . ( v10 .9 ) . All Adobe CC and CS6 products are compatible , but a few products require updates to the latest builds to work properly . Adobe Photoshop ® CS5 , CS4 and CS3 were also tested with Mac OS X Mavericks and there are currently no major issues known .
Quick Answer Modern batteries , including the ones Apple has used for over a decade , do n't need the type of " conditioning " you 're talking about . As a rule of thumb , when you 're near an power adapter , plug in . If you 're not near one , work off battery power . There 's just one exception to this rule : do n't leave your Mac plugged in for long periods at a time , say , over a week . The battery needs to exercise , and if it 's plugged in for a really long time , it might " atrophy . " More Details If you tend to leave your computer plugged in all the time ( for example , if you leave it on a desk all the time ) , get in the habit of unplugging it every weekend . It does n't need to drain to 0 % each weekend , or even close to it . Along this same line , if you 're leaving your computer along for over a week , just leave it unplugged . The one-week timeframe is actually a bit over-cautious , and no harm is likely to occur even if you left it plugged in for two weeks . ( Apple 's batteries are the best on the market as far as taking care themselves . ) Sources I 'm an Apple-Certified Mac Technician , trained by Apple Apple 's public website : <URL>
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
Option 2 in your question is the correct one . In the <URL> section of the upgrade program site you posted it says you have to pay 11 monthly payments ( you might as well think of it as 12 months because the upfront payment is in essence your first month ) . So when you have paid the monthly installment 11 times , you have 2 options : Turn in the phone for an upgrade while restarting both timers ( the 11 monthly payments + 1st down payment and the 20 month full contract ) . Continue paying for the phone until the 20 month contract is done and the phone is 100 % yours . The important thing here is that you are never paying for your old phone once you upgrade it .
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
Apple wants you to buy the <URL> in order to upgrade from Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 to Snow Leopard . Technically , you the <URL> retail package will upgrade intel based Macs running Mac OS X Tiger 10.4 , however it is against the terms of the End User License Agreement ( EULA ) . The <URL> includes additional software that typically comes with a new Mac ( and some that does n't ) and it is recommended by Apple to ' upgrade your Mac experience ' because it is more like buying a new Mac than just upgrading the operating system . To hear it straight from Apple , here are the answers from Alan Eyzaguire , director of software product marketing at Apple Europe to this question . " We just think that Apple customers could really benefit from having those . They 're great software . " " it 's great when people get the full experience " " if you have Snow Leopard it 's great to have the latest iWork and iLife " " we wanted to make that [ upgrade ] as attractive as possible " " you get it almost for free " " it 's a steal ! " " Technically , yes , it would upgrade a Tiger install , but in the licensing , no . " ( <URL> )
One option is to boot from your Mac OS X Install CD and edit the partitions using the Disk Utility ( found in the menu ) . This can be very handy for removing partitions that just wo n't die .
You have a couple of options that I can see : You can create a second Apple ID for the " purchase " ( and any other free apps you want ) . All you need is another email address to link the second account to . Apple generally recommends using a single Apple ID for both iCloud and App Store , but it 's not required , and since all you 're " buying " is a free upgrade , it does n't matter much which ID you use for the purchase . In order to get the " none " option for payment , you need to create the Apple ID while " buying " a free app ( such as Yosemite ) . The full process is given in <URL> , but here 's the short summary : Open the App Store , and make sure you 're not already signed into an Apple ID ( if the Store menu has a " Sign Out " choice , use it ) . Find a free app ( e.g. Yosemite ) , and click Get . In the Sign In dialog , click Create Apple ID . Follow the prompts to create the Apple ID ; as long as you 're creating it at this point , you should get the " none " option for payment . A verification email will be sent to the address you used for this ID . You need to click the " Verify Now " link in the email and sign in again before you can use the ID for the App Store . After all that , you have to go back to the App Store application , sign in with the new ID , and " Get " Yosemite . The other option , which might or might not be workable for you , is to borrow a friend 's credit card for the setup process , then go into iTunes and change the payment type to " none " ( see <URL> ) . Note that while the card wo n't be charged ( unless you buy something on it ) , a temporary authorization hold will be placed against it to verify its info .
If you do n't have other Mail accounts with data that you want , quit Mail.app and delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , quit Mail.app , open the V2 folder inside the above path and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
<URL> and <URL> . The port DB format is the default for new installations ; old installations that were upgraded to 1.9.x will continue to use the format1 . You can convert a 1.9.x system to the format by upgrading to MacPorts 2.0 or by changing the value in and then issuing a port command as root ( e.g. ) . One of the features of the new format is that it keeps track of " requested " versus " unrequested " port installations . An unrequested port is one that was only installed because some other port depends on it . The pseudo-portname expands to all the unrequested ports upon which no other installed port depends . You can use this to " clean up " unneeded ports even if you did not originally uninstall them with ( which will do what you want , but only if you remember to use it every time you uninstall something ) . You should examine your existing leaves before uninstalling any of them . Some common leaves ( , , , ) are build-time dependencies of common ports , so you may want to " request " them ( ) to avoid uninstalling them just to have to reinstall them later . You can uninstall any remaining leaves quite easily : Note : Before pruning your leaves , you may also want to uninstall old versions of ports that are no longer " active " . This may reveal a few more leaves ( i.e. ports that are dependencies of ports that are installed , but inactive ) : There are <URL> in the <URL> that also describe the process of using to uninstall unneeded ports .
end question
start question
Is there a beginners guide to Unix from the OS X point of view ?
Well , there is always <URL> but back when I learned my way around the Terminal , I found <URL> quite entertaining and educational ( given it suits your humour ) . If you ´ d rather go for a book , I ´ d highly recommend <URL> .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
You need 10.6 Server . It does not help to change the settings to 10.6 Server , you have to use 10.6 Server as operating system on the USB-Stick ... or you can try some hacks , e.g. Hackintosh ( search for it in Google ) in a virtual environment but that 's a little bit more complicated you can check <URL> for this .
These are U + fb01 and fb02 , Latin Small Ligature Fl and Fi . They are in Unicode really only because they were contained in legacy 8 bit character sets like MacRoman , but should no longer be used for anything . In modern technology such ligatures are created by fonts on the basis of the underlying codes for the separate characters , which is what should aways be input in place of option shift 5/6 .
Step one - try the free trial of <URL> ( 30 $ ) . Step two - buy it . These is no step three . It 's that good .
Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems . I would recommend apps like 1password or the many other pieces of software out there that do the same thing to keep your passwords safe and backed up . I have way to many passwords to remember and it has been a life saver . 1Password even has the ability to back up your passwords to dropbox just in case something happens to your phone and you need to access it from somewhere else . There are a lot of different password managing apps out there , just find the right one for you . As gtm above me stated , there is a way to access your passwords but it is through jailbreaking . I do not recommend jailbreaking , that is something that you have to make the decision on for yourself . Jailbreaking is not for everyone . I know this may not have been the answer you were looking for , we have all been there when we forget a password and there is n't a way to retrieve it . The easier thing you can do is just reset the password on your router and make sure to keep that password safe . I hope this answer helps somewhat .
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
I have found it myself . It 's already built in in OS X . In System Preferences , goto Network and at the top of the window , you can see a combobox which says : Location . You have to click it and select Edit Locations . At this picture I have already created my Home Network . Create and configure the Home network . And click Apply afterwards . Close the window . From now on you can choose which configuration ( or Location ) you want to use by opening the Apple-menu ( ) in the Menu Bar . And choose from the Location submenu .
Simplified explanation : When an application is started , an entry is written to disk that says this app is currently active . When an application quits , that entry is removed . When the system starts and finds entries in this list , it 's an indicator that the system crashed or did not shut down properly and it can offer to relaunch those apps for you . It takes virtually no practical overhead at all to track this . Each application individually may also be tracking which documents you opened pretty much the same way and then reopen your documents when it is being launched . There 's no need to " constantly track the state of everything " , the system just needs to make a few notes here and there when key events happen ( such as an application launching or quitting ) .
Zenmap can Absolutely provide NetBIOS names ( the names you are referring to ) . Furthermore , you can tweak the nMap scan to only scan for up IP addresses , and NetBIOS details , which should really significantly reduce the scan duration . Furthermore , it should , if you are willing to fall back to the terminal , be possible to make it update pretty rapidly , maybe every ~ 30 seconds . For example , with the Zenmap command of : Note : I use the IP prefix . in your case , this will likely be The is the netmask . In this case , it causes nMap to scan everything from - . To use , you just paste the line above into the " Command " entry box in Zenmap Here is a scan of my LAN : As you can see , it has resolved the information for all computers on my LAN that are reporting NetBIOS information . It also did all the above in ~ 9.4 seconds . I did this on my windows computer because my mac ( Apparently appropriately named iCrap , as you can see in the scan results ) is freaking out at the moment , and I can not restart it because I have some big file transfers in process . Nmap is platform agnostic , so the platform on which you do this scan should not matter . I did test this on the mac from the command line only , and it worked fine there too ( well , it did trip the flood protection on my managed switch , but that 's another issue ) . I 've edited the MAC address out from the scan . I can add more information on how to set this up to scan continuously from the command line , if you would like . You can see more information on the script that I am using to query NetBIOS information <URL> . The nmap <URL> is also very useful , for understanding what is going on .
No ; iOS does not provide any options or control for wallpaper positioning - you set the file and it does what it does .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
There does not appear to be a built-in keyboard shortcut to change the position of a given tab amongst other tabs in Safari . At least none listed in the Apple Support Documents listed below . <URL> <URL> <URL> One might be able to create an Automator Service with a Run Apple Script Action to manipulate tabs in a Safari windows and then assign it a keyboard shortcut in Keyboard System Preferences , however I 'd imagine it might not be to easy to code . Update : I looked through the Safari AppleScript Dictionary and played around with the coding of an AppleScript script to manipulated tab ordering , or I should say the appearance of tab ordering , as even a simple command such as required a refresh of the URL . In other words whether or not I coded it via or switching the URL of the current and next tab , etc , all methods I tried forces/requires a refresh of the URL , where dragging and dropping a tab only changes the tab order and does not refresh any tab when done in a DnD manner . In conclusion , if you do n't mind the tab URL being refreshed then the appearance of drag and drop can be accomplished however to physically move a tab without it refreshing would probably require the use of third-party utilities and much more complex coding then coding using or swapping the URLs of adjacent tabs , etc. .
I 'm using <URL> on my Mac and iPhone for pretty much all my note-taking . It automatically syncs notes between computers/devices , so might not be for you if you only want local notes . I find it 's really convenient for accessing my notes everywhere , though . It does n't look like big sticky notes , instead you get a list view of your notes with a preview , from which you can open the entire note . I find it really pretty , but it might not be the aestethic you 're after . Edit : Forgot to mention that I use the <URL> widget on my Macs . There are other options as well , but they mainly come as stand-alone programs .
If they are using real Unicode emoji , you can not see them without the Apple Color Emoji font , which only works in 10.7 , or possibly by downloading and installing a black/white font that has them , like Symbola or Quivira . Unicode emoji were only standardized in October of 2010 and I think there are various apps which may not recognize them anyway . Here is Timothy 's test using the Symbola font in 10.6
end question
start question
iCloud backup from old 4S to new 4S ?
Backups are generally portable across any and all iOS device . Could the new device be at a lower software level ? Try an over the air update to ios 5.0.1 and also be sure everything is exact in the account . xxx@mac.com is not always the same as xxx@me.com .
There are two things you can do about this , one on the device and one on <URL> : On the device , you can setup to sync the calendar only for the events in the past two weeks ( that 's the shortest duration in the past you can set it to ) . Do this by going to Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars Under the Calendars section , go to the Sync submenu Select Events 2 Weeks Back Login to <URL> , go to Calendar and follow Apple 's help on " <URL> " : To automatically hide past events , choose Preferences from the Action pop-up menu , click Advanced , select " Hide events n-days after they 've passed , " then enter a number of days . Set it to 1 day ( that 's the minimum allowed ) .
Booting from an install media such as a Snow Leopard install DVD will not boot to your desktop . Instead , it will boot to the OS installed on the disc and whilst this is OS X , there 's no Finder for you to move files around . However , the disc does come with Terminal and you can use it to copy your files to somewhere else , another disk , etc. . There are numerous tools that you can use in Terminal to copy files , but for individual files/folders as mentioned in your question you can simply to copy them . Then , using the disc , reinstall Snow Leopard and copy your files back once booted back ( using the now-available Finder ) .
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
I would suggest doing a DFU restore . You can do this by : Plug your iPhone into a computer running the latest version of <URL> . Hold the home button and the sleep/wake button for exactly 8 seconds . After this 8 seconds is up , release the sleep/wake button , but continue to hold the home button until iTunes recognizes your iPhone . Then , choose the Restore option ( this should be the only option ) and wait for iTunes to download the necessary software and restore your iPhone .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
The iPhone 4S is the same in every country . The only notable change is the default language configured on the device . And firmware/software locks for carrier or country locked phones . The important difference is that apparently the unlocked iPhone 4S in the US will not be supposed to work on CDMA networks ( rumor ) for undisclosed reasons . It is probably due to the primitive way CDMA phones are activated by CDMA carriers . Obviously the packaging changes ( depending on the region ) . Also the power brick is different depending on the country for example in Europe except British territories the power plug uses Type C plugs while UK uses Type B and the US have Type A plugs . All the iPhone 4S will " supposedly " have she same internals and the same firmwares . There are no other differences while the iPhone 4 has different firmwares for CDMA and GSM as there have been no variants for the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS models which were the same across the globe . BUT beware of the term unlocked . It does n't mean the phone is not SIM-locked . In some countries ( I have in mind the case of the iPhone 3G in Canada ) unlocked can mean not locked for the country carriers . Which means it is regionally SIM-locked , if you try to use it with any of the countries ' carriers it will work , but if you try to use it with a SIM from another country or an international SIM , it will be locked .
Yeah you sure can ! Find the picture in the Photos app , press the menu button in the bottom left corner and press Use as Wallpaper .
If it 's carrier locked , only the carrier it 's locked to can unlock it . If you want an unlock phone , the easiest way to get one is buying directly from Apple . These factory unlocked phones will unlock as soon as you connect them to iTunes ( and with iOS 5 possibly the first time you turn it on ) .
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
Just realized , it is on my side and my upload is saturated since I installed Photos - so it is not Apple 's fault : If I am not mistaken , it should be done in about 12-15 days .
In your Settings go to Messages > Send &amp; Receive and you should be able to set your preferences from there . Go to the " Start New Conversations From : " section and set your phone number to be the default . If your phone number does not appear , turn FaceTime off and on . Phone number should show up
To restore from backup connect the iPhone to your computer wait for it to appear in iTunes right-click on the iPhone listed under Devices and select " Restore from backup ... " select the backup you want to restore ( there may be several ) Restoring will only touch user-specific content and configurations .
To cut it short : This assumption is false . Cellphone are not able to cause high voltage sparks required to light gas . Probably only if short-circuited . Mythbusters <URL> this problem . Their answer was that such accidents were caused by <URL> on the person , not by cellphones . This is important to notice as " Petrol has a low electrical conductivity . This can cause a charge of static electricity to build up as it flows through a pipe . " [ 1 ] When both the petrol and the person are charged , there is a potential spark discharge in the gap between . Edit : A <URL> mentioned that research has been conducted on the matter by <URL> of the University of Kent . The publication is called : ' Phantom Risk : The Curious Case of Mobile Phones , Fire and Body Static , ' Health , Risk and Society 9 ( 1 ) 2007 ISSN : 1369-8575 and <URL> . [ 1 ] The Australian Transport Safety Bureau has published a paper called ' Static Fires at Petrol Stations ' which is publicly available for <URL> .
My specific situation was that initially I tried a backup version that was too late to contain the app required . Once I switched to an earlier backup , the app was there and successfully restored with all its data .
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
Speed is primarily limited by your 3G network connection . Battery wise , Bluetooth should use less power ( especially in the 4S ) but the difference may be quite small anyway . If you tether it with a MBP you may be better of with using the cable between iPhone and computer .
First option , there are some excellent services that provide online backup solutions for a reasonable price . Two examples are <URL> and <URL> . The advantage is that you can set it and forget it , and it will back up all your files ( with options for some things you might want to exclude ) . Another option is using Dropbox . You can move your iPhoto Library from your Pictures folder to the Dropbox folder and alias it to the original location ( drag using ⌘ option to make an alias instead of a copy ) . If you do n't alias it , iPhoto should just ask you where the library is stored when you relaunch it anyway . I do n't really think of services like Flickr as backup , they 're more of an online photo organizer , but yes they can be used that way too . There is no synchronization , so you have to upload your updated files manually .
You 'll need to copy two files from the old installation of OSX : The first tells Dashboard which Widgets to show , the second contains your notes . Copy these to your new and you should be good . You 'll need to restart , logout and login , or kill the Dock , for example by opening Terminal and running . It worked for me - but I should warn that my home path was the same on the old install and new install .
Tap Settings and then tap the iCloud icon . Tap " Storage &amp; Backup . " Tap Manage Storage . Tap your iOS device in the Backups area . Under Backup Options , turn off any items that you no longer wish to back up . Return to Storage &amp; Backup and tap " Back up now . " This will immediately remove the requested backup data from iCloud . Choose " Delete Backup " if you want to turn off Backup and remove all data for that Backup from iCloud . ( via <URL> )
end question
start question
Is the 120 FPS video recording 's quality 720P ?
According to <URL> the recording is at 720p . The specific recording details are : H. 264 codec 1280 x 720 resolution Millions of colours AAC , Mono Audio @ 44.100 kHz 120.15 FPS 29.72 mbits/s This all matches the recording quality of a ' regular ' iPhone video @ 30FPS , apart from the data rate which will vary from recording to recording . Note that the iPhone can record 30 fps @ 1080p , <URL> which means that the higher frame rate is at a lower resolution .
One possible solution would be to use a locked <URL> - clear , much tougher to break and with a headphone jack pass through .
To do it in the Emulator , you can just use Quicktime , since the latest version supports Screen Recording . Keep in mind though that it captures the entire screen and not just a particular window .
Search for in a browser . Or download one or several of the Apple update catalog files directly e.g : <URL> <URL> <URL> Open the file ( s ) with a decent text editor . Search the file for MLV_locale_name with locale : your preferred locale and name : the voice name . E.g. searching for MLV_it_IT_alice will reveal : containing the ServerMetadataURL and the direct pkg download URL : <URL> Enter the pkg download URLs in a browser or a download manager to get all desired voices .
As for your question , Is there anything new that has n't been done before , then one could be generous and say that the no-account-required and it-just-works is quite nice , as is the elegant use of front or rear cameras and the ability to switch between them , and the automatic landscape/portrait modes . That 's quite slick . But it 's not a competition-killer . On the whole , Facetime is the typical Apple feature -- very polished , but a limited feature-set , and only available to users on the exact same platform ( in this case , only iPhone 4 's , iPad 2 's and Macs ) . That alone limits the usefulness of the app quite a bit . For general-purpose video calling , there are general-purpose apps like Skype which do it better , and which even work over 3G ( if you 're lucky ) , and which are n't limited to specific Apple-only devices . I 'd recommend Skype over Facetime any day . ( Notice I did n't comment on the revolutionary issue either . )
Indeed there is . You can try <URL> - it encodes video on the fly and sends it straight to your AppleTV . I 've used it for a while now , and although it can be a little unstable from time to time , it really is very useful . Of course , you could always install XBMC following <URL> and control it , play all sorts of video , and make tons on neat customizations however you see fit . Good luck .
It could be pure out of memory , but it may be that both products are fighting over the OpenGL implementation that Adobe uses . Try this - it may need some fiddling to get the best balance [ this is for Photoshop , idk the precise locations for other Adobe apps ] In Prefs > Performance , reduce the overall memory requirement - it ought to handle this OK by itself , running into pagefile if needed , but just to see how it goes with this reduced ... Either disable " Use Graphics Processor " or open Advanced Settings ... &amp; selectively disable sections until you find which is causing the issue . If you decide to leave " Use Graphics Processor " on , then look in Prefs > 3D &amp; drop the memory requirement in there to half your card 's total memory , less a little for the system . All these tweaks will require you to relaunch each app , so it may take some time to finally settle at something that works best for you . The alternative , as you first surmised , would be to get a more powerful graphics card with greater memory - if that would be even possible on a Macbook , which I somehow doubt . <URL> states [ for the high-end i7 machine ] : NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M with 512 MB of dedicated GDDR3 memory and Intel HD Graphics with 256 MB of RAM shared with the system -- that Mac OS X automatically switches between for better graphics performance and better battery life , respectively , depending on application use . One thing you should definitely check is that it is at least switching over to the NVidia rather than using the Intel card . <URL> would be the go-to tool for that kind of task .
You might also be able to do this using Quicktime X. Open the movie , then choose Edit - > Trim ... Trim away the second part of the movie file and do a save as to get the first part in a separate file . Re-open the original file and trim away the first part , save as to get the second part in a separate file . I 've only been able to try it with a 5 minute long movie , which was quick enough , but I 'm unsure of how quickly it 'll work with a 2 hour movie .
<URL> creates " pseudo-video " devices for lots of different things , so you could display your desktop or any subset of it , or other content you choose . CamTwist 's feature set is likely very similar to Ryan Sharp 's suggestion for ManyCam .
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
Tap and hold , you will get a popover until you let go with the full details . Same works with music in the ipod app .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
According to <URL> the recording is at 720p . The specific recording details are : H. 264 codec 1280 x 720 resolution Millions of colours AAC , Mono Audio @ 44.100 kHz 120.15 FPS 29.72 mbits/s This all matches the recording quality of a ' regular ' iPhone video @ 30FPS , apart from the data rate which will vary from recording to recording . Note that the iPhone can record 30 fps @ 1080p , <URL> which means that the higher frame rate is at a lower resolution .
Unfortunately <URL> Best bet is external software OR Final Cut Pro 7 has numerous plugins that reduce noise and grain , but they are all very expensive .
I just tried it with a QuickTime movie and was able to run the exported . ppt in PowerPoint as well . But this is probably no guarantee that it will work in all cases given the multitude of video formats , codecs , drivers etc. . So in your case you probably get the best results if you start with a specific video format/codec on the Mac side ( QuickTime and either MPEG4 or H. 264 would be my first choice ) do a test run yourself , maybe involving various target PCs ( if this is a scenario you have to be able to work with ) stick to the setup once you have proven it to work
No , there is simply no way to encode HD resolution video onto a DVD . This is a common misconception . The DVD video format does not support HD resolution . DVD players can not reproduce 720HD video . If you want HD on a disk , that is what <URL> disks and Blu-ray console players are for . There was once a format called HD-DVD , but it is no longer supported by anybody and standard DVD players will not play back an HD-DVD at the intended resolution . <URL> is 1280 x 720 pixels per frame . The highest resolution that the <URL> can support is 720 x 480 pixels per frame for NTSC ( or 720 x 576 pixels per frame for PAL ) , which is at best only 37.5 % of the resolution of 720HD .
The recording is HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second with audio - but since both the audio and video are compressed using lossy algorithms , you might sometimes get significantly storage depending on the source . In practice the <URL> with the same HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second - but the few recording I 've seen from the iPod touch have data rates about half as high ( which use about half the space ) . My iPhone usually records between 2 and 10 Mbit/s . The lower end is for static , mostly black images and if things are moving or detailed , you get to the higher end of the range pretty easily . You can make some test recordings and open them in QuickTime Player where the inspector window will show you the details for the video you are shooting . A little pen and paper or a spreadsheet will convince you of how much time you can expect to capture before your device runs out of space .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
No , there really is not an easy way to run PPC apps on Mac anymore . Your OS X Rosetta disk will definitely fail to install on Mavericks . Apple <URL> support for Rosetta following the release of OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) and have never put it back . However , you still have a few ( harder ) options . Install Snow Leopard in a virtual machine . <URL> a guide . Pull out your old PowerPC Mac , if you still have it . Install Snow Leopard in a external hard drive or internal partition and use Rosetta . When Apple first published Rosetta , they said it was best for low computational apps like Word . In addition , Apple stated that games and high computational apps like CAD software or video editors/compositors would have issues running through Rosetta . COD will probably not run well through Rosetta . If all else fails , people still sell their old PPC 's on eBay .
end question
start question
Does anyone have experience with buying an officially unlocked iPhone 4 in the US ?
No , this is n't possible to do through official channels . The officially unlocked phones are unlocked from the manufacturer ; this is n't possible to do after the phone has been provisioned ( otherwise the iPhone hacking community would be all over this avenue rather than going after security holes in the baseband to achieve the same effect ) . Because if their agreement with AT&amp;T , Apple does not sell these units in the US , and every distributor outside of the US has to agree not to sell the units to US customers .
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
TL ; DR - Yes , the warranty is international , but you may have to pay shipping and wait longer for service if Apple USA ca n't find a local provider and/or you ca n't find a local provider for service while in Brasil . What holds true is an owner always can contact <URL> . In this case , a web query or phone call to the US offices of AppleCare are your best options from Brasil unless you can find a local service provider that will honor Apple 's US warranty . Most of the time , Apple providers get paid enough and are happy to get reimbursed directly from Apple and can rapidly determine warranty coverage from your serial number , but that 's really up to each local service provider to decide if and when they will do the work to accept a cross-border repair . I ca n't make a blanket statement that all will say no or yes since it 'll be somewhere in the middle most of the time . Check here for worldwide options - <URL> and here for options within Brasil - <URL>
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
No . This multitouch gesture ( as well as a few others ) are iPad only . The gestures existed for iPhones and iPods in the iOS 4.3 Beta , but were removed before the public release . iOS 5.0 re-introduced the gestures for iPad .
According to <URL> and <URL> the iPhone 4 is somewhat slower than the iPad , but still significantly faster than the iPhone 3GS . I guess that its A4 CPU is clocked at about 750 - 850 MHz .
From Apple website : You can begin using Swift code immediately to implement new features in your app , or enhance existing ones . New Swift code co-exists along side your existing Objective-C files in the same project , making it easy to adopt . And when iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite are released this fall , you can submit your apps to the App Store and Mac App Store . ref : <URL>
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
Check this : <URL> , it is not very recent , but should work for 3GS . The model number can also be found in Settings - > General - > About . This way you should be able to check if it is AT&amp;T or Rogers
A lot of searching around , and I finally found <URL> which works quite well . There is a slight build problem with v0 .92.3 when compiling with Lion and XCode 4.5.1 - there is a make error that it does not recognize " - Wno-unused-but-set-variable " . Just comment out that warning from the Makefile , and it compiles and runs well .
I suggest searching for podcasts on the iTunes web interface from within mobile Safari . Both Bing and Google accept a site parameter that will allow you to filter for a specific site . In thie case , you could search for a podcast and add the site : itunes.apple.com parameter at the end . Like this : this week in tech site : itunes.apple.com The search results in Safari should be easier to read . Each link should open in the iTunes app in your iPhone . Hope this helps .
Sort of ... you can go into Safari , choose a website , then click the bookmark icon , select the @ tab , click Subscriptions and then click Add Current Site . Otherwise Reeder for IOS is a great RSS reader . <URL>
If you bought the device without a contract , it 's unlocked ! The information about AT&amp;T and Verizon is important when talking about LTE availability in the US . Only AT&amp;T and Verizon provide LTE networks in the US that work with the iPad . 4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the U.S. and on Bell , Rogers , and Telus networks in Canada . <URL> This is important to note as LTE frequency bands used in Europe , Australia and probably most of Asia are <URL> . You will use DC-HSDPA , HSPA + or UMTS instead for fast internet access .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
You 're seeing some first indications of <URL> because you 're using your hand in ways you 're not used to , and possibly because the mouse does n't fit your hand . Switching to a normal mouse is a good first aid , especially since you noticed that the problem disappeared or became less of a problem . For some people , it just takes time to get used to new movements , while others wo n't be able to use the new device for longer periods of time . Those unlucky people should not force themselves to use devices that are n't comfortable for them , and this might include you . The problem with the magic mouse , IMHO , is that it 's too small to really be useful as a gesture device because you 're gesturing with the same hand that you use to hold it . That 's bound to be awkward , which stresses your hand 's anatomy , and some people develop problems from that . Others might not notice any problems -- everybody is different . Solution : Change to a different mouse . If you must use gesture input , use a separate device for that . Apple offers the magic touchpad , which is a simpler and smaller version of the original <URL> series of devices which you can still buy used on eBay . And their laptops have multitouch trackpads too .
Apple software is only licensed to run on Apple products . Commands such as dscl , diskutil , defaults , etc. are specific to OS X . However you will find that outside of that , most of the CLI is very similar to other * nix flavors .
end question
start question
What does a vanilla jailbreak offer over a vanilla iOS firmware ?
My understanding is only Cydia . Everything that changes the phone via jailbreak comes in via Cydia . :)
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
Greenpois0n rc5 Has been released and can do an untethered jailbreak on 4.2.1 without older SHSH blobs . <URL>
If you setup <URL> and make sure that your router , firewall etc all are passing TCP port 548 , you 'll be able to connect from the DynDNS host/domain you create . AFP over the public Internet is n't a great solution for anything other than very minor , lightweight file transfers , however , and if you 're expecting more than a few concurrent users you should really consider a better protocol , such as WebDAV or ( S ) FTP , much less Dropbox , S3 , Box.com , etc. .
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
In the past - Apple had three methods to install : erase and install ( now deprecated ) archive + install + migrate upgrade install ( now deprecated ) Now , when you run the installer - it is always archive , install , migrate . SO the existing system folder is n't touched ( it gets archived ) and a new system folder and library are created on the drive . So some folders get erased entirely , some have modification scripts and most user folders do n't change . The user folders might get a light script run to clean known issues , but in general - the things in the user home folder are left alone . The system then reboots into the newly functioning system to run further installations and then kicks off the migration script . That script is responsible for the <URL> where it actually goes over each user folder and migrates all the apps , settings and checks for known incompatible software and packages so they can be disabled before any user logs in to the newly made system . The whole process usually takes 5 to 25 minutes for the system tasks and then the last user step can take a few moments or a few hours in my experience . Past an hour , it is usually hung and you might need to do an erase / migration from backup . <URL> The old system is then deleted unless the script detects a potential that it will be needed or the migration failed in some manner . I you wan to do an erase instal , you need to erase the drive using internet recovery , target disk mode or similar and then run an installer on a blank volume .
You say the MacBook is empty - does this not have any Mac OS on it ? To install from a USB or HDD you will need to open disk utility and from there select the restore option of the dvd with the hard drive or USB as destination , so if it does not have disc utility then no you ca n't , you will need to write a CD/DVD .
It turns out the external harddrive was a lemon . I tried with a new external hard drive and it worked fine . . initial backup finished in 2 hours and time machines seems to be working fine now .
Page 27 of the September 2015 <URL> states that there is not a firewall on iOS . On other platforms , firewall software is needed to protect open communication ports against intrusion . Because iOS achieves a reduced attack surface by limiting listening ports and removing unnecessary network utilities such as telnet , shells , or a web server , no additional firewall software is needed on iOS devices .
Yes , <URL> : iCloud Security iCloud secures your content by encrypting it when sent over the Internet , storing it in an encrypted format , and using secure tokens for authentication . Encrypting content that is sent over the Internet The following content is encrypted using SSL ( Secure Sockets Layer ) when sent over the Internet to or from iCloud : Photos in your Photo Stream Documents in the Cloud Backup data for your iOS device ...
A force restart is at the hardware level , not the software level . This means that even if iOS is completely frozen or in a different mode altogether ( such as <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> ) , you can still perform a force restart . It does nothing more than cut the power and turn the device back on again . This means that it does n't clear any caches or reset anything . A regular restart actually does more than a force restart .
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
Installing the jailbreak will not delete your apps , but it is generally recommended to backup your phone , do an " Erase All Content " , and install the jailbreak with only the OS on the phone . You can then sync your phone to get all of your apps back after the jailbreak is installed . You should probably allow around 2 GB for the jailbreak , possibly more if you plan on installing a lot of packages .
' Safe ' is a broad term . If you keep a backup though , there 's not much that can go wrong as you can always restore that backup . In addition , as there are no updates available for the 3Gs , you can safely restore to a jailbreakable version of iOS if anything goes wrong . As the last version of iOS that can be installed on the iPhone 3Gs is iOS 6.1.6 , this can be jailbroken using <URL> . Download it , then follow the instructions .
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
Your guess was correct . stands for <URL> Each file is compressed with a binary for the ARM architecture that can only be installed on iOS devices . If you change the extension to you will be able to unzip it and view the contents .
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
Consequences : increased personal responsibility to not install software or firmware that might prevent restoration to a supported configuration . increased personal responsibility for device instability or security vulnerabilities less software support from the vendor ( may be moot if you run beta software as there is less support for that as well ) potential delay if you ask for a hardware repair ( either within or without the warranty period ) if you do something that prevents a factory restore I suppose you might be out of luck , but I consider that further action ( or error ) past a jailbreak . reduced confidence that the app will be of use in debugging issues having to determine if an issue is in all devices or just in jailbroken devices ( such as frequent and intermittent issues with push notification service ) . I have had hardware exchanged by Apple when running beta software - the technician was able to tell it was clearly a hardware error and I was open with her when I presented the device for service . I was n't made to feel like I had done anything wrong . You could be denied service if you 're running software not designed by the manufacturer , I think a little common sense will let you know if it 's worth the risk . I see jailbreaking as taking down a guardrail . If you crash and the " authorities " rule you would have been safe had you left up the protection , you 've got less grounds to stand on . From the comments on another answer - a several people disagree with this ( and that 's better than fine , many viewpoints is a strength here ) On the plus side , if you know what you are doing , you might be able to patch known vulnerabilities better than or faster than Apple does . You might also gain knowledge you would not in the process of jailbreaking and dealing with the device while the guardrail is down . But to gloss over the difference between hardware support and software support or just stating " jailbreak = bad " over simplifies a complex issue in my eyes .
Several things could be problematic . the device - you can swap the certs on the devices to test that time settings can cause a cert to fail to be authenticated if it uses some sort of OCSP/CRL revocation check iOS being more picky than Mac and there being something technically wrong ( or just not what iOS wants even if it 's technically a valid cert ) provisioning profiles on one or both device that alters the trust policies or networking in a way that blocks some intermediate cert needed to validate the problem cert .
end question
start question
How to redirect mail from a main inbox to only your smart mailbox ?
The short answer is no . Smart mailboxes are basically filters . All mail is still in the original mailbox . Or as Apple puts it : A Smart Mailbox shows in one location messages that are stored in other mailboxes . For example , a Smart Mailbox might show all messages from a specific sender or with a certain type of attachment , regardless of the mailbox where they 're stored . <URL> . You could however create your own sort of smart mailboxes by using rules to move messages around based on certain characteristics . <URL> . Example of rules creating a Today folder : This moves all mail from today to a folder called today . A day later it will move that mail to a folder called archive ( archief in Dutch ) . This should give you an idea how to work with rules and folders .
<URL> works for me at OS X Snow Leopard : When an email is sent using PHP 's mail ( ) function , the email is piped through to the smtp_catcher.php script . The smtp_catcher.php script saves the email into a local folder as a . emlx file . The email is opened through Apple Mail and displayed on the screen ( woo ! ) .
You can do it with some AppleScript . This will create a new desktop every time you run it : You can save this as a Universal Service you can assign a globally-available shortcut key combination to call it . <URL> .
This uses Mail 's unified inbox to display the number of unread messages , thus , it 's equal to the number on Mail 's red icon badge .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : If you want to disable the shortcuts , edit the NSUserKeyEquivalents dictionaries directly : Then quit and reopen Chrome and Safari to apply the changes .
According to the <URL> : On the desktop , contacts are currently populated from emails that are synced with Mailbox . We do n't have a way to import your contacts from your email accounts at this time . We 're planning multiple contact improvements down the road , including full contact integration in the future . On a side note , you know about the ban on questions for software not publicly released , but you did n't search the relevant website for assistance before posting ? Tsk , tsk . ;)
Yes - tapping the sign out button disconnects FaceTime . The messages app uses a different account unless you set them all up using iCloud preference or a setup assistant screen to log into all icloud services with one Apple ID . As long as you signed out of the FaceTime portion of the settings app - more deliveries wo n't happen to that device . as long as you did n't sign in to the iCloud settings or anywhere else - you should be safe with no data of yours on that device other than for the moments you allowed it .
If you are in the US or Canada , you can call 1-800-MY-APPLE to order Snow Leopard directly from Apple telesales . It should only be $ 20 , a discount from the original $ 30 price . This will only work if you have an Intel Mac , of course .
Turn off Autocorrect per Application You can do this in the Applications Edit Menu under Spelling and Grammar and disable ' Check Spelling While Typing ' .
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
Applications like FaceTime access information stored by Address Book using Apple 's <URL> framework . Microsoft has it 's own way of storing contact information , and FaceTime wo n't read it . In order for FaceTime ( and other apps ) to access your contacts , you need to get the data into Apple 's storage container . Until Microsoft puts Outlook on speaking terms with iCloud , you may use SyncServices to <URL> . From within Outlook : On the Tools tab , click Sync Services . In the left pane , select the check box for Contacts . Under Select the accounts to sync , choose the account or accounts that you want to sync for the selected item type . Note The On My Computer account includes all Outlook items that are not synchronized with a Microsoft Exchange account . On the Outlook folder to add new items to pop-up menu , choose the location in Outlook where you want new items to be saved . " New " items are those that are added first in a different application or device , and then synced to Outlook . Close the Sync Services dialog box , and then on the confirmation message , click OK . Be certain Outlook is fully up-to-date because there were <URL> with syncing using earlier versions under OS 10.7 Lion .
From <URL> How to delete all photos from iPhone The following method is without a doubt the fastest and most efficient way to mass delete photos from your Camera Roll . You can choose to delete one or hundreds of photos at once , and get the job done in less time that it takes to say it . 1 ) Plug your iPhone in your Mac . Launch the application called Image Capture . You might not have heard of it before , but it comes with all Macs . It should be somewhere in your Applications folder . Note to Windows users : I do not have a Windows machine to test this on , but if my memory is correct , you can achieve the same thing by going to " My Computer " and look for your iPhone , which should appear as cameras normally do on PC . Do n't quote me on this though . Hopefully , some commenters that have a Windows PC will be able to give us more details about that . 2 ) Make sure your iPhone or iPad is selected from the " Devices " list in the left navigation bar . 3 ) Select as many photos as you want to delete . If you want to delete all of them in one scoop , hit the " Command + A " keys on your keyboard to select all photos . 4 ) Click on the red delete icon at the bottom of the screen . 5 ) You will get one last chance to stop the mass removal of your pictures . Image Capture will ask you if you 're sure you want to delete the selected items permanently . Click Delete . All the photos will be wiped from your iPhone or iPad .
You 're exactly right . Here 's how to lock the file that controls the icon : <URL> Navigate to your folder . There will be a file called inside it . Go to the Get Info window for that file and check the Locked checkbox . Try to change the icon . You ca n't . Ta-da .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
Apple does not allow developers to interact with the internal NFC chip at this moment . Currently the only extendable Apple SDK for this type of system is Wallet ( formerly PassBook ) . If your local transport station has an option to scan barcodes you can use third party tools to add your transportation pass barcode to Wallet .
As described in <URL> to prevent the Mac from using the internal monitor the following command need to be run then restart .
Quit Mail , edit the . mailsignature file with a text editor changing the HTML to whatever you like then right click the file in Finder and select " Get Info " then tick the " Locked " checkbox . This prevents Mail from resetting the file to the original version and it uses your version .
Under Mail / Preferences / Accounts and selecting your account and then Advanced , you 'll find an option to Keep copies of message for offline viewing . Just choose All messages and their attachments .
In Mail click the button Show which is in the top left of the application window : After step one you can see all your inboxes and folders . You can export any inbox or folder via the right-click menu dialog .
end question
start question
How does the iPhone Auto Focus work ?
Autofocus on the iPhone is done via an electrical motor , moving the front lens backward and forward , and software that captures and analyses the image for best sharpness , which usually is the " sweet " spot . Recent versions of iOS probably offload the analysis to the <URL> available since the Apple A5 chip .
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
Because a one-size-fits-all auto-brightness setting is going to be unpleasant for a large number of users , either because the automatically-selected levels are either too difficult to see , too bright , or eat too much battery . The automatic setting is based on the threshold you set specifically so that the device can " figure out " ideal settings within a range that you can tolerate . More to the point , I have a question for you . Is there a point on the auto-brightness slider that you 're comfortable with ? If not , that should be all the proof you need that the slider is necessary ! If there is a setting that looks ideal all the time , you 've got nothing to complain about - the system works for you .
it looks like with the updated podcast app ( 1.1 ) you can autodownload podcasts when you are in WIKI area
You are correct . The video will be compressed to a smaller size before sending out . EDIT : If you want to try to send uncompressed video , you can try the trick from this guy , <URL> In the Camera Roll or Photos app , press and hold on the photo . A menu should pop up with Copy as an option . If you want multiple photos , you can hit the Share button the toolbar and select all the photos you want and then hit Copy . Either way , you 'll end up with the full-quality photo in your clipboard , which you can then paste into an email .
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
No He will be stuck on IOS 4 most popular apps have support for ios5 or higher I have a 3g 16gb too old espically for a newbie . Get the 3GS unlocked version if you want to be cheap / most bang for bucks . He wil be stuck on EDGE until Tmobile finishes adding 3g Support for unlocked iphones . They have done a few cities google which ones 16/32gb 3GS is the best in my opinion . Favcetime and stuff is impossible over 3g unless you can find a ip4 off contract for sub 200 dollars then get tyhat i used 4 different iphones on tmobile 2g 3g 3gs ip4 been with them since 2001
They do n't . The native resolution of even the original iPhone screen was high enough that there would be little added benefit . Also note that each orientation of the screen would require a different set of subpixel rendering calculations . So it would also be more complicated to implement . Combined , there 's no advantage to use subpixel rendering on an iOS device .
Even if LTE does n't work where you are traveling , the <URL> will work on the following 2G/3G/4G network frequencies . UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 25 , 26 , 28 , 29 ) Your phone is unlocked , so any carrier 's SIM card will work and you can connect to WiFi to download the latest carrier settings that will properly configure the radio for all deployed cell towers and frequencies that the handset can communicate with . So , your question basically boils down to picking a price point and picking a specific carrier with coverage where you actually will be traveling . The good news is you can get a cheap SIM or two and then pick the one that works best to reload data and minutes once you know more about the conditions on the ground when you arrive . My experience is the specifications are very conservative and you end up getting better/faster/more LTE coverage than is advertised as every carrier that can support iPhones gets more revenue from travelers even if the handsets in that country are sold primarily the device that speaks all the frequencies of the A1549 as well as it 's own . I would love to be in on the marketing and engineering talks that led up to choosing models , but can only guess being on the outside of Apple .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
Moving the message to the Spam folder will mark it as spam on the gmail server as well as moving it to the spam folder .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
Double tap on the photo to make it full screen . Alternatively , you can see toward the end of the commercial , a simple swipe to the left or the right brings up subsequent photos full screen without the overlay of controls on the top or bottom .
When I upgraded from 3 to 4 , after I setup the iPhone 4 to sync with my computer , I took the iPhone 3 and used the reset-erase function on the iPhone and then when I connected it to my iTunes , I gave it a new name ( so I could setup different sync options ) . I use it as an extra ipod-like device for the kids to play with or watch movies on when we are traveling . Note : the iPhone 4 has a different sized SIM card than the iPhone 3 so you wo n't be just swapping them . I had to go to the AT&amp;T store to affect the move from my iPhone 3 to iPhone 4 . The iPhone 3 just has an inactive SIM card in it . I did n't have to Jailbreak it to keep using it . And you can still use it with XCode Organizer to install applications that you are developing for testing purposes .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
Aw crud , there are all sorts of " move focus to " commands in the Navigate menu that I somehow missed earlier ... The combo for " Move Focus to Editor ... " is Cmd-J , for example .
The reason for moving your device in a figure eight is to help it calibrate itself against magnetic interference . By moving it slightly its able to detect the differences and return a more accurate reading . You can read the Apple knowledge base article <URL>
To enable a retina rendered Eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist using your favorite text editor . Just above Place this : Then , make a copy of the app so that OSX will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
end question
start question
How to update PHP syntax file for vim ?
Solved myself , here are the steps : - turn up is this file as backup download latest php vim file from <URL> untar the tarball copy the php.vim to / usr/share/vim / vim73/syntax/php . vim
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
Both depend upon the same PrivateFramework . Specifically is part of the MobileDevice.framework which communicates to iOS devices . When an iTunes update includes an update to , then Xcode can be flagged to prevent it from interacting with the subsystem while the update is being performed .
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
This is addressed several times on the Apple Forums . It is a common problem . I will list a few of the answers that have worked for others . Before starting , do the obligatory iPad reboot . 1 ) From the iPad desktop click the stalled app . It will either restart the update process or report the " update failed " . If it fails you will then be able to restart the update from within iPads App updater . 2 ) If you have a desktop Mac , from iTunes go to menu Store > Check for Available Downloads . This should download the updated App to your iTunes . Then re-sync with your iPad . 3 ) Delete the app from your iPad then reinstall . I found that option 1 worked flawlessly for me .
A tool that might just help you is <URL> . With it , you can read the mouse position using the command , move the mouse using the command , and click using the command . This is a bit of a hack , really , but regarding the multi-monitor support , you can use <URL> , where you can programmatically call Cliclick with the coordinates of the mouse in a different monitor . I 'm sure there are other alternatives , though . I also used Slate to bind the other first calls to Cliclick . The " mouse mode " is a bit tougher . In Slate you can create " modal hotkeys " pressing two hotkeys in succession ( like ^ W in Vim ) , but no support for whole modes . You could , however , dynamically edit the binding file to contain " normal mode " or " mouse mode " bindings each time you change the mode . I did something similar yesterday , so hope this helps . :)
That looks like a shell script that is missing the shebang at the top of the file . It could be that it is intended to be copied into an existing script to provide OS X-specific functionality so the main script can be portable ( I 'd expect there to be dotfiles for other operating systems , as well . ) On the other hand , it could be intended as a file of ideas and you pick the ones you want and paste them into your or .
As Rabarberski says , can be used to find any process that has the file open . Note that you need to run the program as root , i.e. , using , and that you can give the pathname to the file you 're interested in as an argument , so there is no need for the invocation in the hint that Rabarberski points to . Also , if a process holds a lock on the file , you 're supposed to be able to see that from the FD column in the output . See the manual page for the details . ( When I run on my machine , I see no locked files , so I wo n't guarantee that this works right on the Mac . is after all a generic unix program , and conceivably some features do n't work on OSX . ) You can not unlock a file without killing the process that holds the lock . But you can remove it with from the command line .
This has now happened a couple of more times . I 've been able to resolve this the last couple of times by tapping the app back on the main screen ( ie not in the app store ) . The label below it changes to ' Waiting ' . Then tapping it again it changes the label to ' Loading ' or ' Installing ' and the update finally completes . I can then update other apps . Otherwise the only other solution is to delete and reinstall the app .
The size is normally the size of the full Application . What I do is I open the application info screen and look at the file size . Remember , App Store updates are full versions of the file being downloaded , and the existing one replaced . There is unfortunately now why to do this quickly , you have to check each application individually from the update screen by tapping on it 's icon . As pointed out by @cksum , when finding the App on the iPhone , scroll to the bottom and it will show the size .
Great page , though I did n't find the PHP versions there . Nevertheless , OS X 10.9 came with PHP 5.4 :)
Checkout XTrafinder - google for it and download it from the source of your choice ... It can be found <URL> . From the website : XtraFinder add Tabs and features to Mac Finder . • Tabs . • Dual Panel &amp; Dual Window . • Arrange folders on top . • Cut &amp; Paste . • Global hotkeys . • " Copy Path " , " Show Hidden Items " , " Hide Desktop " , " Refresh " , " New File " , " Copy to " , " Move to " , " New Terminal Here " , " Make Symbolic Link " , " Contents " , " Select ... " , ... . • Light text on dark background . • Colorful icons in Sidebar . The nice thing really is that it extends finders usability .
A support request was filed and Bare Bones responded quickly . TextWrangler sets the file type ( com.apple.FinderInfo ; file icon ) when it determines that the file name can not be used to determine that it is a text file . The exact determination here is not too important ; as I found , hence I would assume that source code files would fall into this category . The text encoding is a standard attribute and is set to indicate the file 's character encoding . To disable the writing of these extended file attributes , the following command is used ; The command itself is documented in the TextWrangler help files ; but not how it relates to the character encoding and file associations . To find and clear the attributes of the modified file ( s ) , you can use the following standard commands ;
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
You want to remove " write permission " from the file , so it can not be written to . If you block MobileMe from writing to it , you will also be blocking the application from writing to it , which could cause problems . Via the command line : From the Finder , do CMD+I ( Get Info ) , and under " Sharing &amp; Permissions " at the bottom , set it to read only . If you need to write to the file ( perhaps for the application to work properly ) , you can temporarily make it write-able , or approach this with a different solution . For example , you could use DropBox , link the file to DropBox from all your Snow Leopard computers , and just not link the file on the Lion computer .
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
I do n't think Snow Leopard did that by default , you most likely had a QuickLook plugin installed , such as <URL> or <URL> . You can simply install this again in Lion .
Spoke to the Apple Geniuses today . They said it was n't possible . Best I could come up with was to group the files by type .
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
Edit Find the line that says and uncomment it by editing out the # at the beginning of the line . ( Then save the file , obviously . ) Go to Terminal and type at the console :
end question
start question
Time estimate to location in Today 's view ?
I presume you are referring to the following section : To enable , you need to go to Settings → Privacy → Location Services → System Services and turn Frequent Locations on . Then go to Settings → Notification Center and turn Next Destination on .
Cell network search : when in presence of two or more network antennae , probably it register which one is better where ( so it has to know where ) , in order to automatically connect to it the next time you '' ll be in the same place . Diagnostics &amp; Usage : possibly related to the one above , about battery life draining with different antennae Traffic : I guess this one is to collect data for a yet to be announced product ( see the Apple <URL> regarding this .
There is a tool that does that called <URL> . It will show the current load and Frequency
You can either install Windows as a virtual machine ( eg . VMWare Fusion or Parallels Desktop ) or on a Bootcamp partition . Note that this requires a Windows license and media for installing . In Windows you can then install IETester for example . There are some online services that will make screenshots for you in said browsers like Adobe Browserlab ( https://browserlab.adobe.com/ ) . Though that might not be ideal when wanting to quickly debug some problems . There are even services where you connect to a remote VNC instance running a selected Windows configuration like <URL> . But those generally do not come free to my knowledge . < = browsercam.com will be shut down FEB 1 , 2013 < = <URL>
For location-based reminders , you only need to have the GPS turned on . Keeping wifi on helps with locations because it allows the device to pin-point where you 're located . Wifi is not required , however . Bluetooth is not required for location reminders unless you 're using iBeacons . If you 're using iBeacons then bluetooth is required .
It looks like <URL> . Is OS X the backups seems to be stored in the following location ... ... but I do n't think you can change that location .
This is one of those things that really makes me wonder " If it 's not broken why fix it ? " . Other than switching to another application that might give you back the lost functionality , I only have one suggestion at the moment . This is how I 've been able to use Preview ( 5.5 ) and still get two page ( side by side ) continuous scrolling : Open up your pdf , document , etc. in Preview.app File > Print or ⌘ P In the Print Dialog Box click Preview > Change to Layout [ 2 pages ] Lastly , click PDF > Open PDF in Preview . You should now see your document layout as two pages and you can scroll continuously . I realize it 's far from ideal , although it is a way to still use Preview exclusively , yet still have similar functionality as before . I hope they will fix it ; I should n't have to be thinking of ways like this to use it like it could have been . ;-)
Yes , apps can be In Review for a number of days , regardless of whether it is a TestFlight app . For what it 's worth , I currently have an app with a status of In Review which has been in this state for over 7 days ( excluding Waiting for Review time ) .
Maybe in your Home folder ? It 's the default folder the terminal points to . Try to open it through the Go menu in the finder .
The hard way : Wipe the backup drive . Set up Time Machine again to backup to this drive . Wait for the backup to complete - and find a Mavericks recovery partition on it .
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
Your location and time zone settings are linked . You have to choose a location to change your time zone . This does n't affect your location in your documents or Autofill , as those use the data from your Contact Card .
A new iPad version of Chrome has this feature where you can type chrome : / / history into the search field / address bar to retrieve history . Currently the iOS version of Google Chrome is 28.0.1500.16 so presumably older versions of the app do not have any way to get history , but newer versions do .
Since you mentioned Firesheep , let me put in a plug for <URL> : Sheepsafe was built to automate the task of switching your network configuration to use a SOCKS proxy whenever you join an untrusted network . Sheepsafe works by keeping a configuration of known safe wireless networks . When you join an untrusted network , Sheepsafe switches to a network location that has a SOCKS proxy configured and starts a SOCKS proxy by SSH ' ing into a remote server , thus protecting your browsing traffic from FireSheep and other snoopers on the local network . When you switch back to a safe network , Sheepsafe switches back to the default , trusted location and shuts down the SOCKS proxy .
Have you tried <URL> ? It 's an app that displays the current iTunes song lyrics on the desktop . It does display a dock icon . You can also adjust font , size , position , color , shadow , etc. . There are no individual lyric files that are stored on your computer . The lyric information is embedded in the id3 tag of each song file . There is an app called <URL> that will batch extract song lyrics into individual text files .
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
No , there is no way to do this . Also , wifi is only searched for when you actually go to use your phone . It wo n't search for wifi networks constantly while the phone is in your pocket . Your iPhone is very good at managing its own battery usage . Checking what SSIDs exist is very battery efficient . Lastly , you can turn off that annoying prompt that comes up whenever networks are discovered . It 'll still automatically connect to wifi networks that you trust , but that dialog will never appear .
If you normally sort your overall library by album , you can right click on the currently playing song in a playlist and select Show In Playlist - > Music . This will take you directly to that song in your music library .
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
In 4.2 at least , you can tap on the bubble to see the email address , then press and hold on the email address . A copy option will appear above it .
end question
start question
What applications enable AirPlay mirroring for Mac ?
With the new OSX Mountain Lion you will be able to airplay from the Mac to an Apple TV . <URL>
According to the <URL> : On the desktop , contacts are currently populated from emails that are synced with Mailbox . We do n't have a way to import your contacts from your email accounts at this time . We 're planning multiple contact improvements down the road , including full contact integration in the future . On a side note , you know about the ban on questions for software not publicly released , but you did n't search the relevant website for assistance before posting ? Tsk , tsk . ;)
Yes , it will work as long as both the MacBook Air and the Denon receiver are on the same network segment . Your Air will need either the USB or Thunderbolt adapter to connect to ethernet ( the latter provides Gigabit speed as well as supports jumbo packets ) directly . You can have many iOS devices and the Air also connect over a wireless bridge and they will see the receiver that is connected via ethernet to the main network switch .
This was driving me crazy as well . Go to System Preferences - > Mission Control and make sure that ' Displays have separate Spaces ' is checked . You 'll have to log out and log back in for the change to take affect . That fixed it for me .
Depending on what you are looking for with HTML5 , one app that helps with creation is <URL> . This looks mostly like it would help with animations ( like you may have previously with Flash ) , but other HTML features are there too .
Check out SwitchUp . <URL> It used to be called rooSwitch and it was awesome for managing app prefs and data files . Now it 's better and more awesome .
It depends on how you have defined the shortcut keys . The files responsible for storing these preferences are in the usual place : ~ / Library/Preferences You could simply move the files that store the preferences over to the new Mac : com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist com.apple.universalaccess.plist com.apple.iWork.Keynote.plist com.apple.iWork.Pages.plist If you were good at parsing JSON or XML , you could do the export to a text file as well using <URL> .
If you 're located outside the US , iTunes Match is unavailable for the time being , due to content licensing deals . When iTunes Match was first announced I believe Apple stated they would be working on bringing it to more countries , but these negotiations always take some time . Hard to give a definite timeframe unless Apple announces something .
To date , there are no 3rd party software implementations of AirPlay . The spec itself is fully patented ( though most of these patents relate to the hardware aspects of the system ) and is essentially a proprietary standard unique to Apple ( though several hardware vendors have announced hardware that will use the standard - XtremeMac , Denon ) . The current analysis of the protocol itself seems to indicate that it is a further evolution of the previous AirTunes protocol ( which itself was built on top of Bonjour ) , so you are likely to see software implementations appear after developers have had more time to experiment with the protocol .
iMac ( Mid 2011 or newer ) Mac mini ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Early 2011 or newer ) Regular Airplay is still supported on all Macs running Mountain Lion .
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
Per the instructions on the screen , you have to log out and back in when enabling or disabling HiDPI mode for the changes to take effect :
Both <URL> and <URL> allow your Mac to act as an Airplay receiver for audio or video . I 'm not aware of an app that specializes in audio only Airplay , but either of those should do what you need .
There is no command line access for the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client . But the free and most excellent <URL> does handle links which would let you call it from a launcher of your choice or even via on the command line . The <URL> lays out how you can use URL encoded parameters to open full-configured RDP sessions . rdp : / / URL syntax CoRD handles rdp : / / URLs , which you can use from many places inside OS X. Unfortunately , there is no way to extend Finder 's " Connect to Server " dialog , which supports launching VNC URLs , so we ca n't launch CoRD from there . If Apple changes this ( or if anybody is aware of a way to extend it ) we would love to hear about it . If you want to use urls with existing saved servers , you can ( as of 0.5.3 ) ! Just use the label in place of a hostname : New Servers From a shell ( using Terminal ) : Additional parameters can be used to start a fully-configured session via the URL : The following parameters can be set for the session via a query string ( as of 0.5.2 ) : Example Note : When using ampersands ( &amp; ) from the command line , they have to be escaped with a backslash ( ) . Colons ( :) can be used in place of ampersands for the same effect , without needing to be escaped . Passwords with any special characters in them , @ , : , &amp; , etc need to be encoded according to the <URL> Command Line Use CoRD supports the following command line options : - host - port - u - d - p - a [ 8 | 16 | 24 | 32 ] set screen depth - width set screen resolution width - height set screen resolution height Example Caveats Launching CoRD from the command line this way causes a fresh instance of CoRD to be opened . One symptom of this is multiple Dock icons . This overrides or decreases the effectiveness of many of CoRD strong points , including unified sessions , etc. . For that reason , we recommend using the open command , and rdp : / / URLs to launch sessions .
So far the only way I 've found to do this is to manually choose the alert style for the app in Notification Center . The default is banner , so enabling push notifications requires setting the alert style to banner , turn on badging , sounds and enable in notification center , and similarly disabling all these ( banner style to none ) to disable . I really wish there were a single on/off setting for this but there does n't appear to be . Update : I got my wish . As of iOS 8 I believe there is now a single on/off switch to enable notifications for an app . This resides in the Settings - > Notifications area under the specific app .
A little off-topic , but I hardly ever launch Applications from the Finder . They are either in the Dock , or you can get to them with Spotlight ( or your favorite alternative app launcher ) .
As there are no emulation / simulation engines that I 've seen that work well enough to run tutorials in anything resembling a smooth manner , your least expensive option would be to get a cheap secondhand iPad and then use AirPlay emulation software on the PC to capture the screen and make your videos . You could even save money by taking static screen captures and then animating them on the PC . The only simulator that even comes close to what you need runs on OS X and is part of Xcode delivered from Apple . You could probably virtualize that , but the cost there is more than buying cheap used iOS hardware . Even an iPod touch is often good enough for walk through videos on basic settings for corporate users .
You ca n't enable VoiceOver for just one app , but you can easily turn VoiceOver on and off easily . Method 1 ( Siri ) : Just launch Siri ( by pressing and holding the home button ) , and say " Turn on Voice Over " , and and Siri will reply ( no reading necessary ) . You can also turn Voice Over off , by saying " Turn of Voice Over " when you leave the app . <URL> Method 2 ( Acessibility Shortcut ) : Go to Settings > General > Accessibility > Accessibility Shortcut and tap " VoiceOver " . Now whenever you triple-click the home button , it will enable voice over , and when you triple click it again , it will disable VoiceOver . <URL>
You do n't say how the server mac is sharing the HFS + formatted drive . I would suspect it is AFP in which case the NAS drive format is largely irrelevant . The NAS will store files on it 's storage in whatever format is best for the OS of the NAS , and expose those files through network shares in a single or a variety of formats . The client machines mount the shares and should be unaware of the underlying storage ( just as they will be unaware that it will likely be a RAID configuration of some sort ) Synology , QNAP , Netgear , Drobo and many many others all adopt this approach . The major factor is getting a NAS supplier who fully supports AFP and does not just see it as an afterthought to be tagged on with a bog standard install of the AFP packages which may be out of date or have not been tested or tuned . The introduction of Lion saw a number of NAS devices with difficulties sharing AFP until they could be patched . Of course during this period the users could have switched to using CIFS shares and keep going .
With the new OSX Mountain Lion you will be able to airplay from the Mac to an Apple TV . <URL>
end question
start question
Are there general or specific iOS6 performance issues on iPhone 4 ?
I have been running iOS 6 since Friday night ( I ran the Golden Master that became release ) on my iPhone 4 . Safari feels snappier ( and show improvement on SunSpider benchmarks ) . I have not noticed any degradation like the 3G iOS 4 craziness that apple gave us ( I went through that as well ) . I am very happy and using it ( everyday ) and it feels a bit better in most things than 5 .
I have been running iOS 6 since Friday night ( I ran the Golden Master that became release ) on my iPhone 4 . Safari feels snappier ( and show improvement on SunSpider benchmarks ) . I have not noticed any degradation like the 3G iOS 4 craziness that apple gave us ( I went through that as well ) . I am very happy and using it ( everyday ) and it feels a bit better in most things than 5 .
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
It is almost certain that you have a hardware problem , something wrong with the actual touchscreen . Since the iPhone 4 is less than a year old it 's still under warranty , Apple will fix it for free . If you have n't done so already you can try a complete restore of your iPhone , erasing everything and returning it to it 's brand new state ( after backing it up ) . Odds are not good that this will fix it , but it 's worth a shot , especially if having Apple repair it is a hassle . Apple explains how to back it up and restore it here : <URL>
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
What about Cobook ? <URL> There 's a mac app and an iPhone app AND it 's free !
There are applications that do this if you have jailbroken your iPhone . Without jailbreaking however there is n't a way to block a single or specific incoming number . I 've known people that have requested their provider to block a certain number and without a very good ( usually legal ) reason , they wo n't do it . The best thing you can do is record 30 seconds of silence in garage band and then use that as a ringtone for that specific number . Then at least the phone wo n't alert you .
I had the exact same issue . Basically , this happens only if you enable the checkbox " Save Settings " at the username/password prompt in Junos Pulse . If you do not enable this checkbox , it should not freeze at the next connection attempt . Pulsesecure have released the software version 5.1 R5 .1 build 61437 , where this issue has been fixed ( I tested it today and it is working fine ) . I hope this helps .
<URL> is a free Finder alternative , if that type of application suites you . ( Dual-pane Norton Commander like ) .
There are a number of possible pitfalls to having an encrypted home folder ; most of them are more-or-less intrinsic to the idea , so they 're not likely to go away ... ever . UPDATE : Lion 's FileVault 2 uses full-volume encryption rather than just home-directory , so it actually does make some of these issues go away and changes several others . I 've added notes in [ ] below . Note that upgrading to Lion does not automatically convert to FV2 ; you must first turn off " Legacy FileVault " encryption for accounts using the old system , then turn on VF2 to reencrypt . Speed : obviously , the computer has to decrypt the data to read it from disk , and encrypt it before reading from disk , which 'll slow down disk access . This usually is n't a big deal unless you 're doing something like video editing . There 's also a delay at logout as it recovers space in the image ( and maybe also backs it up ; see below ) . [ VF2 removes the logout delay , and can use hardware AES instructions ( on CPUs that support them ) to minimize the general slowdown . ] Too much security : the good thing about FileVault is that nobody can get at your data without your login password ( of the computer 's master password ) . The bad thing is that if you forget your password ( and do n't remember/haven ' t set a master password ) , you ca n't get at your data either . The recommended procedure is to set a master password ( before enabling FileVault ) , write it down , and store the written copy someplace secure ( e.g. sealed envelope in a safe deposit box ) . [ VF2 creates a recovery key , which functions very similarly to the old master key . There 's also an option to have Apple store the recovery key for you , although I 'd recommend using that in addition to ( not instead of ) storing the key yourself . ] File non-sharing : FileVault security prevents you from sharing files out of your home folder . Your Public folder , normally accessible by other users on the computer ( and if you have file sharing turned on , other computers on the network ) is locked in the FileVault and available only to you . [ FV2 removes this limitation . ] Risk of data corruption : normally , if your computer crashes there 's a possibility that whatever files you had open could get corrupted ; with FileVault , your entire home folder is contained in a disk image , and if that gets corrupted you could lose everything . IIRC both OS X v10 .3.0 and 10.4.0 shipped with bugs that could corrupt the types of images used by FileVault ( fixed in 10.3.1 and 10.4.1 , but still ... ) . So backup is very important if you have data you do n't want to lose . [ FV2 does not have the image corruption issue , but is still vulnerable to normal volume corruption ; it will also limit your options for data recovery somewhat , as not all volume repair/recovery tools support encrypted volumes ( yet ) . ] Speaking of which : Backup time : backing up the FileVault image file is generally only possible when you 're logged out . External volumes ( like backup drives ) get dismounted when nobody 's logged in , creating a bit of a catch-22 for many backup systems . Time Machine gets around this by doing a backup as you log out ( after the image becomes accessible , but before the backup drive gets dismounted ) , so make sure you log out with the backup drive attached from time to time . Other backup systems ... who knows . In any case , test to make sure you 're actually getting a useable backup . [ FV2 removes this limitation . Note that Time Machine under Lion supports encrypting the backup volume , in which case it can only back up when the backup volume is mounted and decrypted . ] Backup capacity : backup systems generally save space by only backing up files that 've changed since the last backup . With your files hidden in a disk image , this is n't really possible . The image is stored as a series of " band " files ( in " sparse bundle format " ) , so the backup system only needs to store the bands that changed , but since these do n't neatly correspond to specific files in your home folder , it 's still going to use more space than if it could back up the files directly . [ FV2 removes this limitation . ] Backup recovery : since the files you 're likely to want to recover from a backup are hidden inside the encrypted image , they 're a lot less convenient to recover from backup . When using Time Machine , its slick view-through-time interface does n't work with FileVault-protected files , you have to find the backup of the image , mount it , and recover the file ( s ) you want by hand . Similarly , if you want to recover a file from an online backup , you 're likely to have to recover the entire image so you can mount it and pull out the file ( s ) you want . [ FV2 removes this limitation . ] One more note : to keep people from bypassing FileVault , make sure you have secure ( encrypted ) virtual memory enabled ( in System Preferences - > Security pane - > General tab ) , and either log out consistently ( yeah , right ) or require a password immediately after sleep or screen saver ( same place ) and set the screen saver to run autom
The only way I know how to do it is in iCal ( providing you have a Mac ) . Ctrl + click on the Calendar along the left side of the screen >> Get Info >> Click the color selector on the right to change the color . Here 's a screenshot
<URL> Touchpose is a very simple Cydia tweak that will show finger positions on screen . Requirements : firmware ( > = 4.0 ) , mobilesubstrate , libactivator , preferenceloader
It does drain your battery ; whether it 's worth it for you to turn it off is up to you and how long your battery last . Also something worth noting is that by leaving it on and walking around other people can see your hotspot and might try to connect . Even if they 're unsuccessful it will drain your battery even faster . If they are successful who knows what they might do while connected . In general though , any app on your phone that sends/receive data is going to drain your battery more than an app that does n't .
Many have tried to do some benchmarking see e.g. . <URL> <URL> <URL> and looks like differences are small . One remarkable exception is FileVault 2 <URL> In my ( not very extensive ) experience with Lion I noted no difference ( but Lion is definitely more buggy and less dependable than Snow Leopard )
I charge my iPhone 4S overnight each night , but I could probably get through multiple days if I was careful . Currently , I 'm not careful about battery life . I listen to podcasts on the train to work , make calls , surf the Internet on 3G and WiFi , and listen to streaming radio on WiFi pretty much all day at work . With all that , I get ~ 16 hours of battery life , which is much better than either my old 4th gen iPod touch or my Palm Prē . Batteries can vary by model ; the people who wrote the articles you mention probably just got crappy batteries . They should take their iPhones in to an Apple Store and Apple 'll probably replace them , as the batteries are clearly defective .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
You can read about the differences <URL> About the adapter You gave in the link , a reviewer wrote : If you 're looking for an adapter to charge your 30 pin device * with a lightning cable , then you will not be disappointed . If you wishing to connect your 30 pin device * for sync to your computer * , then you will also not be disappointed for at least some 30 pin devices * . Also many complain that the device they got does not work , so You should look for a more reliable one . There is a post about this that the adapter stopped working after a new software version : <URL> You should consider buying an USB to 30 pin or a more reliable 8 to 30 pin adapter like <URL> ( note that this only allows you to charge the phone . No data transfer )
Do Not Disturb can do that , no 3rd party app needed . You might have to juggle a new contacts group , because it only allows to receive calls from one group at a time , or favourites - so to exclude ' work ' you might need to create a new group containing ' everyone else ' <URL> You can also toggle it manually from the Lock Screen <URL>
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
The iPhone 4S is the same in every country . The only notable change is the default language configured on the device . And firmware/software locks for carrier or country locked phones . The important difference is that apparently the unlocked iPhone 4S in the US will not be supposed to work on CDMA networks ( rumor ) for undisclosed reasons . It is probably due to the primitive way CDMA phones are activated by CDMA carriers . Obviously the packaging changes ( depending on the region ) . Also the power brick is different depending on the country for example in Europe except British territories the power plug uses Type C plugs while UK uses Type B and the US have Type A plugs . All the iPhone 4S will " supposedly " have she same internals and the same firmwares . There are no other differences while the iPhone 4 has different firmwares for CDMA and GSM as there have been no variants for the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS models which were the same across the globe . BUT beware of the term unlocked . It does n't mean the phone is not SIM-locked . In some countries ( I have in mind the case of the iPhone 3G in Canada ) unlocked can mean not locked for the country carriers . Which means it is regionally SIM-locked , if you try to use it with any of the countries ' carriers it will work , but if you try to use it with a SIM from another country or an international SIM , it will be locked .
end question
start question
Stop blue dots from appearing next to updated apps ?
There currently is no way for you to disable this as of < = iOS8 and within the boundaries of factory OS . This is a visual aide for those people that have automatic updates enabled . You can look into jailbreaking your device if it is worth that much to you
This is currently not possible . Google Chrome uses its own code for displaying notifications which Keyboard Maestro does n't seem to be able to interact with . There appears to be no AppleScript for even detecting notifications and Google Chrome seems to refuse to provide the content of the message to Keyboard Maestro for any sort of macro . Also , sending Chrome notifications to Growl also does n't help since Growl still ca n't show notifications on multiple displays : <URL>
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
You did n't mention what keyboard , but on the Apple keyboard : F7 - restart current song F8 - pause/play F9 - skip forward Note that you need to have the box unchecked in OSX that says use function keys as normal . In the event you use your function keys for something , I 've also successfully created trigger hotkey combos in Quicksilver . You can also probably just remap them in keyboard preferences .
optionenter ( shiftenter on Windows ) will add the selected song to the Up Next list ( in iTunes 11.0 , this does not work in album view , but does in all other views ) . However , iTunes will always ask you if you want to clear the previous songs from the list , so an extra keystroke is needed . There are one or two drawbacks to this method , firstly : It defaults to clear the previous songs so a simple enter will not suffice and a P keystroke is needed to add the song while keeping the existing list . Secondly : In addition the added song will default to the top of the ' Up Next ' playlist as oppose to when you click to add a song ( in this instance the added song will default to the bottom of the list ) . I 'm only running Windows so I ca n't say the same ( or similar ) is true for Macs .
It is loaded by default by . If you run that will disable it for your user . To turn it back on
Open the image that you would like to be the folder icon in Preview . Press ⌘ cmd + A to select the entire image and press ⌘ cmd + C to copy it . Get Info ( ⌘ cmd + I ) on the folder . Click the folder icon on the top-left and press ⌘ cmd + V to paste in the icon . To revert back to the default blue folder ... Get Info on the folder . Click your icon in the top-left . Press ⌘ cmd + X . The folder icon is stored in the folder , as a hidden file . You can also remove the folder icon using the following Terminal command inside the folder with the icon that you wish to remove :
<URL> is a free alternative . It 's no longer supported , but it continues to work just fine .
Try this <URL> or Rename eject.menu in / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu Extras / to something else " eject.menu.bak " restart mac and then rename the file back to original . Not sure if it works but trying doesnt hurt anyone .
From testing , it seems you ca n't break that link without having to re-download . Since the change requires you to synchronize the phone , you will need to re-download the files from the phone once you 've un-ticked the box , since the synchronize does remove the applications completely . Unfortunately the answer to your question is right now there is n't a default way , but I suspect it will become possible in future iTunes versions . I have looked for possible hacks to do this and have yet to find one that does n't require jail breaking to copy the files back .
The current non-beta version of Xcode , 4.3.3 for Lion , works fine on a retina device but certain UI elements are not retina-enabled . Most notably the little " LCD " screen that sits in the top middle of the toolbar , it looks quite blurry on a retina MBP . Also the Play/Stop buttons , and many other UI elements . However the text used to render your code is crisp .
<URL> works for testing multitouch , so you can try different areas of the screen by holding one finger in a place you know works and move the other elsewhere . If the line breaks , then the second finger is in a location that does n't work . You can test it full screen ( without the Safari UI but the status bar is still present ) by adding it to the home screen .
As the GMail app is a third party app not built by Apple , it is not allowed to run in the background to check for mails . So closing the app stops it from checking for mails . However , it probably will still get notifications about new mails pushed from Google 's server . But this notification is not initiated from your phone . You can switch off notifications for the gmail app in the iPhones settings.app under notifications .
The application ( or a third-party ) has to provide support for Automator . It 's not automatic .
4.2.2 has , due to customer feedback , added a setting under You and Settings ( Gears icon ) to turn off the Week in Review and all notifications that fall outside the normal notifications . In detail , click the blue ' In ' icon in top left corner of screen , then the ' You ' pane , then the gear icon in the top right corner of screen , then set ' Notifications ' to ' off ' .
Because it was Apple 's way of making fun of Windows . No reason other than that .
Set call forwarding to forward calls directly to your voice mail or your home number ( assuming you have an answering machine ) . As long as you do this before leaving the country it should not result in huge roaming bills . You will still get SMS though , and data roaming may cost a lot as well .
You could use a software like <URL> to easily achieve your need : Caffeine is a tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Right-click ( or ⌘ - click ) the icon to show the menu .
end question
start question
Replacing SuperDrive with secondary storage ?
I can only give you an overview of my own personal experience with the process and hardware I used . Alot of this is copy pasted from my posts on <URL> on macrumors.com . Here goes : I bought the ebay optical bay caddy <URL> . Works great . Depending on your model , I would recommend using the " Optical Drive Replacement " guide on <URL> ( <URL> to my particular model , the mid-2010 15in ) . Once you remove the drive , you have to do a bit of ad-lib in order to install the caddy . The only issue with this caddy is that two screw holes on the outside facing part of the macbook case do not have a matching hole on the caddy . So the caddy is held in place by one screw on the innermost side . The screw hole that DOES exist on the caddy is actually not part of the caddy at all . You remove a little bracket from the superdrive and use the 2 screws it was secured with to attach it to the caddy in the same position . It seemed pretty wobbly to me so I just took 3 pieces of electrical tape , folded each one on top of itself once , and stuffed them into the spaces where the caddy had wiggle room between the other components and parts of the case . Problem solved ... the enclosure does n't move one bit inside the case . I think it might even dampen the noise a bit since it keeps the metal from contacting other metal bits . So , the important bits about the superdrive replacement : BACKUP YOUR DATA : probably the most important thing you can do before attempting this procedure If possible move your User 's directory to a separate volume before doing the upgrade : this will make it easier to clone your data later on ... for specifics see <URL> Follow an ifixit guide step by step and label your screws : i used one of those 2 week pill boxes and put labels on the days that corresponded the step number use good screwdrivers : I highly recommend the ifixit bit driver set as they all fit correctly and lessen the chance you will cause damage or strip your screws put your boot drive in the original HDD spot : otherwise you may have issues with sleep and hibernation make a bootable copy of your installation discs : put the OSX install DVD on a thumb drive or a partition so that you 'll be able to boot from it in an emergency without reinstalling the SuperDrive ( it may be possible to boot from the superdrive externally but I have n't tested this ) for info regarding installing your superdrive in an external enclosure , check out my answer to <URL> PROS You have the option of drastically increasing your storage space or using a SSD to dramatically speed up your OS X experience . My system boots from the SSD in about 15 seconds including 3 programs launching and about 7 or 8 menubar apps All of my data is located on my original 500GB HDD and is separated from my boot volume in case of OS or disk failure did i mention it 's lightning fast ?? :P CONS have to cart around an external superdrive enclosure if you want to use cds or dvds a HDD in the caddy is definitely noisier than a HDD in the original slot . I have a feeling this could be mitigated by some noise dampening but I have n't really worried about it too much you 're pulling apart your MacBook so there is always some risk that you 'll break something through user error
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
Solution is a terminal command with which you can control the sleep timer . I set it to 1 minute . This still means the disk wakes up every hour for the time machine backup , and also every 15 minutes-ish for god knows what reason . But its much better than before , just annoying that it regularly wakes up for a minute , which is distracting .
The Retina MacBooks use a format of SSD that can be replaced , but Apple does not make it especially easy for simple replacement . Rather than the more familiar 2.5 " HD format you might be familar with , the Retina use a newer blade style , somewhat similar to memory modules . Your best bet it to look over the ifixit guides , to see what is involved : <URL> As far as I know , Apple offers repair and replace service for a Retina laptop , but I have not seen them offer ' upgrade ' service . You could always complain about issues , and ask them to replace it with a newer , and larger size , but they would only do that if the part was orginally offered as an option on the Retina . Good Luck !
<URL> Google Calendar Synchronization -- Sync iCal with Google Calendar for online read-write access to your calendars from any computer , anywhere . Requirements Mac OS X 10.4 , or Mac OS X 10.5 , or Mac OS X 10.6
Here are some tips about the batteries that go inside Apple computers and devices . lithium cells will catch on fire and burn with such intensity that they can ignite almost anything that is combustible if you damage during the replacement . To save space , Apple engineers designed the case of your MacBook to protect the battery - once you open the case , the battery is extremely vulnerable to physical damage or a short circuit . If you lose one tiny metal screw behind the battery and then shut your case it could easily squeeze , crush or puncture a battery cell - setting you up for disaster down the road . that being said , assuming you power off your Mac before you start the replacement , you wo n't lose any data and you probably wo n't damage anything else as long as you are slow and careful . Pay attention to not damage the delicate cables or lose any parts . Be willing to take it to a trained technician if you ca n't be absolutely certain you did the replacement right . dispose of the spent battery properly and insure it is safely protected and packaged so it does n't get punctured and start a fire . Lithium batteries are considered hazardous waste in many places and should it catch on fire , release of very toxic gases will happen . as long as the battery contains the proper parts , there is no break-in procedure whatsoever . You might be on your own if you select an aftermarket part have to do some research with the vendor to be sure you have the correct part .
/ usr/sbin/installer The installer command is used to install Mac OS X installer packages to a specified domain or volume . The installer command installs a single package per invocation , which is specified with the - package parameter ( - pkg is accepted as a synonym ) . It may be either a single package or a metapackage . In the case of the metapackage , the packages which are part of the default install will be installed unless disqualified by a package 's check tool ( s ) . See for the full functionality . Often is all that 's needed .
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
<URL> is a good place for parts . They seem to sell complete screw kits for different models . Although one screw missing wo n't hurt the unit . I repaired a machine recently that is literally held together with celo tape and stickers .
What happens in your proposed case is that if you delete messages from the iPhone , and then power on your Mac , the Mac will not receive those deleted messages . EDIT : Well , folks , I stand corrected . I certainly believed the above to be the case , but my tests proved otherwise . I sent several messages from multiple devices to other devices that were powered down . Each message was deleted before the recipients were powered back on . Although there was a significant lag in reception ( one took nearly ten minutes ) , all messages that were sent were received , even those that were deleted . Several of the messages were out of sync , which does n't surprise me given the flakiness of the iMessage system during its infancy . However , to the original question , the answer is that messages , deleted or otherwise , eventually find their destination , even to devices that were powered down when those messages were transmitted . ( Hat tip to tubedogg for the correction . )
Yes . Follow the instructions in <URL> or <URL> . Essentially , the procedure is this : Pairing your remote with your Mac : Log in on your Mac as an Admin user . Get very close to your Mac ( about 3 or 4 inches away ) . Point the remote at the infrared sensor on the front of your Mac . Press and hold the Menu and Next/Fast-forward buttons simultaneously on the remote for 5 seconds . Your Apple Remote is now paired with your computer . You should see a chain-link style lock appear in the center of your screen for a moment . To pair your Apple TV with a remote : Choose Settings > General > Remotes from the main Apple TV menu . Choose Pair Apple Remote .
I see this happen somewhat often in our office environment where Outlook 2011 is connected to our Exchange server . Typically a spotlight re-index will do the trick , either using the method you tried or by adding the HD to Spotlight 's privacy pane , then removing it a few minutes later . Sometimes I have to go a step further &amp; remove preference files . spotlight.plist , outlook.plist , etc. . . Beyond that I will sometimes be forced to rebuild the Outlook identity using the Microsoft Database Utility ( hold opt while opening Outlook ) . Hope that helps ! ( Oddly it 's always 2 weeks here as well )
<URL> by Agile Bits may suit your needs and has just been updated to version 4 . Sync your notes ( and passwords ) on the LAN to your other devices or via DropBox . ( Only encrypted data is sent to Dropbox as per your requirement . )
One of my favorite tools for doing this is <URL> which is " donationware . " You can adjust each monitor separately , and set keyboard shortcuts for them as well . If you want a command line solution , I found <URL> which compiled cleanly using : ( You 'll need Xcode to be installed to compile it . If you want a precompiled version , mine is available here <URL> ) It will let you set the brightness for either monitor . UPDATE : Note that this answer is several years old . The link above is now 404 but there is a newer tool available at http://github.com/nriley/brightness or ` brew install screenbrightness `
If you really want a ONE TIME install , go to any Apple Store and let them use one of the drives there . I 'm sure they 'll have no problem . Tell them you want to try before you buy ;) In other news , you can put Windows 7 on a USB Stick and install it from there . I 've used the DVD only once , to create the USB Stick . There are instructions over the net on how to do that , even from outside Windows ( but if you have a Win machine to do it , it 's faster because there 's a free tool ) .
Unfortunately , this is n't possible . The MacBook7 ,1 has a SATA connection for the optical drive , whereas the MacBook2 ,1 has an ATA connection for the optical drive .
The iPhone 4S takes video at 1080p and 30 fps and initial tests are showing that video takes 200MB per minute . At roughly 12 GB per hour , what seemed staggering a year ago is now quite quaint with the iPhone 4 recording at less than 5 GB / hour . <URL> that an hour of iPhone 4 video is 4.8 gig . The iPhone records its 720p HD video at around 10 megabits ( Mbps ) per second . That translates to about 80MB per minute , as we noted above , or a staggering 4.8 GB per hour . ( Hope you sprung for the 32GB model ! )
Use <URL> to map caps lock to some key like F19 . Then install <URL> and save a file like this as : Then open the Karabiner application , press the ReloadXML button , and click the checkbox for the setting . If others search for how to for example map pressing caps lock to escape and holding caps lock to control , use :
I have this product . All your concerns are valid . Modal dialogs and prompts are split by the program 's bezel . The dock can be positioned across only one monitor , but that is the only configuration option . Fullscreen video on one monitor is not possible . Fullscreen apps span both screens , which does n't work well . Calendar is OK . Mail is impossible , especially when composing a message . It is easy to maximize to just one window using built in hotkeys . However " true " fullscreen is usually complicated by monitor bezels .
end question
start question
On iPad 's iBooks , how to make highlighting show up for PDF files ?
iBooks for iPad currently does n't support highlighting in PDFs . However , there are many 3rd party apps like <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> that support PDF highlighting and annotating . I use GoodReader and I can personally verify that PDF highlights that were made on Mac 's Preview do show up on the GoodReader iPad app . I also tested the DropBox iPad app and PDF highlights do not show up . Hopefully , Apple will add PDF highlighting to a future version of iBooks . If enough people request this feature at the <URL> , maybe they will add it in the near future .
If you have an iCloud account , you can enable Photo stream and sync it to your Mac or PC , then delete them on iPad , and you can upgrade . BTW iOS 7.0.2 to 7.0.3 OTA only takes less than 1GB of space , so you can just delete some music or apps you do n't want .
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
You ca n't , Spotlight stores the search index in the root folder of the volume . When the volume is disconnected , you can not get search results from it .
<URL> iOS app was updated to version 4.0 which includes a new feature that will save reading locations to multiple devices using iCloud . Here 's a quote from their notes on what 's new in 4.0 . Library Synchronization • Your entire library , including folders , reading locations , bookmarks and annotations are synchronized across all your devices using iCloud Drive . Voice Dream is meant as a text-to-speech app , but it also works well for times you want to read PDFs and other text without speech .
The file you mention is a binary formatted property list . You can convert and edit these files with developer tools such as <URL> . The following article walks through the steps required , <URL> .
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
60Hz . Apple DTS has not changed any of their answers about 60Hz refresh rates with respect to any device model , and no one has reported any higher rate .
I 've needed to goto my Google Contacts and add the person to the built-in " My Contacts " group . I have n't found the " My Contacts " option in the preview of Google 's updated ( for 2015 ) Contacts preview . <URL>
If the drive is appearing in Disk Utility and shows up as being mounted , try this : In the Finder , go to the Finder menu , then Finder Preferences , then General and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items on the desktop " . Then on the Sidebar screen and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items in the sidebar . " This should make the drive appear .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
It does not appear that there is a way to see ALL photo locations on a map at one time , aside from a small Info window . Here 's what you need to do : For the small info window that shows all locations : 1 . Go to the Albums tab in Photos 2 . Right-click on " All Photos " - > Get info 3 . Note the small window has a map included which you can zoom in/out of For maps that vary by date : Go to View menu - > Metadata - > Location Go to the Photos tab and zoom all the way out to Years Note that there are locations next to the year . Click on the location name
Question 1 Yes , all Time Machine backups are full directory structures of your entire disk ( minus backup exclusions ) . Each backup is made up of hardlinks to unchanged files so each backup appears to be a " full " backup from Finder . Open your Time Machine volume in Finder ( may be within a sparsebundle if you backup over the network ) and you should see a folder called and under that the machine 's hostname . Each backup has a folder in the format . System files are under and . All of your user preferences will be under / / . Question 2 For user data you can just back up the folder . For system stuff you can copy ( note that this is separate to the folder in your home directory ) , but it might be better to use a product such as <URL> or <URL> . However by default Time Machine will be backing up the entire disk so you should be fine . When you reinstall your OS , you 'll get a chance to restore the entire system from a Time Machine backup . If you choose not to do this , when you first boot the new OS you get another chance to restore applications and user data . On a personal note , I use a combination of SuperDuper ! ( weekly full system backups to a bootable firewire drive ) and Time Machine ( incremental backups ) .
You might not be happy with the current functionality of iTunes , but here 's how to works . The folder structure from iBooks in iOS does n't get reflected in iTunes , so you ca n't control which category new books will arrive in on the device . You can have a folder of epub files and drag them into iTunes , but they go where iTunes puts them , not a folder of your choosing . This allows bulk injection of hundreds or thousands of books into management for syncing . The computer version of iTunes will then make a copy of those files in it 's Media folder and sync them to all iOS devices the next time they sync ( assuming you have the sync rules to sync all Books to each device ) . Now , the good news is that if you go ahead and file a book in a category on your iOS device other than Books , that information does sync back to iTunes and the next sync will re-organize things on other devices so you file once , and then sync each device to get them all in sync . Furthermore , if you have a new iOS device ( or erase an existing device ) and push all books to that device . The folder status from the last device sync goes to that empty iBooks on iOS . If and when Apple adds a control to iTunes , you may be able to order books on iTunes just like you can order App icons in iTunes and then sync the device to see the results .
Answers above are old we are at iOS 10 . Google Drive did show and now it has disappeared just after successfully uploading from Photos to my Google Drive . I 'm signed in and can see my drive contents .
It 's easy to tell iTunes that an audio file is an Audiobook . That will automatically put it in the right section , and not play it when shuffling . Select the tracks you want to mark as audiobooks and go to File - > Get Info - > Options . Set Media Kind : to Audiobook .
I care a lot about PDFs because as a lawyer I have to review a lot of scanned documents . The performance of PDF rendering on the new iPad depends on the techniques used . For full-resolution rendering , it 's a little slower , but software goes a long way . The overall experience depends on four factors : 1 ) Single-page rendering method 2 ) Zoom method 3 ) Caching 4 ) Pre-rendering Explanation : 1 ) Single page rendering : some apps do n't display anything until the whole page is rendered . Others render in a tiled fashion : some top to bottom , some in a spiral inside out . Some apps first render a low-res version of the page , then render the full-res version -- again , by either of the two methods . 2 ) Zoom : Again , some apps render on the fly , while others zoom in on the pre-rendered image and pop in the re-rendered tiles or the whole view . The iPad handles vector rescaling ( including text ) superbly , but rasterized PDFs ca n't be scaled in real-time if they 're in iPad-resolution territory . 3 ) Caching : some apps do n't cache at all , so re-render each time you change the view ( even if you 're on the same page ) . Others only cache one page at a time . Still others cache three pages or more , so you can flip pages and zoom in smoothly without re-rendering . 4 ) Pre-rendering : a few apps will pre-render the next page . One app , described below , pre-renders the whole document . iBooks and the Amazon Kindle app render large PDFs pretty efficiently . iBooks caches three pages , while Kindle 's cache seems to depend on page size . Kindle pre-renders the next page while you 're on the preceding page . However , neither support PDF markup . ( Kindle also does n't support rotation One app , just called " PDF " ( by Smalltalk Consulting ) pre-renders the entire PDF so that most of the subsequent work is done by the GPU . You set the rendering resolution . The default " 2x " gives you around 150dpi , " 4x " around 300 dpi , etc. . It slows down once you get past 4.5 x , but that resolution is sufficient for most applications . This is the best app I 've found to scroll quickly through large PDFs . However , it does n't render markup and does n't support any markup tools of its own . In short , the new iPad can not speed through a 600dpi PDF the way a quad-core i7 with 12GB of RAM can . But it can display and handle large PDF files the way they were meant to be -- with the right software . Goodreader has the best performance of any PDF viewer I 've tried , followed by PDF Expert . Certain techniques that worked on the old iPad just do n't fly on the new one , so some apps perform very poorly . ( Adobe 's own Reader is one of these . ) Other apps , like iPDF , are promising , but still do n't have full Retina support . ( Several apps only take advantage of the Retina display when zoomed in , but double the pixels when viewing the whole page . ) To answer the original question and the follow-up : rendering is done by the CPU , display and manipulation ( scrolling , zooming ) is done by the GPU . The CPU converts the text portions using the text rendering engine and the graphical portions using a bitmap engine . ( It 's possible that the iPad 's text rendering engine is handled by the GPU . ) The CPU on the new iPad is not significantly faster . PDF rendering methods that are CPU-heavy are even slower on the new iPad because the CPU has to do significantly more work to render at the higher resolution . But rendering methods that get data to the GPU quickly perform great . The more rendering work done in the background , the better . A well-designed PDF rendering engine will use idle time to generate image data that 's ready for the GPU . An engine that renders " on the fly " ( what I called " in real time " ) will choke . " Pre-rendering the entire PDF " means that instead of each page being converted to an image as you scroll through , the whole PDF is rendered and loaded into memory as an image . This takes more RAM but results in faster performance when scrolling and zooming . It takes 5-30 seconds ( or more ) to pre-render the whole file . Also , when zooming in , the image does not re-scale . ( Text portions of the PDF wo n't be crisp if you zoom in . ) Google Docs basically does this with PDFs if you want to see what I 'm talking about .
Currently there is no way to accomplish this . The Growl mailing lists <URL> allowing Growl to always place the notification on the display that you have a window focused in . For example , you have 3 displays , oriented in a horizontal line , and you 're doing some file management on the far-left display and web browsing on the far right . If Finder has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-left display , if Safari/Chrome/Firefox / $ BROWSER has focus , the notification will be shown on the far-right display . But this feature has not yet been implemented , so you are limited to explicitly configuring Growl to send notifications to a single display . This feature has been written up on their Google Code Project page , so you can star <URL> in order to receive further notifications . Note that you can star it on an issue detail page by clicking the star outline to the left of the title " Issue 122 : [ ... ] " , or at the bottom of the page just above the comment box . After clicking the star in either location , it will turn yellow and have a thicker blue outline , that means you 've subscribed , and in essence , " voted " for the feature .
Turns out Inkscape has a command line mode . I added this to . bash_profile : and now this command converts from PDF to SVG : Unfortunately , the current version of Sketch has very rudimentary SVG import capabilities and ca n't correctly read any of the files I 've made even though they display fine in Opera and OmniWeb . The company says future versions will do better .
Right click ( or control + click ) on and adjacent column header letter . For example " Column D " . Then select Unhide from the dialog . <URL>
end question
start question
How to install SVN binary on Mountain Lion ?
Xcode actually has SVN bundled in its . app directory . Its available at ( If you put Xcode.app in your Applications folder ) . You can add this path to your PATH , then access directly again . If you need other Xcode command line tools ( like gcc without installing Xcode ) , you can actually install them without installing Xcode first by going to <URL> , and download and install the Xcode Command Line Tools .
If you hold down alt/option when you click the format dropdown in the export menu , you can still select GIF in Mountain Lion . Once you have done this , you can continue with the normal animated gif creation process : Save your image as a GIF Show the sidebar Drag additional frames on top of the thumbnail
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
Internet Recovery If you <URL> , hold ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt + R on boot to begin . An image of OS X will be downloaded from the internet , and can be installed on the internal SSD normally . Once this is complete , you can restore your data from your external drive .
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
Apple computers have long been considered " virus free " although Apple stopped pushing this as a selling point earlier this year in the wake of several Apple targeted viruses . The truth is that a virus can be programmed for mac much like a software application can , the reason for the lack if infections on mac was merely the same as the reason for lack of some apps in the past , the relative unpopularity vs windows machines meant it was less practical to program for mac . With macs now being more popular than ever before , Apple now has to implement strict measures to hold on to their clean , virus free image , hence Gatekeeper being added to Mountain Lion .
What you like to do ... there is a working SSH / SSL already on your Mac . If you like to build stunnel you need Xcode with the CLI tools ... and some time . I haven ´ t tried it but a quick look in the build instructions looks as if there are no big problems . As promised , here are the steps to build stunnel from source . I used a Lion machine but it is the same on a Mountain Lion machine . There is no need for Fink , MacPorts or Homebrew ... brings more troubles then it helps . Go to <URL> and download stunnel-5.23.tar.gz and stunnel-5.23.tar.gz . sha256 . Open a terminal Utilities = > Terminal > . Terminal is case sensitive , before you do something think twice before you press return - there is no undo or redo in terminal . Each line is one line in terminal and needs to press return at the end of the line . Compare the output of the last 2 lines - if it matches all is fine , if not you had a security problem during download . The configure script uses autoconf , so put your fingers away from other options because if all is there and supported it will build a fine 64 bit app for you . make check is optionally . sudo make install requires your admin password . During this step you had to input some basic informations ( self explaining ) . The &amp; &amp; is used to run one command after each other ONLY if the last was successful . After all is done your stunned app was installed in / usr/local/bin . To run it , open terminal and type or ( see the docs for the difference ) and press return . For the config file type in terminal . For the documentation of pico use in terminal . If I had some mistypes of filenames or anything else here use in terminal the following command to list a directory For the rest , have fun with stunned and the documentation of it !
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
do it with the scipy superpack , by <URL> . It 's very easy , automated and it works ( using it right now ! ) . It also takes care of installing Fortran for you , which is mandatory for the python libraries to work . PS : If you have Lion , Numpy is already part of it .
Windows 8 needs Boot Camp 5.1 Your Macbook can only run Boot Camp from DVD , not from USB [ same for any Superdrive-euipped Macbook ] &amp; also can , as far as I can tell , only run Boot Camp 4 . That means your only choices are Windows XP or Vista , 32-bit . See <URL>
I suspect it will be serial number based , or model number based . As the new models will no doubt all have serial numbers and indeed model identifiers ( iMac 9,1 for example ) that will allow them to clearly identify which machines are applicable , and allow the upgrade as appropriate . In previous " up-to-date " schemes it has been this way , and not reliant in any way on what is installed on your drive . If you are transferring to a different boot volume , I would recommend using an image file rather than Time Machine . You can pick up a USB enclosure for your SSD , image the existing drive onto it , and then simply swap them over - this is how I have done things in similar scenarios .
from <URL> So you might be best contacting them .
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
AD user @patrix did a great AD blog post on new terminal commands in Mountain Lion . You can find it here : <URL>
You can get the home timeline from the Twitter API and display tweets using <URL> . would stack multiple notifications and not clip the text in long tweets . The Twitter library can be installed with . You can run the script every minute by editing the crontab with and adding a line like . A recent update to <URL> added an option to send notifications for all tweets :
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
About 40 minutes or so . I 'm assuming a 5400RPM drive , 7200RPM or an SSD would be faster , obviously .
end question
start question
Is there a black & white option for color printer when using air print ?
The built-in AirPrint does n't allow this sort of functionality as of iOS 4 , but if you get the <URL> , you should be able to do B&amp;W printing and manage other settings . This of course only works if you have an AirPrint/ePrint HP printer , it wo n't work with any other printer that you 've hacked to set up with AirPrint .
That would be the Ctrl-Left or Right Arrow to slide between full screen applications .
In the " Input menu " in the menu bar ( to switch on . Make sure in is selected ) And you have your cheat sheet .
You can change the functions of the modifier keys ( Caps Lock , Control , Option , Command ) in System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Modifier Keys . If you have more than one keyboard , the setting window allows you to select and set separate mapping for each one : <URL>
Yes , there are several : <URL> @ github ( free ) <URL> ( free ) ( not available anymore ) <URL> ( free )
In case anyone has this problem and does n't have Nocture , you should be able to fix it by running the following Terminal command : This restarts the process responsible for drawing the menu bar . It should fix almost all menu bar-related problems .
With iTunes in foreground , either press ⌘ T or select View > Visualizer , choose the animation , and select View > Show Visualizer . The visual effect will change with the music : enjoy !
With new keyboards , one option to accomplish this turned out the be <URL> It 's a keyboard app that lets you type into the main app , and then find any one of a number of messages to paste later . Nice ! I think there are other keyboards out there providing similar functionality , but this was the first free option I found .
If you are looking for something that keeps track of servers/connections via a GUI , Terminal.app will already do that for you . Launch it and then from the menu select Shell > New Remote Connection . This will give you a connections manager window .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
The power adapter is required for closed display mode on any Apple portable machine , without it you ca n't use closed display mode . Reference : <URL> There is however a third party solution , called Caffine . Which when enabled , forces the mac to stay on until the battery dies , it wo n't ever sleep . <URL>
I have this in my bash_profile : It uses Applescript ( which you do n't want ) to change the terminal profile . Replace the and with your own color scheme names . When you use the ssh command , the macro changes the shell theme , then runs ssh . When you exit the remote session , it changes it back . Very cool ! I tried using the shell color escape sequences like and but the remote session can and does reset them . This works great for me .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
If you have a USB Flash Drive of 8 GB of size , you can make a Lion Installer and use it to securely erase the Drive . <URL> You can also make a USB Bootable Recovery Disk as explained here by Apple : <URL> Once you have done either you can hold down the key while restarting your computer and booting from it . When it loads up , it will give you a few different options , you will need to use the Disk Utility part and highlight your HD and choose the Erase Tab . Under the erase settings will be a security option when you can write the disk to 0 once or even multiple times . There is a guide on it here : <URL> See the part where it says How to Zero erase and install OS X I hope that helps you out . Updated The guy at the bottom of this post : <URL> points out a work around to securely erase the SSD drive in the MacBook Air through encryption . This is what he says : cmace127 I found a workaround . Restart the computer and hold option to enter the setup screen . Go into disk utility and select the drive . Erase the drive using " Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) . Make a password for the encryption , it does n't matter what it is because you wo n't need it . Hit " Erase " . Now select the volume and the " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " buttons should no longer be grayed out . Click and select your level of security and off you go . I presume " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " should do the same thing because you just erased the drive so all space is considered free . This worked for me so let me know if it helps . Let me know if that 's works , this should securely erase the drive since it will then be encrypted . Also , in the future with lion be sure to use File Vault 2 so that you do n't have to worry about this again .
If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " checked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " unchecked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + Fn + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar Although the leftmost user-installed ones on my computer can not be accessed , you can then use the cursor keys to move ← → and ↓ to bring up the menu associated with the icon . In addition , Ctrl + F2 ( or Ctrl + Fn + F2 ) moves keyboard focus to the menubar items .
Since your iPhone let you sign up for an iCloud account , you have full access to the web services provided by iCloud.com , which include : Contacts Calendars Mail Find My iPhone You are only limited by your computer , but still have access to the web tools . There may be ( unsupported ) ways to get some of these applications on your 10.5 Mac to sync , especially with Mail . Most of iCloud uses standard networking protocols , and therefore older programs may be able to use them . One may want to tread lightly though , since this is unsupported , and may cause issues/corruption in other parts that are supported ( ie , you would n't want to edit your contacts in a way on 10.5 even if you could , since it could break them on your iPhone ) .
Try this ... Save the file locally on your windows computer . Right click on the file and select rename . Remove . pages extension and enter . zip as the extension and press enter . Open the zip file and it should allow you open the file and its contents .
end question
start question
Can I block ports and network traffic when using Personal Hotspot ?
For outgoing connections , the only jailbreak application that exists is <URL> . It behaves similarly to the Mac OS X application <URL> . For incoming connections , you will have to use a regular firewall system such as . Disclaimer : To anyone actually looking to use on iOS , you 're going to have to patch the kernel to include support for . Documented , nobody has ever done it , but it 's not technically impossible . The jailbreak itself patches the kernel upon boot , so this would require the same exploits used during that process . If you have happened to patch into the kernel , then proceed with my original answer below . Add the repository in . Then install the app from the BigBoss repository and the package from The Worm repository . Then you can go into the terminal app you just got and run . This will let you write to your firewall tables . If you need a tutorial on how to use , there 's a good one <URL> .
Seems like a solution is to hold home button + volume down + screen lock until device forcibly reboots . After that , guided access began responding properly again and I was able to exit the app . Edit : Through trial and error , I felt this was home button + volume down + screen lock , but as comments have noted , volume down is not necessary .
No need for a jailbroken iPad , iCab can block ads <URL> And it is a great browser .
Yes - set up a DHCP reservation on your TimeCapsule using the Airport Utility of your choice . I prefer using a client ID so you can easily change things when you get a new server , but typing the MAC address in also works .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
No - the OS picks channels algorithmically so you get what iOS chooses each time you enable personal hot spot . I 've seen personal hotspot pick channels 1 , 6 and 11 on iOS 7 when in moderately busy wireless environments like this one with 26 advertising base stations ( and a few hidden ones as well ) .
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
You want to make sure that your Mac 's ethernet device is before the wifi device in the system 's network service order . In System Preferences , Go to Network ; under the device listing , click the ' gear ' icon and select ' Set Service Order . ' Drag ' Ethernet ' to the top . Per my understanding , all traffic will attempt to be routed through the top-most device , and will only be routed through devices lower in the chain should the above route ( s ) be unavailable .
You may want a second network adapter , but first try adding a second WiFi connection in the network preference pane . You could pick a static IP address that is valid , but outside the DHCP 's range ( or reserved and not assigned via DHCP ) . Then your iPhone could proxy against the static IP and set up IP forwarding from the command line . It would be easier to have a second interface and let the Mac software handle the routing for you . Also , be aware that firewalls should be off or configured to allow inbound traffic from the iPhone .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
It does drain your battery ; whether it 's worth it for you to turn it off is up to you and how long your battery last . Also something worth noting is that by leaving it on and walking around other people can see your hotspot and might try to connect . Even if they 're unsuccessful it will drain your battery even faster . If they are successful who knows what they might do while connected . In general though , any app on your phone that sends/receive data is going to drain your battery more than an app that does n't .
From the article , <URL> : [ Originally posted on Neowin.net by giga on 04 April 2010 12:26 ] The <URL> clearly state the ability to charge with USB ( with no mention of OS requirements ) but Apple have additionally <URL> disclosing that " some USB 2.0 ports and accessories do not provide enough power to charge iPad . " <URL> , Apple asserts that USB charging is supported but that it varies according to the state of the iPad and the power output of the USB hub : For the fastest charging , use the iPad 's included 10-Watt USB power adapter . This will fully charge the iPad in a few hours , even if you 're using the iPad at the same time . When connected to a high-power USB port -- such as the ones on recent Macs and the iPhone Power Adapter -- the iPad will charge , even during use , but more slowly . ( We have n't yet determined how much more slowly . ) Some third-party powered USB hubs provide higher-power USB ports , but many do n't ; similarly , the USB ports on most Windows PCs do n't provide this additional power . When connected to lower-power USB ports -- those on older Macs , most Windows PCs , and most USB hubs ( powered or unpowered ) -- the iPad 's battery is not charged while the iPad is awake , but is charged ( again , slowly ) when the iPad is asleep . What 's confusing here is that the message " Not charging " appears in the menu bar when the iPad is awake , which might lead you to assume that the offending USB port can never charge your iPad . But rest assured , Apple says : once you put the iPad to sleep , the battery will indeed charge . ( If you could see the screen while the iPad was asleep , it might even display the charging icon . It 's the modern-day " Does the refrigerator light stay on when I close the door ? " mystery . ) Further analysis from Apple 's statements indicate that the iPad can only be charged off of USB connections that provide near 1 amp of current . The majority of USB ports on most older Macs and PCs only provide 500 mA and thus ca n't be used to charge the device . The USB 2.0 specification provides 500 mA of current to high-powered buses and 100 mA for low-powered buses . But in April 2009 , the specification gained a new " <URL> " which provided additional current to high power devices and it seems that Apple has started to incorporate it in their newer Macs .
TCPBlock TCPBlock is a lightweight and fast application firewall ... you can prevent selected applications on your computer from opening connections to the network . TCPBlock is free and can be downloaded <URL> , however TCPBlock does n't appear to work with El Capitan and is no longer being updated . PF Firewall OS X comes with the PF firewall , which can be configured to block all connections to certain servers in all apps . Blocking all connections from a single app is not possible as far as I am aware without external software . You can use <URL> as a GUI for the PF firewall .
I know this is n't directly what you asked for , but if you are looking for a non-techie approach to sharing printers via Airprint , you could do far worse than to use <URL> . It 's not free , but it is n't expensive and it works very well indeed .
Quoting from an <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : When you connect a device to your Personal Hotspot , the status bar turns blue and shows how many devices have joined . The number of devices that can join your Personal Hotspot at one time depends on your carrier and iPhone model . I believe the typical limit is usually between 3 to 5 devices .
Personal Hotspot mode detaches the device from any network and is intended to make all data flow to and from the cellular account . If you pulled the SIM card your plan just might work as a stunt to connect two laptops in the absence of another router , but it certainly wo n't extend an existing wireless network in the manner you describe .
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
This option seems to be only for outgoing connections , which is too bad . I would also like to be able to restrict some incoming connections to my LAN .
Little Snitch is like a Ferrari if you can afford it . There is a now discontinued little app that does the same for 10.6 and before Yosemite . <URL> : Allows you to select who is to be blocked and who not .
You can try this one-liner : Let it run for a while , then hit Control-C . It will print a summary of the number of bytes read from sockets , distributed among processes . For a more detailed view , replace by . Or just to see a count of socket reads , replace by . Disclaimer : I have only tried this on Lion , but AFAIK no great changes in dtrace-ability have occured between SL and Lion .
end question
start question
Does iChat screen sharing over the internet work in OS X Lion ?
I used it today . Lion to Snow Leopard and Lion to Lion . Worked fine . I did n't even think about it not working until I read this ... :-)
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
Do n't worry , the filesystem is really the same as in Lion . What you may have misunderstood is how the new iCloud integration works . Every app that supports it ( it may even be built-in if you use the system-standard open/save components , I 'm unsure ) will display an iCloud tab in the Open/Save dialogs , but this is in addition to the standard Finder hierarchy that 's been around forever . This new iCloud storage does n't allow nested folders , so you only get one level of hierarchy . The idea is to keep things simple à la iOS ( it looks like and is conceptually the same as organizing apps on iOS ) . For more detail and description , check out the <URL> section of <URL> 's Mountain Lion review at Ars Technica .
Do n't know of a way to specifically do that , but you can set up browser bookmarks and/or desktop icons that will connect to specific hosts , if that 's any help . For the former , create a bookmark that points to vnc : / / hostname.blah.com rather than the more usual <URL> . For the latter , create a text file with the . command suffix ( e.g. ' myvnc.command ' ) that contains the single line : which will start the screen sharing session when you double-click it in Finder . You can also drag it to your dock if you wish .
I have n't found any documentation for this feature yet , so I do n't have any specific answers for your questions about interactions with external Time Machine drives . However , I did do some playing around with the feature while using my laptop on battery . The first thing I noticed is that local snapshots were not enabled by default -- for me , at least . I know that because " entering " Time Machine while my backup drive was detached resulted in the usual error message -- until I executed the following from a command line : After I did this , a hidden volume called was created ( in ) and I was able to " enter " Time Machine . ( Perhaps local snapshots were n't enabled on my machine because I have less than 10 % free disk space ? ) Unfortunately , the feature seems a little half-baked . I tried the following , with pretty unsatisfactory results : Created a new folder , . Forced a new snapshot by running . Verified that a new snapshot was created by looking in . Deleted the folder . Entered Time Machine and browsed the backups/snapshots . The folder was not there in any of the backups . Update : I installed Lion on a second Mac , and without any explicit action on my part , this Mac has a volume . And restoring deleted files from a local snapshot works on this Mac .
iCloud documents are cached locally in ( represents your home folder ) . They 're synchronized via HTTPS ( even when the application is closed ) and the files ( some of them , at least ) , are stored on <URL> . When opening , editing and saving a TextEdit document from iCloud , these requests are made : request to request to request to Amazon S3 request to request to request to
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
If you setup <URL> and make sure that your router , firewall etc all are passing TCP port 548 , you 'll be able to connect from the DynDNS host/domain you create . AFP over the public Internet is n't a great solution for anything other than very minor , lightweight file transfers , however , and if you 're expecting more than a few concurrent users you should really consider a better protocol , such as WebDAV or ( S ) FTP , much less Dropbox , S3 , Box.com , etc. .
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
To start Internet Sharing from the CLI : To stop , change the load to unload . Note that if you have the pref pane open when you run this you will not see the change take effect immediately ( the UI wo n't update ) , but it does work .
Option 2 in your question is the correct one . In the <URL> section of the upgrade program site you posted it says you have to pay 11 monthly payments ( you might as well think of it as 12 months because the upfront payment is in essence your first month ) . So when you have paid the monthly installment 11 times , you have 2 options : Turn in the phone for an upgrade while restarting both timers ( the 11 monthly payments + 1st down payment and the 20 month full contract ) . Continue paying for the phone until the 20 month contract is done and the phone is 100 % yours . The important thing here is that you are never paying for your old phone once you upgrade it .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
I just solved it ! SOLUTION : 1 . Activate the OS X Root User in the System Preferences . How to activate the root user : <URL> 2 . After the root user is activated , log out from your account and log in as the user " root " . Go to System Preferences - > Displays - > Color and pick the color profile ( that you want on your OS X Login Screen ) . Log out of the Root Account and you 'll see the selected color profile will be used on the Login Screen . 3 . Log back in to your normal account . Now you can deactivate the root user via System Preferences , the same way it was activated . The color profile selected via root user earlier will stay . Result : The color does n't change anymore between Login Screen and account and I do n't have a yellow/dark login screen anymore , finally ! Could Apple make that easier ? YES ! But that 's a pretty fast way to do it , without any " hacking " tricks .
According to a <URL> , FileVault 2 is not FIPS 140-2 validated , but " Apple 's new Common Crypto implementation is just starting to undergo FIPS evaluation " The code itself for Common Crypto is available at <URL> and has been all the way back to 10.4 ( where I got tired of checking revisions - it probably goes back even further , but what matters is the code shipped in Lion which is available for all three lion releases 10.7 , 10.7.1 and 10.7.2 )
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
" Up to six people in your family can share purchases from iTunes , iBooks , and the App Store without sharing accounts . Pay for family purchases with the same credit card and approve kids ' spending right from a parent 's device . Easily share photos , a family calendar , and more to help keep everyone connected . " <URL> In-App purchases are not supported by Family Sharing . <URL> If a free app has been shared and a user makes in-app purchases , this is supported ; however , if the user leaves the group in which the app was originally shared , the user will need to purchase the app on their own and then restore their purchases .
When you turn on Web Sharing from the System Prefs there will be a LAN IP that will point to your local ~ / Sites folder . All you would have to do is have those on the LAN point there browsers to where is a folder inside of your ~ / Sites folder .
I do not know of a built-in solution . The Faces feature allows multiple photos to be associated with the same person and thus requires the user to choose which face to use for each contact . You can use the ( paid ) third party app <URL> from the Mac App Store to achieve this ( check recent reviews and decide ) : Easily match Faces with your Contacts and enjoy bigger and more beautiful Contacts Photos on your iPhone . Quickly assign large and beautiful personalized images to all your Contacts from a Mac instead of boring one-by-one image matching through your iPhone 's address book interface . Ensoul Contacts boasts a unique and powerful AutoMatch Faces feature , which allows you to associate iPhoto or Aperture Faces with your Contacts in a click of a button . Ensoul Contacts allows you to easily navigate through iPhoto , Aperture and Photo Booth libraries , as well as use images from any locations available on your Mac . In just seconds , transform ordinary snapshots into the contact images of your dreams . Crop , zoom , rotate and modify the colors and textures of your pictures in a variety of ways ! As soon as you set a new contact photo , it gets automatically updated within your Contacts application and is instantly pushed to your iPhone by means of iCloud sync . See : <URL>
<URL> is a free OS X GUI to the <URL> command line utility . It will get you started on the path to rsync enlightenment . You can save common sync operations to recall them at a later time for easy rsync . And it supports the common rsync use case scenarios : push A to B but leave stuff that 's in B but not A in place , push A to B and delete stuff that 's in B but not in A , make A and B look the same ( with a conflict report ) .
Apple Pay is separate to Family Sharing . Each person maintains their own Apple Pay cards and being part of Family Sharing has no effect on this . It 's just like not being part of Family Sharing .
end question
start question
Can I use a different email/calendar/address book provider for Mac OS X and iOS ?
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
Update : The below hack worked when using <URL> instead of the DWA-160 ones . Compatible drivers using the same chipset were identified with the help of the <URL> database . A quick Google search shows that <URL> in using <URL> ( which uses the <URL> ) , although not without some minor hacking to make the driver recognize the different hardware IDs : Install driver package Extract kernel extension from installer : Show Package Contents of the installer <URL> Archive.pax.gz grab AtherosOtusMac.kext Edit plist and change or add your device id and product id converted to decimal ( illustrated below ) : Show Package Contents of AtherosOtusMac.kext Open Info.plist within ( using either Xcode or a text or XML editor ) Open System Information , find your TP-Link under USB and note down Product ID and Vendor ID Convert both numbers from hexadecimal to decimal ( you can use Calculator.app ) Replace idProduct and idVendor on the first model with your numbers Use <URL> to install your modified AtherosOtusMac.kext use DWA-160 . app ( in ) to connect Although considering the price of a new Wifi USB stick with OS X drivers , this may not be worth the effort , unless you 're doing this sort of thing for fun :-) Illustration of the plist step ( with my USB mouse as example , because I do n't have a TL-WN821N laying around ) :
You can call AppleCare as suggested and merge all your purchases from the old Apple Id to the new Apple Id . <URL> Sorry , but this is not possible at this time via our online tools . You can speak with an AppleCare representative , who can help you consolidate your registered Apple products . They can also help register your iPods , iPhones , or Mac computers under a single Apple ID . Other links that could offer some insight : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , you can add an OS X Server calendar as a separate account through Settings → Mail , Contacts , Calendars → Add Account → Other → Add OS X Server Account . This is a completely separate account to your iCloud account . You can allow sync outside of your LAN by forwarding the relevant ports .
From the man page : This action creates a valid DVD-Video structure that can be burned to a DVD - / + R ( W ) with help of mkisofs version 1.11 a27 or later <URL> Honestly I have never used this tool on Mac OS X , if you want to do some dvd ripping and this keeps frustrating you , <URL> is pretty good , or you can even use the built in <URL> to do a image backup of said DVD .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
<URL> Netkas has a ROM at that link that works for 5870s . You might also get by without flashing by going the Hackintosh route and <URL>
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
The iOS 7 agenda has n't been removed , but it 's not as intuitively easy to find . To see your agenda : In the month view , tap on any date to bring it to hourly view , then tap the icon ( bullets with lines next to the search icon ) this will allow you to toggle back and forth between hourly and agenda list view .
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
You can sign up for the public beta ( available in July ) of iOS 9 and OSX El Capitan at : <URL> In the past , the Public Beta has delays release of a specific build a bit behind the developer betas so those builds wo n't be as potentially buggy or as up to date . The new unified developer account costs $ 99 yearly . Sign up through the <URL> to get immediate access to watchOS , iOS 9 and El Capitan on June 8 and later . The initial El Capitan download is 6.06 GB and downloads as a redemption code from the Mac App Store . The initial Xcode 7 beta build is 4.22 GB and downloads from an <URL> The big news with Xcode 7 is that it removed the requirement you be a paid developer to run your own code on your own devices . This will be huge for students of all ages with limited budgets . Xcode 7 and Swift now make it easier for everyone to build apps and run them directly on their Apple devices . Simply sign in with your Apple ID , and turn your idea into an app that you can touch on your iPad , iPhone , or Apple Watch . Download Xcode 7 beta and try it yourself today . Program membership is not required . This <URL> to start coding and running apps even if your Mac and iOS devices are not yet up to the announced OS . You get more tools if you join the paid program , but the basics are widely available today .
I have n't used it - so I ca n't say if it 's any good - but I noticed that you did n't include the <URL> in your list . Have you tried using that to view your ePub books ?
If it 's unlocked , you do n't need to activate it first . Simply switch out the T-Mobile SIM card and insert any SIM from a GSM carrier ( basically anything but Sprint or Verizon in the US ) and the device should work . If you are curious , you can open the settings app and tap General , tap About then tap Carrier to update the carrier settings for the new carrier OTA . You can update carrier settings over USB with iTunes as well .
You should try opera <URL> it fast and works well . Caveat : Opera only works on Macs with Intel-based processors . If you have a PowerPC chip ( G5 ) , good luck . Opera 12 wo n't work .
Address Book has this functionality built in . First , create a group and drag the contacts you want to send mail to into that group : Select the group , then go File - > Print . Under the Style menu , you will see that you have the option to print either envelopers or address labels . The Layout tab will let you configure what specific kind of labels or envelopes you have :
You can install Soundflower . It 's a great utility that creates virtual input and output devices . So you could route QuickTime player , for example , as the input for the dictation . <URL>
At least under iOS 5 you should be able to see a blue circle with a white arrow inside next to your text message ; tapping on this will bring up a list of links ( if there are more than one in your message ) , including the e-Mail address . Tapping on the e-Mail address will bring up the default " Info " page , from which you could create a new contact . More importantly , on that " Info " page you ´ re now able to tap-and-hold on the e-Mail address at the top , which will bring up the " Copy " - Bubble .
If this is a hobby and you are not planning on releasing any apps to the app store , and you can tolerate the slow performance and do n't care about running on real devices , then do n't worry about it . However , if you are creating a business the it is essential to run on real hardware . Any low end Mac ( MacBook Air 11 " , is my current favorite ) will blow away any virtual machine . I have a fairly simple app that runs fine on my iPad and iPod Touch , but has all sorts of graphic anomalies in the simulator .
Apple does not offer any insurance like that with Applecare . I think Dell only offers it because replacing a piece of equipment is ultimately really cheap for them , but Apple does n't play Dell 's game ( and that is probably part of the reason why you purchased an Apple product ) . Going by the fact that you are in the USA , I think this would depend on the type of damages for which you are seeking insurance , which you do n't specify in your question . Renter 's or home insurance would protect against theft from your home ( rent or own , respectively ) . Damage incurred while being on the road would probably fall under some kind of business insurance , though I 'd imagine you would pay a pretty hefty penny for that level of care no matter who you call . I think your best course action would be to call your insurance company and see what they have to offer that best suits your particular needs .
end question
start question
Is it possible to assign custom Keyboard Shortcuts to Styles in Pages 5.0 ?
In current version ( 5.2 ) of Pages the feature has been re-introduced . I guess this closes the question .
As you need to do a shift + enter ( also called ' soft return ' ) to do it ( because ' enter ' acts like ' tab ' ) , you ca n't on iOS . According to this <URL> Zoagli points it in <URL> you ca n't do it on iOS . Alternatively you can try to add the soft return on a computer via Contact.app ( on a mac ) , or via the web interface of your contact manager ( Google contacts ... ) PS iCloud on the web does n't support soft return .
You can <URL> that opens the specific preference pane . You can find the preference pane bundles in the set of folders : / System/Library/PreferencePanes / Library/PreferencePanes ~ / Library/PreferencePanes Preference panes are special bundles that when opened from the Finder , will launch System Preferences.app and automatically switch to their settings . Create an Automator Service Drag the desired preference pane onto the Automator workflow Add the Open Finder Items action ... ... and select System Preferences.app in the action Add a Watch Me Do action to record any clicks and interactions with the panel To assign this workflow as a keyboard shortcut , see this Tuts + tutorial , <URL> .
Yes , you can do this . Open System Preferences . Select Keyboard . Select Keyboard Shortcuts . Select Application Shortcuts in the left navigation pane . Click the + button to create a new shortcut . Choose Microsoft Outlook.app in the Application drop-down menu . Enter the exact name of the menu command you want to add . E.g. for an Outlook category named " Project X " enter that category name , " Project X. " Click in the Keyboard Shortcut field and press a unique keyboard sequence such as Control-Option-T . Click the Add button . For some more ideas about how you could add keyboard shortcuts to Outlook : Mac , check out <URL> in the Office : Mac Help Blog .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
The answer to your new question is the US International PC layout provided by Apple .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
Mac OS X Server is designed for remote " headless " administration and even initial setup . Server Admin included with the <URL> provides a GUI interface for server administration tasks as well as the ability to screen share the server desktop remotely . Apple provides a guide : <URL> .
Unfortunately , Preview can only rotate in 90 * increments and flip images . If you want to rotate a different amount , you 'll have to use a more-powerful program , like Photoshop or <URL> . From Preview Help :
Yes , but you do n't do it within iTunes . If you want the song files you drop into a particular folder to automatically be added to an iTunes playlist , you use Automator to create a folder action like this one : You start Automator , and create a Folder Action . You select the folder you want as the source of files . Then , the action is " Import Files into iTunes " at which point you select the playlist to which you want the songs added . Then you save the Folder Action .
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
<URL> can change key combinations like control + c to command + c everywhere : You can add your own settings in <URL> . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> . You can change text editing shortcuts by creating a DefaultKeyBinding.dict . See <URL> and <URL> . Related questions : <URL> <URL>
Keep US Extended and use it to type your å . It 's alt + k and then a.
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
UPDATE It looks like this has been broken in Mac OS X 10.9 ( and was n't fixed in 10.9.1 ) This works again in the latest Mac Os X 10.10.1 , and presumably also in 10.10 . Trackpad Three-finger swipe left goes back and forth in Finder , just like in Safari . You do n't need 3rd party software to do this , simply make sure your settings are correct . Go to via Spotlight or Launchpad , navigate to and click the tab . The first option is " Swipe between pages " , which enables swiping in Finder , Chrome etc. . Make sure to choose one of the two options . I 've attached an image showing the screen for you here : Make sure that you 've chosen in the so the two options do n't overrule each other . You also want to make sure there is no checkmark in the . They are mutually exclusive . You can check this in the tab . Magic Mouse If you use a Magic Mouse and want to be able to swipe back and forth in Finder , you have to turn off the and change to either or ( both options enables you to swipe back and forth in Finder when using both fingers .
Chrome does n't call <URL> and instead wrote their own keyboard handling routines . Since this is how the program was made , there 's not much of a workaround except to do your typing in a program that calls Apple 's text input libraries and paste the results into Chrome . ( Similar to how Dictionary lookup using Control-Command-D did n't work for several years on Chrome either until the code was updated to call Apple 's SDK for that function ) . You can see this <URL> might apply and also , that Chrome is in the process of removing it 's own spell checker / autocorrect mechanism and shifting to rely on Apple 's implementation : <URL>
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
end question
start question
What properties must an iPhone case have to avoid antenna issues ?
A piece of non-conductive scotch tape is all that is required to prevent your skin from bridging the gap in the metal band and changing the impedance of the antennas . As long as your skin does n't short the external metal band , you are good to go , so even extremely thin gloves that are dry would work without any case whatsoever . For more reading , see : PC World : <URL> Apple PR : <URL> Apple Support : <URL> Antenna Engineer Blog : <URL>
Well , some of the costs come from the GSM components that the iPhone has , others come from the production process , which is different . Then there is the amount of RAM is 512 MB for iPhone and 256 MB for the iPod Touch . Also , the iPhone has a compass . The rear cameras are different - 5 Megapixel camera for the iPhone and 0,7 Megapixel for the iPod .
A piece of non-conductive scotch tape is all that is required to prevent your skin from bridging the gap in the metal band and changing the impedance of the antennas . As long as your skin does n't short the external metal band , you are good to go , so even extremely thin gloves that are dry would work without any case whatsoever . For more reading , see : PC World : <URL> Apple PR : <URL> Apple Support : <URL> Antenna Engineer Blog : <URL>
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
Apparently not much these days unless you want to play standard definition content or heavily mod the thing . See here for more info on making it into a useful device for that purpose ( Kodi can be configured to stream media from those services you mentioned ) : <URL>
iCloud backups are incremental . You 'll continue to complete backups when connectivity is restored .
After a quick test , everything but " Call Time : Lifetime " and the statistics under " Time since last full charge " was reset . It only makes sense that the field " Call Time : Lifetime " does n't get reset since it shows the the total physical time the phone was being used to call . If it was restored and set up as a new phone I believe that the setting will then be reset since it will be technically a new life for the phone . Unless AT&amp;T / Verizon keeps track of that data through your number . Then you would change your number to reset that field . Though I would n't be trying that anytime soon .
The only things you absolutely need that is n't already included are : The monitor that you have already identified . A keyboard ; a Mac specific one would make sense , but any PC USB keyboard will do you just need to be careful to use the right settings as the layout will be subtly different A pointing device of some sort . If you are coming from PCs , you may hate Apple mice ( I do ) , but again any PC mouse will work just fine . Having said that , the Magic Trackpad is fantastic . I use one on my iMac and do not use a mouse ever on a Mac any more . Things you do n't not need but are highly recommended would include : A backup drive ! Backup your stuff ! Make it big ( 2x your internal drive at least ) and make it fast ( USB 3 or Thunderbolt if you have too much money ) Things which you might fancy but are n't really needed : A headset/headphones of some sort ( iPhones headphones with the 3 pin jack work fine ) An external DVD reader/writer ( any brand , USB ) USB cup warmers ( any brand ) Novelty stickers ( any brand , except Microsoft Plays for sure ! and Windows license keys )
Yes , the GPS does not need cellular data or cellular service to work . It will get better results when GPS is offline if it can poll the location database and trilateralate from both Wi-Fi and cellular towers , but GPS is generally better than the these secondary sources of location data . The phone should connect to Wi-Fi regularly to keep the location database up to date - perhaps while tethered to your iPhone 5 for optimal results . For most situations it will work almost as if it were connected to cellular data and the cellular data switch was off .
The new iPad , like all iPads , have a combined audio input/output jack , like the iPhone and newer MacBooks . The Genius was correct : Griffin cable should have worked . If it did n't , either the cable or the iPad was faulty . One other possibility is that it was the software . This is n't very likely , but it 's possible that the software you were using had some sort of compatibility issue with the new iPad .
For the first one Press , A quick way : cmd + shift + : A permanent way For the second question , As shown in this picture ,
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
Oddly , the app I favor the most is <URL> due to the elegance , simplicity and design . It is fairly forgiving for novices but the middle ground is very level so as to allow you to improve without getting totally destroyed . If you have a decent strategy , you can get a lot of play in the middle ground as long as you do n't make whoppers of mistakes . I say oddly because it does n't have many bells or whistles to " teach " the game - lacks opening books , training modes , post game analysis or export functionality . It has beauty and simplicity and I find myself actually playing it because it 's gorgeous and I learn more when I play more . <URL> seems to be stronger for learning , but is not nearly as pretty and I 'm not serious enough to want to play it over Deep Green . It has fabulous end game support , databases , move puzzles and hints . It also exports the games and has a discount on the Mac version so you can take your analysis to the computer which probably makes this the best learning program . You can preview the engine and the feel of the UI <URL> to get a sense of the program . The iPhone app plays a lot like the mac app . It 's a 30 day demo and it 's not as massively strong as Fritz and some of the really bonkers engines out there .
Each app is placed in it 's own sandbox which limits the app 's access to files etc. . More info here : <URL>
It depends . Other then testing each individual part , no one could really say . What I 'd do is take the whole thing apart , rinse everything off with water ( distilled would be best , but at this point it probably does n't make a difference ) and clean everything with isopropyl alcohol . Dry everything off and reassemble the iPhone . Try to power it on . If it powers on , take note of what still does n't work and email the Apple ID associated with it ( maybe you could get it back to them and charge a repair fee , they may also just let you keep it and , if they 're VERY trusting , let you use their Apple ID password to take the iCloud lock off of it ) . If not , sell it as-is on eBay , where , depending on the model , you still might get $ 100 + , $ 200 + for it .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
This has been noted on a couple of blogs . The jailbreak screwed up some files . There is a fix which requires you to : ( taken from <URL> Open Cydia and install Open SSH and MobileTerminal Load MobileTerminal and type " su root " ( no quotes ) . Then hit enter . Enter your password . It 's probably " alpine " if you have n't changed it yet . Copy and paste the following script into MobileTerminal sync reboot 5 . Wait for your iPhone to reboot . 6 . Have fun , you 're done . For info on how to jailbreak your iPhone the right way , check out our video . Read more at <URL> )
It would help to understand what exactly are you trying to accomplish ? From what I read I think you want to limit the Smartphone Capability but want to use it for maybe 1 hour a day ? So is this a Data restriction question ? You can always turn off the Cellular data and or restrict what Cell data can be used for . This will allow you to answer phone calls but in order to use any of the Data features of the phone you will need WiFi .
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
No , this is n't possible to do through official channels . The officially unlocked phones are unlocked from the manufacturer ; this is n't possible to do after the phone has been provisioned ( otherwise the iPhone hacking community would be all over this avenue rather than going after security holes in the baseband to achieve the same effect ) . Because if their agreement with AT&amp;T , Apple does not sell these units in the US , and every distributor outside of the US has to agree not to sell the units to US customers .
end question
start question
MacPro - Can the two network interfaces be assigned to ?
Only if the application itself supports this . If it does , it will have config files that allow you to specify either an IP address to bind to , or an interface name to bind to . You would then find out your internal IP address by checking the Network control panel or the interface by checking ifconfig through the terminal . As far as I know .
First , you can only merge pdf if they are not protected , if this is the okay : Open both pdf Enable the sidebar in each windows of Preview , then select " Thumbnails " view Drag &amp; drop the cover ( inside the sidebar ) of one pdf into the sidebar of the other pdf . With this method , you can completely merge two pdf or selectively drag &amp; drop the pages you want to merge to create a completely custom new pdf . You can also extract pages from one pdf still using the same manipulation , but drag &amp; drop to the Desktop .
Should be possible with <URL> , but I 've only personally used it to send audio between two Macs . They have a Windows version as well , though .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
Go for it ! You 'll lose the jail break ( duh ! ) but it 'll restore to a normal state like any other iPhone .
Although that enclosure accepts 12.5 mm drives , those WD Passports have the USB connector built into the drive . They do n't have a standard SATA connector and therefore can not be used in that enclosure .
Was always F4 , as far as I can recall . My 08 keyboard has it printed on the key itself - same layout as this picture Prior to the introduction of the aluminium keyboard in 2007 , there were no icons printed on the keys , so it would be hard to say for certain - but as Snow Leopard was 2009 , it would be unlikely it would be anywhere other than where the printed key indicates on anything later than Leopard , 10.5 , which would have been roughly coincidental to the introduction of that keyboard design . <URL> would appear to support that .
Humm , this is weird , mine does ok , but I never tried with both on iTunes ... always one of a time . I did found several forum discussions regarding the out of sync with Nike Plus , and this is from Aug 26th and already have 8 pages : o it describes plenty of out of sync workouts ( maybe it 's an app bug ) <URL> probably is a good idea to post on <URL> as well .
On one - click the Wi-Fi symbol in the menu bar and create a network . On the other - join that network . This is covered in detail in the Mac help under " Create a computer-to-computer network " . You can also just connect them with Ethernet , FireWire but Wi-Fi is faster to set up and tear down .
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
I saw this link , but instructions are outdated and does not work on El Capitan <URL> Trying to find a solution myself for El Capitan
You can try this one-liner : Let it run for a while , then hit Control-C . It will print a summary of the number of bytes read from sockets , distributed among processes . For a more detailed view , replace by . Or just to see a count of socket reads , replace by . Disclaimer : I have only tried this on Lion , but AFAIK no great changes in dtrace-ability have occured between SL and Lion .
Yes . In almost all cases , OS X software is hardware-agnostic ( as long as the hardware comes from Apple ) .
This is hard to guess , as you can imagine . If the machine had kernel panics the usual ( but not only ) suspects are RAM chips . You can probably try new RAM ( google for OWC , CRUCIAL , etc. ) . The battery can be replaced at an Apple Store ( of course you 'll have to pay for it ) . The Hard Drive could be a problem too , so maybe if you had to replace it , adding an SSD instead would boost the performance . In the end , there 's little else you can replace without having to ditch the entire motherboard , and that 's probably not worth the cost outside the warranty . Running a Linux ( more tolerant sometimes with dubious RAM/Hardware in general ) is a decent alternative . Ubuntu ( among others ) is a decent OS for casual users .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
When creating the Folder action you will have to add all sub folder in folder action set up and chose the folder action for each .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
If you mount the share using terminal you can assign the mount point to a local directory . Source : Macworld Mac OS X Hints : <URL> create a directory -- the mountpoint -- where the contents of the mounted server will appear . The mount command should be more or less familar : The <URL> provide complete documentation .
Uncheck the box : I found it unnatural , too , since they flipped it . I think they 're going for consistency between iPads and mice .
You should be able to filter your firewall logs down to requests originating from your computer/your phone 's local IP address , and look it it 's outgoing requests . I 'm pretty sure all that app download traffic takes place over bog standard HTTPS , 443/tcp . Ensure all apps have stopped running , open App Store , move over to the Updates category , wait for all traffic ( app image requests and the like ) to die down , then tap update . The next series of requests should fail , and you should have the reason relevant to your own configuration .
end question
start question
How do I transfer data and settings from one Apple Watch to another ?
iMore provides a <URL> to restore an old backup onto a new watch that I have summarized below . The first step is to unpair the old watch from your phone . As part of that , a backup of your watch 's information and settings will be created on the phone . Next , pair your new watch following the normal procedures - launch the Apple Watch app , tap Start Pairing , and align the watch in the viewfinder . On the following screen it will state " Your Apple Watch Is Paired . " From here , tap on Restore from Backup , and you should be given the option of the backup you made when unpairing the old watch . Tap on that . You will then need to agree with the terms and conditions , as well as enter your Apple ID username and password . Tap through the remaining screens of setting options , including a passcode , and finally it will begin the process of restoring your backup , which may take several minutes . Once the restore is complete , you will have your new watch set up with all your settings and data .
Apple Watch bands fit the watch based on its size , either 38MM or 42MM , and are interchangeable between both series , however at the present time Apple only sells the Apple Watch , either series , with a band . There is no SKU available in the computer to order without a band . This information is current as of this moment having just contacted Apple sales directly , at the local Apple Store , seeking to purchase an Apple Watch without a band .
iOS devices allow you to use different Apple IDs for different purposes . You can set the Apple ID to be associated with Messages in Settings > Messages .
There is no limit and having more is not necessarily better . Having all your devices registered under one Apple ID has the benefit of having all your purchases pushed to them without having to manage multiple accounts . So your wife can enjoy an app on her iPhone 4 just the same as you can enjoy the same app on your iPad 2 , without needing to purchase the app a second time ( once for reach device ) , or constantly logging in and out of various Apple IDs to install and update . I find it is always better to pool your purchases to one account and register your devices under that single account . Having multiple Apple IDs requires that one micro-manage each account ( iTunes will only check for updates for the current Apple ID ) , which can be bothersome at the best of times and a nightmare at the worst of times . One advantage of having separate Apple IDs , however , is that each account belongs to its respective owner and can be registered to their own payment methods . But if you share your finances , that is of little value to you . iCloud is bound to its respective Apple ID , so if you have just the one , all the features of iCloud would permeate through any device registered to that account . That means if you downloaded an app on your iPad 2 , it would appear on your wife 's iPhone 4 . You would also share documents , pictures , music , etc. ( anything supported by iCloud and expressly enabled by you ) across all your devices as well -- email as well . iCloud would essentially unify them and their content . Multiple Apple IDs are not required . You may also find this article on <URL> ( although somewhat dated when iCloud launches ) .
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
The city that shows is the one at the top of the list in the World Clock watch app and the World Clock section in the Clock app on my iPhone ( which can be set the iPhone app : click Edit and then drag ) .
GoodReader ca n't do this and GoodReader suppport is unaware of a product that can , since they operate in this space I assume there is n't an iOS app for this . GoodReader can display PDF files , add annotations to them , and save those annotations to that specific file . Unfortunately it 's not able to edit the content of a PDF file , merge files or create new PDF files . On a computer , the software that does this is Adobe Acrobat Pro . Unfortunately I ca n't recommend an iOS app that can perform these functions .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Does the migration assistant work well across OS versions and CPU architectures ? Yes , this will work just fine . The best way to do it is to get a firewire cable to connect the two iMacs , boot the older iMac into <URL> , and let the installer on the new iMac perform the migration . I believe that Rosetta is n't installed by default , but when you try to launch a Power PC app you will be prompted to install it .
You do n't need 3rd party software . The OS X utility pmset allows you to schedule sleep/wake taking day of week into effect . I have n't tested it , but it appears you can not schedule multiple repeating events on different times . You 'll need to use cron to complete this task . from man pmset
Technically it would be possible to trick the MacBook Pro to think another device is actually a different device to what it is ( e.g. that a connected MacBook is in fact an iPhone ) . However , this would not achieve the goal of charging one MacBook from another MacBook . According to Apple : MacBook Pro ( 15-inch , Late 2016 ) and MacBook ( 13-inch , Late 2016 , Four Thunderbolt 3 Ports ) can power two devices that use up to 15 watts , and two more devices that use up to 7.5 watts . It does n't matter which side of your MacBook Pro that they 're connected to -- power is delivered on a first-come , first-served basis . Source : <URL> MacBooks typically require in the range of 55 watts to 90 watts of power in order to charge ( depending on the model , e.g. the late-2016 13 " MacBook Pros require 60 watts , while the 15 " models require 85 watts ) . As a result , the amount of power being delivered from the MBP via it 's ThunderBolt ports would not be enough to charge another MacBook .
The short answer is no . The reasons are numerous , but the first is that anything compiled to run on a device can not be run in the simulator because the processor architecture is different . The simulator is simulating a device , not emulating a device . Apps run in the simulator are intel x86 binaries , while apps that run on a device are compiled for some version of the ARM processor .
<URL> should allow you to copy the music from any iOS device ( jailbroken or not ) onto a Windows or Mac computer . See <URL> support article for more relevant information .
As far as I can tell its just means as long as it 's connected via bluetooth and in range . There is n't a Touch ID scanner on the watch or anything like that so I do n't think that it forms an knid of " signature " to you .
This process assumes that iCloud is not enabled . It is possible to update apps on the device without doing so in iTunes . For this to work you will need to have enabled automatic downloads . If you sync your iPad with iTunes without transfering purchases you coukld end up with older apps and losing the updates . With iCloud there is no need for you to sync with iTunes , so if a device is plugged in iTunes would assume that you do not use iCloud and will transfer all the updated apps to the computer . All in all it is more of a safety precaution if you are already using iCloud .
If you backed your iPhone up and saved it to iCloud , you can do the following : Before you do it , Make sure to backup the iPod ! On your iOS device , go to Settings > General > Software Update . If a newer version of iOS is available , follow the onscreen instructions to download and install it . Make sure you have a recent backup to restore from . On your iOS 8 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . On your iOS 7 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage &amp; Backup > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . For information about backing up manually now , see Back up your iOS device to iCloud . If you do n't see a backup you expected to be there , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Go to Settings > General > Reset , then tap " Erase all content and settings . " In the Setup Assistant , proceed to " Set up your device , " tap Restore from a Backup , then sign in to iCloud . Proceed to " Choose backup , " then choose from a list of available backups in iCloud . For help deciding which backup to restore from , including information about restoring from another device 's backup , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Source : <URL> However , this will delete all the data on the iPod and put the iPhone data in . Ignore the iOS 7 and iOS 8 . They are there for distinguishment .
rsync is a good way to go ( scp is pretty much the same with fewer features ) . You may want to use the option , which will enable zlib compression . Depending on how fast your drives/computer are , it may be faster than sending uncompressed , i.e. if your network link is saturated . You may also want the archive mode option , which will preserve symlinks , permissions , and creation/modification times , as well as copy directories recursively . Depending on what you 're copying you might want which preserves extended attributes and mac resource forks . Finally , will show you progress information .
You can bring your Apple Watch back to normal functioning mode by pressing and holding the side button , the same way that you do when you wish to power it on . This command will only work if you plugged the Watch in , or if there is sufficient battery juice available .
The option is hidden behind a long/hard press - so not easily discoverable : Tap on the Activity app from your Apple Watch 's Home screen . Swipe left until you see the Move ring . Press firmly on the screen . Tap on Change Move Goal . Adjust your move goal to whatever you 'd like and tap Update . Source : <URL> The calorie goal is the only configurable goal .
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
end question
start question
How to change the default behaviour of the fullscreen/maximize button ?
Use <URL> , a free open source app that has a bunch of handy window management shortcuts . While it does n't change the default behavior of the green button , it makes it superfluous for me to do so as I can do everything using keyboard shortcuts without using the mouse . For full screen , press : cmd + option + F It also has a bunch of options for 1/2 screen , 1/3 screen , top half , bottom half , etc. .
Terminal - > Preferences - > Settings Select a color scheme and click
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
So you went to your Keynote presentation document file and used the Finder to " Show Package Contents " then you deleted the image files you found in there . That would cause problems . Try this : Open a new Keynote document and select the Theme that you want to use as the basis for your presentation . Now do ... Delete all Master Slides that you do n't need . If you need a Master Slide with an image , replace the image with a small place holder image . For example , a JPG file with a solid color . Remove the Back Ground Image from All Remaining master slides , and remove any other unneeded elements from the slides . Click the button at the bottom of the Master Slide editing screen ( which will probably do nothing ) Give it a name such as " Church Music " Now you can create a new presentation using the " Church Music " theme . Your theme will be on the " My Themes " tab of the theme browser . After you save , you can now view the presentation 's Package Contents to make sure that there is no unused items . Keynote will generate a variety of slide previews and other images which you need to keep , but these should be very small . If there is stuff that you really do n't need , you might try re-editing the Themes Master Slides .
On Yosemite : Double click the window top bar ( Like in MS Windows ) or Option-click the green dot in the top left . On older OS X versions : Shift-click the green ( + )
There 's no default application to handle . rar file on Mac OS X . You might want to try <URL> . It can open many format besides rar files . Then once you installed it , open its preferences and select all the file format you want him to manage .
Some tool like <URL> might help here , but it 's probably much more than you asked for .
It can be done , although you need to find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file . The filename is " volume.aiff " and ( for both Mavericks and Yosemite ) it is located in : / System/Library/LoginPlugins / BezelServices.loginPlugin / Contents/Resources Find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file and put it on your Desktop for easy access . Open the Terminal and navigate to the folder containing the sound file : Create a backup of the original file in case you want to reverse the changes : Provide the password when prompted . Now copy in the Mavericks sound file placed on your Desktop : Restart
The shares shown are the one you set up in the Stocks app . Open * Stocks Tap the i on the bottom right corner Delete or add new shares Those will be the ones shown in the notifications screen .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
Go to System Preferences → Printers &amp; Scanners and set Default printer to Last printer used .
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
The button on top is not a power button . It 's a lock button which informs the OS to turn off the display to save power and to prevent accidental touch input , but the rest of the device keeps running . Apps continue to run for a short while after the display and touchscreen is powered off , from a few seconds for most apps , to several minutes , and even longer for a few specific types of apps , such as background music players and VOIP apps under iOS 4 and newer . Some GPS logging apps can also continue to run in the background as well . Some newer networking apps request a few minute to complete operations in the background , but not all older apps could or did . So it depends on the iOS version , the particular app and version of that app .
Macports select can change it back . The current macports does it using the port select command - older versions had python_select To see the possible pythons run From that list choose the one you want and change to it e.g.
One way is to use <URL> . I tried using it and it worked smoothly . However , Hazel is n't free ( $ 25 ) . The second solution is to use <URL> which is part of Mac OS X. However , using Automator did n't quite work . Some of the mp4 files did open , but for unknown reason some did n't . Also I 'm not sure if Automator has to open the files as soon as they are downloaded , or there is a time frame which it could take to open them . Maybe some one more experiences with Automator could elaborate on this . Here is a how to create and use an AppleScript to open . lyx files : Open AppleScript file named : copy the file to Note : I did n't have this folder , so I created both and Now , go to in Finder , right click on Downloads folder , click List should appear and contain Now you 're good to go - whenever you 'll download lyx file it should open automatically when ever you download it . NOTE : If you want to open another file type , simply change NOTE II : If you want several types use : Enjoy !
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
In Lion and Snow Leopard , you can create a network from the AirPort menu and choose whatever SSID you please . The same dialog should be available from the network preference pane in System Preferences if you prefer that avenue .
In my experience , the cover photo is simply the first photo in the album . When you 're within an album , hit the button in the upper-right corner to manipulate the photos ; then tap and hold a photo until it " inflates , " at which point you can drag it to move it around . You 'll just have to be happy with your album cover being the first photo in the album . ( Edited to clarify the tap-and-hold gesture . )
The link is broken - please look at some upvoted answers below as well Assuming you are talking about the reference dictionary for looking up the meanings of words ( NOT spellchecking/autocorrection ) , you can not modify that on an iOS device . But in OS X you can add other modules . This page provides some info : <URL>
end question
start question
What is the keyboard shortcut to insert a comment during track changes in Word ?
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
iTunes does n't offer this functionality natively : <URL> always comes in handy in these situations . In this case , however , there 's no easy solution , because there is no script that does that . You would need a combination of three scripts , which should work and should be fairly easy as soon as you have installed all three of them : Get <URL> and run it on the tracks you would like to number . This will add track numbers to the beginning of the track name . Run <URL> on the tracks , which will set the track tags based on the number you 've added in step 1 . Use <URL> to remove the track numbers added to the name . As far as I can tell this is the easiest way to accomplish that . Of course you could also write your own AppleScript which does it in one step . And do n't forget to create a backup , just in case .
Will do it for you . Then you can edit the individual keys from there . The details are extracted from : <URL> You can modify the above file as per : <URL> However note the file is binary and you can not use a text editor , you have to use the command , or the command . can be used if you know the individual keys you want to modify . is more user friendly .
would close all untitled documents without saving them . You could close the current window with . It would close all tabs in some applications that use tabs though . It 's easier to just press ⌘ W ⌫ in my opinion . You can disable the animation for showing the sheets with .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
See this : then set your shortcut If you have conflict a small yellow triangle will appear guiding you to the conflict shortcut . ( disable or change it ) If the Spotlight appears , disable its shortcut .
By default , no , there 's no keyboard shortcut to activate Finder . <URL> can do this though :
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
Something like should do the trick . It is plain vanilla unix .
I 've written an AppleScript script which toggles the Zoom style : You can use Keyboard Maestro or any other script launching app to run this script on a keyboard shortcut .
Well , of course , it was a problem with me . The search results only appear after having typed the whole query and pressed enter , which is a different behavior than the single word search where the results are updated as you type . Somebody had a similar problem <URL> .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
This feature is still present ( I 'm using 10.7.3 and it works for me ) . Go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check the keyboard shortcuts . In the list of ' Keyboard &amp; Text Input ' shortcuts you should see ' Move focus to next window ' ⌘ + ` . Make sure it is checked , and it should work .
Option-Command-Eject is the system-standard key to put the machine to sleep . If you want to do more than sleep , you can use this preference pane to fine-tune the sleep or hibernate behavior : <URL> Edit : More information about sleep , hibernate , and more on the Mac : <URL>
Reminders You can create a service using the Automator : Open Automator.app Select Service For Reminders : Add action Ask for Text to prompt for a new To Do Add action New Reminders Item Save Service Create Shortcut in : System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Keyboard & #x 2192 ; Keyboard Shortcuts & #x 2192 ; Services & #x 2192 ; Text Notes See Mohamad Elwan 's answer for notes
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
To switch quickly to the Address Bar use : Mac/OS X : ⌘ + L Win/Linux : Ctrl + L
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
I 've found a method that works . I noticed that double-clicking on a dock icon will switch to a full screen application 's space , even if " When switching to an application , switch to a Space with open windows for the application " is turned off in Mission Control 's system preferences . It 's possible to make an AppleScript that utilizes this , even if the dock is hidden : Save this to an scpt file , and then bind it to a keystroke using an application like BetterTouchTool . Since it uses OS X 's accessibility API it will require whichever application is invoking it to have permission to remote control the computer ( in System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > " Privacy " tab > Accessibility ) . This does have one limitation that I 'm aware of , which is that it only consistently works if the application has no other open windows on other spaces . Otherwise this will toggle between the various spaces that the application 's windows are occupying . Fortunately my use case involves an application that does n't have any other open windows so it satisfies my requirements .
You ca n't ! You ca n't insert a section break in a layout document because layout documents do n't have sections ; each page it its own section . See <URL> In a page layout document , each page is one section . You can use the predefined sections as they are , or you can modify or remove them one page at a time .
end question
start question
Is there an app that creates a system-wide audio equalizer ?
Check out <URL> , it 's quite awesome . Boom boosts the volume of your Mac at all levels . From boosting the volume of your music on iTunes , it boom the YouTube videos playing on your web browser . You can now boost the volume of any application playing sound or video like QuickTime , Podcasts , Skype , iChat , DVD Player , Garageband , iMovie and so on .
I do n't think it exists , since Quartz provides limited input for the iTunes track , and mostly real-time . Quartz is the graphic layer of Mac OS X. Quartz Composer is a tool used to easily create animations , transitions , filters , visualizers , etc that work with this technology . As far as I know it is the only way of making an iTunes visualizer . When you attempt to create a new visualizer in the latest version , you get a pretty straight-forward of the input you 'll get from iTunes : Here ´ s a closer look : There is no file input of any kind . Not even the filename/path , and even if there were Quartz are graphic libraries , thus it 's ability for processing data , including sound waveforms is limited . All this input is received in real time , sent by iTunes : Quartz can only receive the numbers/text it is being given in real time , but not actually call any read operations on the sound file , and decode it to a sound wave . I 'll have to say , at least with Quartz Composer , no , it is not quite achievable . I do n't think you can create iTunes visualizers in any other way , and I have n't seen a visualizer with such functionality . Hope it helps ! Kevin
I have this in my bash_profile : It uses Applescript ( which you do n't want ) to change the terminal profile . Replace the and with your own color scheme names . When you use the ssh command , the macro changes the shell theme , then runs ssh . When you exit the remote session , it changes it back . Very cool ! I tried using the shell color escape sequences like and but the remote session can and does reset them . This works great for me .
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
No , there 's no official , Apple-approved replacement for the lock screen . If you really want to use Android Lock , you must jailbreak and then install it via Cydia . Un-jailbroken phones can only do what Apple allows , which is to run one app at a time . Android Lock is different because what it does is to modify the basic system of the phone , which Apple does n't allow . And that is the reason why such apps or modifications are only available on jailbroken phones ( through Cydia , the jailbroken appstore ) .
You can use Automator . Open Automator . Choose Application from the templates . Add a Ask for Text action . Tick ' Require an Answer ' Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Open the actions options options . Tick ' Show this action when workflow runs ' Add a Lopp Action . Control + click on the Loop Actions Title bar and select ' ignore input ' From the Loop Actions 's drop down menus , select ' Ask to Continue ' and Use the ' current results as input ' Save and run . You will then be prompted to enter your text . Then after you ok that you will be prompted to Choose you font . Use the font size to determine the image size . example 64 in Helvetica Bold gives me about 46x77 The same font but at size 300 gives me 177x360 . In each case I am only using 1 character . If you want to do it from ' Selection ' Open Automator . Choose Services from the templates . Set the ' Sevices Receives input ' to : rich text * and in * any application Add a Create Banner Image from Text action . Tick ' Use text input as image filename ' . Set the Text Style drop down menu to : ' Use Style of Rich Text input ' . Optionally you can add a ' Reveal in Finder ' Action The Size is set by what ever the original fonts are . To use the Service . You can select some text , and control click to get a contextual menu . Listed is the services sub menu . Under this you should find your new service that will run on the selected text .
<URL> [ iTunes link ] from <URL> . According to <URL> , it integrates with Google Docs and lets you use Google Docs OCR to convert scans into editable text files on your Google account .
Have you tried setting the track number in iTunes and then syncing again ?
<URL> will let you add custom URLs ( including ShoutCast server URLs ) to your bookmarks list and stream from them . It will also keep your playlists in sync across multiple devices , record streams for , find local streams using your current location and more . You but it <URL> . And when you 're at your Mac , you can use their browser-based desktop app to keep listening and access your bookmarks . To add a ShoutCast server as a custom URL use : Where : is the IP or host name of the machine hosting the ShoutCast server is the port where ShoutCast is broadcasting on the server is the name of the stream from ShoutCast is the number of the stream Once you add the custom stream to your bookmarks it should be available from any TuneIn Radio application or their web app .
<URL> Looks like you 'll need to get a demo copy of Omnigraffle to open them . Photoshop wo n't , and I 'm not seeing other Mac standard software that will . Also ( Photoshop format ) : <URL>
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
A common way to work around the cross-border restrictions of the iTunes store is by using pre-paid iTunes cards . These are often available on eBay and you can redeem them in the iTunes store for the country of origin ( assuming you want US items , you need to buy a pre-paid card from the US . )
You can pause the download while it 's in the " loading " stage by tapping the app icon ( tap again to resume ) , but I could n't find a way to actually cancel the download .
In Canada this is not legal . <URL> but private copies are for your own use , they can not be given away . There 's some contrast here with CDs that 's interesting . With physical media like tapes or CDs the " owner " is the person in possession of the original copy . This definition made it legit , at least in Canada , to borrow original materiel , copy it , and then return it . The levy on the CD-R covered the royalty payment for the copy ( in theory ) and you were n't obligated to destroy copies if the original left your possession . With downloaded content you ca n't give away the original in the same sense as physical media . Lending downloaded media and non-private copying of downloaded media are essentially indistinguishable actions . Some legal alternatives in Canada : Buy all the songs in physical format and make your mix tape from those Buy her the tracks as gifts via iTunes Buy you and her a month subscription to <URL> and make her a shared playlist there Downloaded content has taken all the romance out of making mix tapes , that 's for certain .
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
MS Entourage <URL> , I do n't know if its replacement ( MS Outlook ) still does . Either way , you 'd need MS Office to use it , which probably is n't what you want . <URL> also suggests a way to achieve something similar to it with Mail.app and Safari , but I have n't tried it to see how well it works .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
end question
start question
How do I add Wikipedia as a search provider for the Safari search bar ?
There 's a plugin for Safari called Glims that lets you add different search engines ( including Wikipedia ) to the search bar among other tweaks . You can read about and download it <URL> . <URL> a post on someone 's blog that details how to install it and set your search engines to what you want . Hope that helps !
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
I like the free <URL> extension . Visible only when you 're hovering over a link , it shows where things lead , but does other stuff too . Like shortener expansion and favicon previews . It 's got lots of built-in themes you can use to customize the appearance .
From my experience , and at least with Sparrow for iPhone 1.3.2 build 507.11 , All does not refer to FROM+TO+SUBJECT , but all available fields , including the email body .
Like suggested <URL> , you can drag the search text from the URL bar into some plain text view . However , one can also directly drag it into a ( rich text ) email or chat message . Or into Google 's search field which is conveniently close to Safari 's location bar : ( In previous versions , you could <URL> ; in 2016 versions just drag the search text like shown above . ) After dragging into Google 's search field , the additional search text is already selected and focussed , ready for Command + C : ( In earlier versions , Safari 's location bar <URL> , and the URL in Google 's search input will be gray , not blue . In those versions one could first hit Tab after searching to go into Google 's search field , hit Delete to clear it , and then drag the icon . After that , the search field is ready for Command + C as well . ) The Share button to the right of the location bar can also share the URL , but probably only when messaging has been configured : As an aside : the Google URLs include a lot of irrelevant things , specific to your browser , language , etc. . Often , it 's enough to use <URL> , or for image search <URL> , but then one needs to change the spaces into plus-characters to ensure it 's clickable . ( And one also needs to <URL> other special characters . ) It would be nice if Google would provide some bare sharing link on its own site .
Do n't use Fullscreen . Maximise instead . Opt/click the green dot , top left , instead of just clicking it . Or double-click the title bar .
Searching in a page has been added on to the Google ( or whatever you use ) search facility . Just tap the search field and enter your search term . Instead of launching the search , scroll down to the bottom of the suggested searches and there will be a section labeled " On This Page " . Tapping " Find " _____ " " will launch the in-page search feature .
This should do it : <URL> Quote : Using Property List Editor If you are using Property List Editor , start by going to your user folder and then navigate to Library/Preferences . In the Preferences folder find the file named " com.apple.finder.plist . " Double-clicking on this file should open it up in Property List Editor . If not , just right-click on it and choose " Open With - Property List Editor . " Once the file is open , scroll down the list to " SearchViewSettings . " Click the disclosure triangle next to it , and then do the same for " ListViewSettings " and then " columns . " Now you should see a list of all the available columns . Click the triangle next to the column you want to add , i.e. size , and then check the box next to " visible . " Once you are done , save the file by pressing Command-S . Finally , you will need to restart the Finder for the changes to take effect . The easiest way to do this is top hold down the Control and Option keys , click on the Finder icon in the Dock and choose " Relaunch . " Now just press Command-F to bring up a search window and you should have your extra columns enabled .
Simply the answer is : you can not change because of the update
It is a feature called activation lock <URL> I would suggest changing your Apple ID password to something simple then after about 5 minutes change it back
You can use Boolean operators : Use Boolean searches : Use Boolean operators such as AND , OR , and NOT . For example , to search for messages that contain " yosemite " and " yellowstone " but not " teton , " type " yosemite AND yellowstone NOT teton " or " yosemite AND yellowstone - teton . " You must type Boolean operators in uppercase . Souce : <URL>
If you search using Spotlight ( from the Home screen ) , you can use and qualifiers , as well as flag and unread status . From Apple 's <URL> page : Examples : Flagged june 2013 Searches for all flagged messages from june 2013 , as well as for messages containing these words Unread last week from:@icloud.com Searches all unread messages from last week where the sender 's email ends with @icloud . com , as well as messages containing these words Vip read yesterday Searches all read messages from contacts marked as VIPs , as well as messages containing these words to : appleseed monday Searches all messages sent on Monday to a contact named " Appleseed " , or an email address starting with appleseed , as well as messages containing these words Note that these examples mention " messages containing these words " . A note above the examples states that to search message bodies , you must use Mail 's search function , not Spotlight , but these examples are for Spotlight . After testing , it appears these work in Mail 's search field as well as Spotlight . In addition to the above , you can use to limit to messages containing attachments , and Mail appears to search within attachments .
So far , it 's not a feature of iOS . You need to a find ( web - ) app solution : e.g. . <URL>
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
It looks like this iPod does n't have this feature : it 's not mentioned in the manual ( <URL> ) - even in the index . However , you can go to all items starting with a certain letter . From the manual ( on page 20 ) : If the list you 're browsing has an index , drag your finger down the index to show a large letter superimposed over the list . When you reach the letter you want , lift your finger .
For Spotlight there is n't really a difference between AquaTerm , Terminal and iTerm when searching for " term " . All three names match the search term , there is no such notion as better Spotlight " learns " your preferences over time . So if you keep searching for " term " and then always select " Terminal.app " as result it will reorder the result list over time
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
Syncing Google Contacts via CardDAV will allow you to store the relationship information in your address book entry . See <URL> for instructions .
end question
start question
Can I upgrade to the Lion Mail app alone , without upgrading to Lion in general ?
These apps ( and the full screen mode ) require APIs that are not available on versions prior to Lion . Even if one could purchase Mail separately , it would n't run .
The <URL> summarizes the most important new features . If it 's " really any better " or not , depends entirely on your personal taste : I do like Mail.app 's new list view where the list appears as a side bar , with chunks of message text in addition to the subject/sender information . You can further unclutter the interface by hiding the Mailboxes tree when you do n't need it . The search feature has also got better : things that used to require " Smart Mailboxes " ( multi-condition filters ) you can now do with a quick search in the search bar . Apple also seems to have stolen some good ideas from Google Mail -- like Thread view , which is activated in Mail for Lion by default , and groups together messages that belong to the same thread . A thread shows up only once in the message list , showing the number of messages . It 's very convenient to move/delete a whole thread in this way . Also a neat feature copied from Google : the quoted text of original emails in replies is hidden by default , but you can unfold it by clicking " show more " ( with a nice visual effect of unfolding paper ) . However , if you love Thunderbird 's special features , Mail.app is probably not for you . It 's missing the Thunderbird 's superb Tabs feature , i.e. you can only view one email folder / search result at a time ( this might actually bring me to consider switching to Thunderbird again ) . Personally , I like Mail.app because it 's much better integrated with the other OS X apps I use , such as Address Book , iCal and iChat . Example : I get an email from a colleague , and if she 's currently online in GoogleTalk/Jabber or Bonjour ( local network chat ) , a green dot appears next to her name directly in Mail . Ca n't have that with Thunderbird ... Other example : dates , times , addresses and phone numbers are recognized automatically in email text and can be added in one click as iCal event or to complete an Address Book entry . Also , I 'm not sure whether Thunderbird 's email database is indexed and searchable with Spotlight . Would n't want to miss this feature : searching for an email by subject or even message text without opening Mail in the first place .
edit : See this as the behaviour has changed : <URL> There are two groups of people . Those who wish to have dual displays and have closing the lid go into sleep and people who wish to disable the monitor display , close the lid and use the external monitor as if you had ' docked ' with it . Previously , if you wished to switch from the macbook to an external monitor entirely then you had to perform the following to put the laptop into clamshell mode : Make sure the computer is plugged in to an outlet using the AC power adapter . Connect a USB keyboard and mouse to your computer . With the computer turned on connect the Apple portable ( using the appropriate Apple adapter if necessary ) to the appropriate port on the external display or projector and turn the display or projector on . Once your computer 's Desktop appears on the external display , close the computer 's lid . Once the lid is closed , wake the computer up by either clicking your mouse button or by pressing a key on your external keyboard . source : <URL> So to put the machine in clamshell mode required you to put it to sleep and wake it back up again . As far as user experience goes , that is somewhat jarring . As you have the other options to put the machine to sleep , it seems very likely that this change will remain . Right now , there is no way to alter this behaviour .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
Removing CSS3 blur filters seemed to fix the issue . I just went through almost every single file and line until Safari 6.0.2 stopped crashing . Nevertheless , I still have no idea why a single line of CSS3 , , was causing these unexpected crashed .
OK , after twiddling different combinations , I found a solution that works ( at least on Mac OS X 9.5 Mavericks ) . 1 ) Open the app in question ( e.g. TextEdit ) . 2 ) Click . Note that there is also a . Clicking this general one does n't help ; click the app-specific one . 3 ) Open and set to . Note : While this keeps the minimized-items section of exposé clear of recent items , it also unfortunately disables access to recent items in most other places ( e.g. the menubar or dock ) . Boo Apple : <URL>
You can disable it through Terminal with the following command : It can be re-enabled with : With OS X 10.10 Yosemite or 10.11 El Capitan , you can go to System Preferences → Mission Control and switch Dashboard to off .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
Of course . In adding features , the behavior of previous features changes , not always for the better . If you find features that were present in Lion but missing in Mountain Lion , please edit this answer to add your contributions to this list . Mountain Lion drops support for some models of Macs supported by Lion . Clicking the top right corner no longer triggers Spotlight ( Spotlight 's menubar icon is still present , adjacent to the new Notification Center icon ) . The battery indicator in the menubar will <URL> . <URL> is included , but that app alone no longer provides X11 functionality . When the user first runs X11.app -- or an app that requires X11 -- a <URL> guides the user to Apple 's article <URL> about XQuartz , which provides the functionality . Mail.app and Safari.app drop support for RSS Feeds .
The cheapest way to upgrade seems to be to buy and install Snow Leopard ( <URL> ) and then download and install Lion from the App Store ( <URL> ) . This totals to just under $ 60 . The other alternative is buying Lion on a USB sick . It 's <URL> . According to the page , Apple seems to want you to buy Snow Leopard before using the USB installer ( although you should be fine skipping SL technically ) , making this even more expensive . If you really want to have a physical USB disk with Lion , you can make your own either before or after you install using instructions you can easily find here ( on Ask Different ) or elsewhere on the Internet .
Quit Mail , edit the . mailsignature file with a text editor changing the HTML to whatever you like then right click the file in Finder and select " Get Info " then tick the " Locked " checkbox . This prevents Mail from resetting the file to the original version and it uses your version .
<URL> currently says : " Note for Lion users : There is no official release supporting Mac OS X 10.7 yet , but you can test the <URL> if you like . " I usually do n't upgrade to a new major version of OS X until MacPorts has released their first official support for it . I agree with Jerry Jacobs that you should probably back up your hierarchy before attempting . Then you could try doing to see if that upgrades you from 1.9.2 ( or whatever ) to the 2.0.0 release candidate . If it does , then you can try . I would n't try doing a on Lion without at least being on the 2.0.0 release candidate of MacPorts .
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
I think you should be fine . I upgraded to Lion on a Mac Pro that has a RAID 0 . While the OS is installed to an SSD , not RAID , Lion still detected the RAID just fine . That 's obviously a different scenario than what you have , but as the software RAID is handled at a higher level than the OS , I think you should be fine . Obviously , have a backup ready to go just in case , but my guess is that your upgrade should go smoothly .
You can change terminal only with this one command to write a new preference for that specific app . This is general , so of course , substitute safari or quicktimeplayerX or whatever in the portion of the command as needed . This setting switches the default save behavior upon quitting that one app . You 'll find many of the other apps that work well with this setting by <URL> . Of course , you should issue this command after closing all windows and then quitting the application to ensure the settings are read the next time Terminal starts .
According to <URL> and <URL> , there are a number of things you should do before upgrading . Make sure your computer will actually run Mountain Lion . <URL> is a list of all the Macs that will not support Mountain Lion . Run Software Update . Go to the Apple menu > Software Update and make sure you have all the current updates installed . Make sure that you are at least running Snow Leopard 10.6.8 ( as required <URL> ) . Make sure you have enough space on your drive . Mountain Lion requires 8GB of space , so make sure you at least have that amount free ( preferably more though ) . If you do n't have the space required , you can use a disk visualizer such as <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) or <URL> ( free ) or use <URL> to remove old , unused applications . More detailed information on that is available from <URL> Check that all your applications wil run on Mountain Lion . <URL> is the best place to check . It has a status indicator , and a feature list of what feature the application supports Repair disk permissions and disk . If you are running Snow Leopard , start from the install disc and open Disk Utility . If you are running Lion , shut down and restart while holding Command ⌘ + R ( restart into the Recovery partition ) . In Disk Utility , click on your main hard drive and then click " Repair Permissions " . When that 's done , click " Repair Disk " . Thanks to <URL> that repairing permissions before an install is not necessary . " You do n't need to repair disk permissions prior to installing Mac OS X over a previously-installed OS . The installer will do this automatically . " <URL> Backup your computer . This is the most important step . If something goes wrong while installing Mountain Lion , you want to have a backup to go back to . Also , if for whatever reason you want to revert to Lion , backing up your computer will make it a million times easier to revert . The Tech Scoop recommends using Disk Utility to backup your computer . Lifehacker recommends using either Time Machine or <URL> to backup your computer . My preference is Carbon Copy Cloner , freeware software for cloning a hard drive . If you want to use the other options , check out the links above . Open Carbon Copy Cloner , select the source and the target and click " Clone " . Wait for it to backup your computer ... If you 've completed all the above steps , your Mac is ready for Mountain Lion ! Go to the App Store and install Mountain Lion .
The built-in application is called Grab . You can find it under the Utilities folder in Applications . You can also use keyboard shortcuts to take screen shots . Here 's a quick guide from <URL> : In Mac OS X , you can use simple keyboard shortcuts to do all sorts of things , including capturing images of what 's on your Mac screen . For example , you can take a screen shot of your entire screen by holding down the Command and Shift keys and pressing a 3 . If you hold down the Command and Shift keys and press 4 , Mac OS X turns the cursor into crosshairs you can use to select whatever portion of your display you 'd like to capture in a screen shot . If you immediately hit the Spacebar after typing Command-Shift-4 , Mac OS X replaces those crosshairs with a little camera . Using the camera , you can take a screen shot of the Dock , the entire menu bar , a single open menu , the desktop , or any open window .
64-bit apps have been fully supported since Leopard ( OS X v10 .5 ) , and 64-bit non-GUI programs since 10.3 . The only thing 10.6 added was that Apple included a 64-bit kernel ( which is a completely separate thing ) , and included 64-bit code in ( almost ) all of the programs they ship with the OS . OS X uses a " fat " binary format , which allows a single program to include multiple CPU-architecture versions of itself ; when it 's run , the OS picks the " best " version of the program , and runs that . For instance , on a 64-bit capable Intel Mac , it 'd look for a 64-bit Intel version first ; if that was n't available , it 'd look for a 32-bit Intel version ; if that was n't available , it 'd look for a 32-bit PowerPC version and run that under the Rosetta emulation/translation system . Net result : many of your programs are probably already 64-bit capable , and have been running in that mode for a while now . Some may not be , in which case they 'll keep running just fine in 32-bit mode . It 's all remarkably transparent . If you want to know which of your programs support 64-bit mode , run the System Profiler utility , and select Software - > Applications from the sidebar ; it 'll list all the programs it can find , along with whether they 're Intel-only , PowerPC only , or Universal ( both ) , and whether they have Intel 64-bit support . You can also use Finder 's Get Info on a program ; if it has an " Open on 32-bit mode " option , that program includes both 32 - and 64-bit versions of itself ( and that option will let you override the OS 's ideal of the " best " version ) . Now , to answer your more direct question : I do n't know about Chrome , but Firefox version 3.x comes in a 32-bit only binary ; version 4 comes with both 32 - and 64-bit . Either one will work fine .
Not presently . iOS multitasking however is quite different than say the multitasking in Android or Mac OS X . The app unless it specifically is using one of the 7 methods to run in the background is " frozen " and wo n't consume any resources until it 's brought back to the forefront . Essentially the fast app switching feature as part of iOS 4.0 is a large part of why you saw so many apps being updated to work with iOS 4.0 multitasking .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
end question
start question
Is Voice Control still present in Siri supported devices ?
Voice Control is still available on the iPhone 4S , unless you have enabled Siri in the iPhone preferences ( listed under the menu ) . If Siri is disabled , holding the Home button will still launch the " classic " voice control , which does work offline , and also supports a whole lot more languages than Siri currently does .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
Closing the last window of an application does n't necessarily close the application . For example , opening two TextEdit windows and then closing them both ( kbd > Cmd-W or click the red close button top-left of window ) will not close TextEdit . This allows one to click File > New ( or Cmd-N ) to open and work on a new TextEdit document . You may be familiar with how Microsoft Windows manages applications . It actually opens a new instance of Firefox , for example , for each window that you open . On the Mac , that 's not necessarily the case . People who learn to use Microsoft Windows before learning the Mac are often confused at first because the Mac uses a different conceptual model . This is how Macs have always been , more or less . Mac users get used to typing Cmd-Q if they want to completely quit an application . Often , this is not necessary . But if your machine does n't have much RAM , you may notice memory hogs like browsers slowing things down .
The Control key is used as a modifier for various purposes in different applications . In OS X , it is also used for Emacs bindings supported in many applications . The <URL> that is recommended for application developers discourages the use of the Control key ( the closest equivalent to the Control modifier key in Windows is the Command key on OS X ) : As much as possible , avoid using the Control key . Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features -- as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used -- it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary . Here are some examples of shortcuts from <URL> : Sleep and shutdown shortcuts with Control Command-Control-power button Force your Mac to restart Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Show restart/sleep/shutdown dialog Command-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer Command-Option-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer Shift-Control-Media Eject ( ⏏ ) Put all displays to sleep Finder shortcuts with Control Command-Control-I Get Summary Info Command-Control-Up Arrow Open the folder that contains the current folder in a new window Application and other OS X shortcuts with Control ( may not work in some applications ) Control-A Move to beginning of line/paragraph Control-B Move one character backward Control-D Delete the character in front of the cursor Control-E Move to end of line/paragraph Control-F Move one character forward Control-H Delete the character behind the cursor Control-K Delete from the character in front of the cursor to the end of the line/paragraph Control-L Center the cursor/selection in the visible area Control-N Move down one line Control-O Insert a new line after the cursor Control-P Move up one line Control-T Transpose the character behind the cursor and the character in front of the cursor Control-V Move down one page Control-Tab Move focus to the next grouping of controls in a dialog or the next table ( when Tab moves to the next cell ) Shift-Control-Tab Move focus to the previous grouping of controls Control-F1 Toggle full keyboard access on or off Control-F2 Move focus to the menu bar Control-F3 Move focus to the Dock Control-F4 Move focus to the active ( or next ) window Shift-Control-F4 Move focus to the previously active window Control-F5 Move focus to the toolbar . Control-F6 Move focus to the first ( or next ) panel Shift-Control-F6 Move focus to the previous panel Control-F7 Temporarily override the current keyboard access mode in windows and dialogs Control-F8 Move to the status menus in the menu bar Command-Option-Control-Comma ( , ) Decrease screen contrast Command-Option-Control-Period ( . ) Increase screen contrast Command-Shift-Control-3 Capture the screen to the Clipboard Command-Shift-Control-4 Capture a selection to the Clipboard Command-Control-C Copy the formatting settings of the selected item and store on the Clipboard Command-Control-D Display the definition of the selected word in the Dictionary application Command-Control-V Apply formatting settings to the selected object ( Paste Ruler Command ) Control-Right Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Left Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Down Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Up Arrow Move focus to another value or cell within a view , such as a table Control-Space bar Toggle between the current and previous input sources Option-Control-Space bar Toggle through all enabled input sources Universal
Yes - Apple provides an internal SATA drive with standard connectors but custom firmware . <URL> if you take the screen off carefully you can replace it , you may have to buy a bracket to secure it SSD that do n't match the existing 2.5 inch drive mounting screws . Looking at the steps it does n't seem to be to complicated to do but with the 5k iMac you need to be extremely careful since you have to remove the speakers . I would paste in the step by step images however there a load of them and you would be better off going to the site and taking a look at the images . Also make sure you have the right screw drivers since its a t20 screw you would need a T20 * 100m screw driver .
Go to : System Preferences - > Mission Control and choose " - " in Mission Control shortcut
This is n't exactly true . They can see the sites you visit but not what the content is if you 're using HTTPS . This means that they can see you 're checking your balance but not what your balance is . This also applies to company network traffic providing they 're not doing MITM which they ca n't do without inserting their own certificate on your computer . I suggest checking the certificates installed on your machine in Keychain Access to see if there 's a certificate installed . You can disable these to disable the relevant services from being accessed through the methods detailed in the information shown by clicking on each service . Disabling these wo n't prevent against third-party software installed on the machine providing similar functionality . Any third-party software could provide functionality such as remote access . I 'm unfamiliar with this specific software but it may be a good idea to research exactly what specific software installed on your machine can do . You can re-enable the firewall , however be careful that this does not block any legitimate traffic that may be required by your work network .
iOS at its core now has its own multitasking API built in . The only way for an app to even go into the background it has to use these API 's , so even poor programming experience still ca n't ruin things too much ( and , with the flip side of that , poor developer experience could make the app while its running use more resources than needed ) . All in all - this should n't be an issue . Those apps in the tray do n't mean they are running - it literally is also a recently used app tray . And again , the background tasks they can do are limited by the backgrounding API , so like audio , VOIP , navigation , uploads , etc. . As far as being faster , have longer battery life , etc - no . At least not on an average . You may feel that it runs different , and yes there may be a rouge app doing something odd , and forcing it closed may help . But in general , no - this should n't affect speed or battery life , unless those apps are currently doing background tasks such as location , audio , uploading files , etc. . Otherwise , their RAM state is saved for quicker relaunch , but no processing power is being used .
Siri is only available on the iPhone 4S and only fully supported within the United States at the moment . Unfortunately the page <URL> on Siri does not make that extremely clear , apart from only mentioning the iPhone 4S . I ca n't find an official source on the Apple site other then that page that specifically says Siri is only available on the 4S . Siri supports various languages , however some functionality , like local business searches , will only work in the United States at the moment .
When this happens , it 's usually because the nickname field is also filled in . The nickname field trumps the phonetic first name field . So if you ever used the Siri command " Call me ... " she would automatically fill in the nickname field , making the phonetic field useless . To fix the problem , either write the phonetic spelling inside the nickname field , or delete the nickname field and write the phonetic spelling in the phonetic first name field . Tip : To hear her pronounce your name , you can ask her , " What is my name ? " The advantage of using the phonetic spelling field is that it expresses the property more accurately . However , I noticed that it has a flaw in that it messes with the sorting in the Contacts app ( especially if you sort by first name and include an accented character to help with the pronunciation ) . Therefore , you might want to use the nickname field instead of phonetic spelling .
The default key bindings are stored in . You can use to convert the file to an XML format , like so : Or , if you have Xcode or Property List Editor , you can open it there . In addition , you can add your own bindings system-wide to , or per-user to . <URL> has a nice overview of bindings . I 've grown particularly fond of Transpose ( ⌃ - T ) , which swaps the two letters to the left and right of your cursor , fixing my most common kind of typo quickly . In addition , there are various additional tricks using the ⌥ and ⌘ keys : ⌘ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the line . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌘ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the document . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the word , or between multiple words . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the paragraph . Add ⇧ to select everything in between .
It 's just a matter of hardware . The M9 coprocessor in the iPhone 6s is efficient enough to keep the microphone listening all the time without murdering the battery , unlike the chips in older devices . From the article your question links to : With iPhone 6s , the device is constantly monitoring audio input in the background , a process made possible by the highly efficient M9 motion coprocessor embedded in Apple 's new A9 system-on-chip .
Yes , there is a Faces album which will show all recognised faces in your images .
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
Here is the closest and best bet I happened to find on Google : Append " via transit " to the end of the voice command and Siri brings up a bunch of transport apps . You can click route on Google Maps and you should be on your way . <URL> Pretty Slick !!!
<URL> ftw <URL> You can get simpler than this , and just use the power from the usb port to power a breadboard LED device . You should really have a basic understanding of electronics , be able to read a schematic , etc. , before you do this . Its not that you will electrocute yourself , but you may lose the use of the usb port .
Are you using Keyboard Maestro 6 ? According to their <URL> , ctrl + tab is for windows switcher . I do n't have keyboard maestro , but if you can disable the window switcher , that will fix it . Alternatively , follow <URL> to re-replace that shortcut . I 'll copy and paste that here , with a few differences for your case : Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Application Shortcuts Then , click the " + " button . Select your browser as the Application on the Window that pops up . Type Select Previous Tab , or whatever it says under Window > Select something tab . in the ' Menu Title ' field . Then , press ctrl + tab to set the shortcut and click ' Add ' to save .
The only reason it would not last the hour would be if you did n't have room on the device to store the audio file . Bearing this in mind before you conduct an interview make sure you have enough memory to last . For a one hour recording you will need about 160mb of free disc space
I could not find any built in feature for this so I decided to use the backgrounds . I found a backgound image that I wanted , and made 8 copies of it . Then I wrote the numbers 1-8 on each of them next to where the dock usually are . Then you press ctrl +1 to make sure your in desktop 1 right click the background and chose the image with 1 written on it . Then close down the system preference box ( otherwise you end up changing only desktop one ) . Then press ctrl +2 and do rightclick again . NOt allowed to post screenshot :( to show how it looks
Most apps with in-app purchases have the ability to redownload those purchases if , for instance , you delete the app &amp; need to reinstall it , or if you are loading the app on another device with the same AppleID . Below , the Restore Purchase button in GarageBand which allows me to download loops I have purchased :
end question
start question
Are iPhone screenshots geo-tagged ?
According to <URL> iPhone screenshots have no EXIF data , so no geolocation data would be saved . Not sure if this is still the case on the iPhone 4 . Screenshots are saved as PNG files on the original iPhone and the iPhone 3GS ( the two models I had access to ) and have no EXIF records . The only other metadata fields available are filename , file size , and modified , and imported dates .
There are no build-in power modes in Mac OS X. Still , the standard configuration in Mac OS X in combination with the high capacity batteries used in the MacBooks offers quite good battery life . If you want to optimize your energy usage , you need to manually tweak settings . Here 's , what OS X offers to save power : System Settings - > Energy Saver dim display when using battery display/computer sleep System Settings - > Display Automatically adjust brightness System Settings - > Security &amp; Privacy disable remote control infrared receiver Menubar Wifi Icon - > disable Wifi Bluetooth icon - > disable Bluetooth
Disadvantages : Potential reduced stability of the iDevice More-than-usual application crashes Unusual application behavior Buggy connections ( like WiFi ) , especially on beta releases of jailbreaks . ( In other words : wait until the people who write the jailbreak say it is ready for regular use . Otherwise , expect occasional pain . ) Potential failure of application features Most notably of late was the issue that iBooks would lock users out of DRM 'd material if they were jailbroken . It could determine this by attempting to run unsigned code , which if it ran , would let iBooks know the device was jailbroken . A hack was released later to resolve the issue , but there is always the chance another application will also implement such features . Inability to receive Apple support Apple does n't want to support any jailbroken device ( nor should they be required to do so ) . If you run into something critical , restore/upgrade to an unjailbroken state first , at which point Apple should be able to help . ( Although chances are very good the particular problem will also have gone away . ) Increased Memory Load On the iPhone 4 it is n't as obvious , but it is ( IMO ) very obvious on the iPad 1 -- when you add services that must always be running ( e.g. , SBSettings , etc. ) you increase the memory load on the device . Apps that were previously very close to running out of memory may do so when they least expect it , leading to unexpected crashes . This is n't particularly the fault of the jailbreak itself -- but typically one does n't jailbreak and then not install other jailbreak-specific apps . Increased Likelihood of Strange Behaviour after iOS upgrades Example : I had a 5-row keyboard installed on my iPhone 4 . After I upgraded to 4.3.2 , I ran into an immediate problem : whenever I needed my keyboard , most of it did n't appear , and most of it did n't work . Apparently parts of the 5-row keyboard configuration had stayed around after the upgrade , and the only fix was to go into General - > Keyboards and switch to the English keyboard . ( At the time there was no untethered jailbreak for 4.3.2 , or I would have continued the jailbreak , which likely would also have restored keyboard functionality . ) Increased Security Concerns Jailbreaking can oft mean adding software that has n't been through Apple 's vetting process , which may make it easier to get malware or other software that does " bad things " . If you add SSH functionality , be sure to change the root and mobile passwords ; otherwise you 'll get hacked in no time flat . On the other hand , you can also sometimes get increased security . IIRC , there was a Cydia app that was used to add security to the device ( essentially something Apple should have done , but had n't to that point ) . Personally , the pros of jailbreaking far outweigh the possible cons . I 've had far more strange behavior than typical for an iDevice , yes , but I also expect it and know how to deal with it . Some features are such that I really expect that Apple should have implemented them to begin with , and sometimes Apple does occasionally remove one or two particular jailbreaking reasons . But until they satisfy my ( very ) long list of jailbreaking features , I 'll keep on doing it .
Definitely Homebrew . I started with Fink , then switched to MacPorts ( happier ) , then Homebrew ( much , much happier ) . These are my reasons for using each ( a pro list if you will ) : Fink Apt-based - feel right at home if you come from a Debian-based environment Binary packages - packages are available as binaries so no long compile times . Practically though I 've found that the pre-compiled binaries were always outdated and I had to compile stuff for my system anyways Decent selection of packages MacPorts Biggest selection of packages/ports Generally very up to date Nice <URL> that lets you customise the build Easy and intuitive port files Homebrew Very up to date Maximum leveraging of what comes with OS X. Unlike Fink or MacPorts , it does not require you to build/install ruby and libraries from scratch just to install some small Ruby-based tool . Installs into so does not need you to modify anywhere Everything owned by user , so no packages ever need potentially risky root access to install Every installed package is cleanly sandboxed into its own cellar so you do n't have stray files all over your system , just symlinks from bin , man , etc. . <URL> to create your own formula files ( ie . package descriptors ) Since you 're from a ruby background , another plus is everything is written in ruby and all formulas are simple ruby scripts
If you just saw that you exceeded your data , it could 've been many hours ago while you were not at home . AT&amp;T says it could be delayed by 24 to 48 hours . In my experience , the iPhone will only use data from one connection at a time , not both ; Its choice is indicated by which adapter symbol is showing in the menu bar . When you see the Wi-Fi symbol , your iPhone is only using Wi-Fi for the internet . Example : When I 'm connected to a really bad Wi-Fi network ( if I am almost out of range or it lost its internet connection ) , and trying to load a page in Safari , my iPhone will struggle with loading the page for about 10 to 20 seconds . Then , the Wi-Fi symbol switches to the 3G symbol and the page loads using cellular data . The only exceptions I know of are multimedia messages ( MMS ) that are n't iMessages and Visual Voicemail -- both of these things will not come over Wi-Fi and ca n't be received with cellular data off . They are not using both , but they could use cellular while you 're on Wi-Fi . Last bit of evidence and future-proofing : In iOS 6 Beta 4 , Apple added an option for " Wi-Fi Plus Cellular " . ( <URL> ) It will help people who may be on a Wi-Fi network with little or no internet connection be able to get cellular data through to some apps . ( Maybe I 'm just on the Wi-Fi network for Airplay for example . ) It allows you to choose ( from their pre-set list ) which apps can access cellular data while you 're on Wi-Fi . Before iOS 6 , this option was unavailable .
There are plug-ins available for Apple Mail . Some are plug-ins , some are AppleScripts . You could easily accomplish this via AppleScript . For example , here 's a <URL> , although the author of those scripts notes that they have n't been updated recently and might not work with more current versions of OS X. You 'll have to try it and see . Since it 's an AppleScript , if you 're willing to get your hands dirty , you can edit it to better meet your needs . Another option is <URL> , which includes delayed send as well as several other related items .
I you are looking mainly for annotation then <URL> could be worth a look . It lacks the more fancy features you asked for ( torn edges , blur , etc. ) but for basic annotation ( arrows , text , freehand ) it is quite good . Although it was acquired by Evernote it is possible to save the annotated image back to the camera roll .
Due to the differences between CDMA and GSM , the antenna notches have been moved around . There are also 4 now instead of 3 , and as a result of adding a notch on the left side of the phone , the mute switch is slightly lower on the Verizon iPhone 4 than the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 , which could cause cases made for the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 to not fit the Verizon iPhone 4 properly : Though this may change in a future version of iOS , right now the Verizon iPhone 4 has a " Personal Hotspot " feature to share the data connection with up to 5 devices . In contrast , the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 supports tethering through USB or Bluetooth only , and only to 1 device : Finally , because the Verizon iPhone 4 runs on Verizon 's CDMA , it does not support simultaneous data and voice , unlike the AT&amp;T iPhone 4 which does over 3G .
There is a syndication setting that you choose when you upload a video to youtube in the video settings page under Broadcasting and Sharing Options that allows it to be played on mobile devices or not .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
Two of the best apps for this are <URL> and <URL> . Cloud app has an option to automatically upload screenshots ( image courtesy of Softpedia ) . It is very drag and drop friendly and pastes the URL to your clipboard for convenience . Skitch is a little more heavy on the screen snapping controls . It 's like grab on steroids . You can quickly hide private information , point out items , and edit the snap before uploading . The free version of both are well worth it . Both have paid upgrades that are low cost , but you do n't need to pay to use either . I have also heard really good things about <URL> so you might check it out as well . Both <URL> and <URL> are available on the App Store . The two are better together - skitch is better for grabbing a great screen shot , and droplr for upload and sharing it .
Answering my own question : there 's a new tab in Whatsapp called " Recent " , which I had n't paid attention to . It 's the second one from the left , and it has the log of your recent Whatsapp voice calls .
Often a hard reset of the device will fix problems . Powering off and back on does n't do the same thing as it does for a computer - it 's more akin to hibernate mode in that its drawing no power , but nothing ( RAM etc ) is cleared . To do a hard reset , on iPhone 6s and below , press and hold Sleep and Home until the Apple logo appears . On iPhone 7 and higher , press and hold Volume Down and Home .
According to Microsoft 's <URL> : Outlook stores only the indices in the Database ( with a capital " D " ) file and stores the data records as a series of files nested within folders . The Database file and its folders are located here :
<URL> by <URL> While the app does n't let you directly browse artists and albums , it definitely uses a <URL> and lets you focus on finding the new music -- by not standing in your way and getting a bunch of recommended tracks based on a given artist seed . Each preview lasts for a whole minute which I think is enough to form an opinion ( and bookmark the track ) . Bookmarked tracks can be re-listened at any time ( with the same time constraint ) . The buy icon link is small and non-obtrusive . Out of ten tracks I have listened to , I loved eight and two of them were by my two other favorite bands that the app had no way of knowing . I also came to like the " passive discovery " workflow where I hear new music without having to browse through the bands and tap tap tap . Last.fm radio was never even close to this . And SuperSonic is free . The last bit that got me was adjustable recommendations popularity , danceability , tempo and the ability to ignore these settings altogether .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
The emergency call function only allows dialing emergency numbers valid for whatever area you 're currently in , i.e. 911 in the US , 112 in the EU , 999 in the UK ... See the <URL> for more details .
If you get a refurb from Apple then it will come with the same warranty as a new phone . It is not a scratch n dent type phone , but will look and feel new . Not 100 % about getting one from a provider like AT&amp;T or Verizon , but I think they will also provide a full warranty .
Finally found an answer to this , <URL> Create a standard playlist called " Not Missing " . Drag your entire library into that playlist . Missing tracks can not be copied to a playlist . Create a smart playlist called " Missing " where : Playlist - is not - Not Missing ( additional to this post ) Media type - is - Music You now have a playlist which contains only your songs with the dreaded exclamation mark , and you can re-add them from your original source .
I jailbroke my iPhone 4 few weeks ago , specifically for the MyFi , which allows you to tether your 3G connection to your other WiFi-enabled devices ( iPad , laptop , etc ) , without paying $ 20 to AT&amp;T every month and being limited by 2Gb of data . MyFi is $ 19.99 , but you pay it once and enjoy free tethering after that , especially if you kept your $ 30 unlimited data plan ( I did ) . Initially beyond that I saw very little reason to use other apps from Cydia store , but now I slowly changing my mind , since I found few real gems . SBSettings - gives you quick panel to toggle WiFi , Bluetooth , 3G and few other functions . This is extremely handy , especially when you 're trying to preserve your battery ( long day on the conference or something ) and you do n't want to dive into Settings each time you want to turn WiFi on or off . SBSettings is free Notified Pro - this is notification management done right . Notifications have horrible usability in iOS and this app ( $ 4.00 for Pro version , but I think they have the light one for free as well ) fixes it by introducing notifications list similar to one Android has , which you can activate from status bar or via other customized shortcuts Frash - which is Flash for iPhone , right in your mobile Safari . Frankly I have n't use it for anything serious yet ( and it does n't support my favorite Flash game <URL> ) , but it 's a good app to wow your friends , since everyone knows that there 's no Flash on the iPhone and you can always prove people wrong . My favorite app IntelliScreen - it 's a paid app as well , but it 's extremely handy . It gives you a highly customizable lock screen very similar to Windows Mobile 's Today screen , so you can look at your calendar , emails , SMS and other info without even unlocking your phone . Really , really handy . One other thing that I did n't try personally yet , but going to soon is sync with your PC or Mac over WiFi . I hate to do it over a cable . Now , on the bad side : You have to be more careful and knowledgeable about stuff you 're installing . That includes both apps ( which are , in general , more buggy and may conflict with each other or with iOS ) and stuff like official Apple iOS updates that you ca n't install unless you know that there 's a jailbreak for them . Cydia store ( and others like RockYou app store ) are less informative than AppStore and quite often it 's hard to figure out what certain app does Payment ( while they allow multiple ways including AMazon payments and PayPal ) is usually much more painful Apps quite often are more expensive ( think $ 4.99 - $ 9.99 range ) , but on the bright side they worth it
end question
start question
How can I run multiple Skype accounts in one computer ?
Run your first instance as usual , by clicking the icon . Run the second one from terminal ;
One place to look might be at <URL> . Update : iUsers for iPad now makes this possible . Check out the <URL> .
Run your first instance as usual , by clicking the icon . Run the second one from terminal ;
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
It sounds like the account type might be POP instead of IMAP . POP stores messages and all message attributes on each client ( iMac , iPad , etc ) . IMAP stores messages and attributes on the server , so every client has the same view of the messages ( including unread/read state ) . So , the solution for you is to use IMAP if the account supports it .
No . iPhoto does not allow you to dictate the internal storage scheme . However , the export function does have an option to export the original file , so you can avoid the re sampling and/or format conversion if that is enough to stick with what you have . Additionally , Aperture and iPhoto can use the same storage , so you could get aperture and do the following ; convert the storage of any photos you want to folders and then save the library . continue to use iPhoto for convenient tasks and iPhoto will work with the aperture store locations . do all imports in aperture when you want the originals stored in specific folders . You can use Lightroom , PhotoMechanic or Aperture which all allow whatever folder based storage of photos you prefer .
Currently the port on the MacBook Pro is both a DisplayPort and a Thunderbolt port . The limitation , as already explained in the other question , is only relevant to DisplayPort , which has to be the last device in the chain , if daisy chained . So in short , and in theory , it should work . According to the <URL> page , you can plug in any adapter for DisplayPort and it should work , as long as the device also supports it . The only time this gets really complex , is when you need to both power the device and use it using just the one port . If the device has external power , it should n't cause any major problems daisy chaining , however , the DisplayPort device still needs the last device in the chain . Simply because it can not transfer data at the speed and rate the Thunderbolt can .
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
An update for LaunchBar 6 Version 6.0 introduced a slick way of selecting multiple items . The LaunchBar folks call it the &#8220; Sixth Sense &#8221; . Selected items are held in a &#8220; staging area &#8221; and can be acted upon all at once using typical LaunchBar tools . Typing Command-A will select all items in the search list . Typing a Comma ( &#8220; , &#8221; ) will select the current item and allow you to move on to select more . Pressing Shift will scrolling up or down with the arrow keys select continuously as you scroll You can undo these actions by repeating them with a selected file . Hitting Escape clears the selections . The selection then works with other actions : Press Tab to send them to another folder , etc. . There &#8217; s a discussion at the <URL>
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
Have a look at " Combining PDF files on the command line in OSX " in <URL> . It turns out that from Tiger onwards , OSX ships with a Python script that does exactly what you need . The script is already executable , and Python is pre-installed on OS X , so all you need to do to run it is opening the Terminal and typing Also on the linked page it suggests making a symbolic link for the file to make typing easier however they omitted the in , and without it , a hard link is created . Probably would n't matter , however though I 'd mention it .
You can do this with a Smart Playlist . Click File - > New Smart Playlist Configure the rule so it reads " Media Kind is Podcast " Make sure the " Limit to " box is unchecked , and that the " Live updating " box is Click OK Once this is done you will have a playlist with all your podcasts . To sort by date , right click the column bar at the top and check " Release Date " . Click on the Release Date column to sort your podcasts by date . The only downside to this view is that this view does not provide the blue dot that indicates whether or not a podcast has been listened to . You can , however , add the " Plays " column and use that instead , as podcasts that have not been listened to will have a play count of " 0 " . You can also have the smart playlist automatically remove played podcasts from the list by editing it and adding the rule " Plays is 0 " .
There does n't seem to be a limit on how many times you can change an app 's availability date . Note that there 's a 24 -- 48 hour delay for your change to the availability date to be reflected across every App Store .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
The same thing happens to me in 10.8 . If you hold option before releasing command in the application switcher , the Finder window ( and not the window of the desktop ) gets focus . Holding option makes the application switcher " reopen " the application , so that if for example the application has no default windows ( like a file browser window in Finder ) , a default window is reopened . You could also consider using other methods than command-tab to focus Finder , like <URL> or use Alfred .
Found this on a forum today . Suppose a husband and wife want to share contacts . In , the husband adds his account . In it , he must sync contacts ; he can also sync whatever else he wants . In , the wife adds her account . In it , she can not sync contacts , but she can sync whatever else she wants . In , she adds her husband 's account . In it , the only thing she syncs is contacts . That 's it .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
You can effectively turn off push notifications for a particular email account ... sort of . Go to the Settings app , and hit " Mail , Contacts , Calendars " . Go to " Fetch New Data " , then scroll down and go to " Advanced " . For the email account whose little red badges you do n't want , change the setting to " Manual " instead of " Push " . This will prevent new messages from pushing a notification icon to the home screen . However , when you open the Mail app to check your other email , the app will sync the " Manual " account with the server and you 'll get a badge if there are unread messages there . So , like bmike mentioned , the real way to get rid of those badges is to get closer to inbox zero .
end question
start question
Where to target when doing a Brute Force attack on an extended mac OS drive ?
There is no file where an encrypted image of your external disk password is stored . Not on the internal disk nor on your external disk . You do n't have an encrypted password to feed John the Ripper . When your external disk is mounted , your external disk password is in memory because it is heavily used to crypt and decrypt your data . If your external disk is correctly mounted , and if you have a FireWire port , then <URL> can get this in memory ( RAM ) password . See here the article from <URL> best describing this technic of RAM searching . The term of exploit to describe this technic is usual media overkill .
I do n't know that you 'll find a free one , because it costs money to maintain a server , the server in which you need to use with some software set up to communicate with the Apple Push Notification Service ( " APNS " ) . We use <URL> ( link goes to homepage , <URL> an iTunes App Store Link ) at work in order to send Monitoring ( NAGIOS ) notifications to our phones . It 's a $ 3 app , but it 's also infinitely flexible . It gives you an e-mail address you can use to just shoot notifications too , but it also offers an API you can use to do a lot of special things with . More details if requested after you check out Zac 's site . ( Zac is the developer/maintainer/operator of Prowl app and it 's associated server backend . )
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
SMC is short for <URL> . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . Therefore a reset can only help in problems that are related to such . Possible cases where an SMC Reset could be necessary include ( according to Apple ) : fans running fast but should not keyboard backlight , battery indicator light , display backlight or magsafe LED behaves incorrectly power button does not respond closing/opening the lid does not work properly battery not charging properly system unusually slow
Do not delete the download or you will lose the rental . The only method for transferring rentals is between two devices is when you start by renting it from a computer . This is <URL> under the section worded <URL> . If you download a rented movie on your iPhone 4 or later , iPad , iPod touch ( 4th generation or later ) , or Apple TV : It is not transferable to any other device or computer . You can get help from Apple to accomplish this move if you are not certain if your software is the correct version or are having difficulties with your account . They might issue a one time refund , but this is n't intended to be something you can regularly do . If you have a TV and an Apple TV , your best alternative might be to AirPlay the movie , but on Lion , you will need third party software like <URL> to get video and music from your iOS device ( your phone in this case ) to play on the mac . Please research this option well ( especially the returns policy before buying ) , since it says it plays videos and it may not work with protected content like a movie rental .
Go to the network preferences panel in System Preference Select airport , then ' Advanced ... ' Press the plus button It will work even when the network is n't near .
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
Alot depends on what Mac Mini you have . Early Mac Minis only had a single DVI out , later versions had mini DVI out , still newer versions had a mini DVI and a mini DisplayPort out , and the newest all metal version has a mini DisplayPort and HDMI out and comes with an HDMI to DVI adapter . Negrino was correct in saying that you could get a USB to DVI adapter but you might only have to get one of them , depending on your Mac Mini 's video out ports . If you have an early G4 or Core Solo Mini , you would have to get 2 adapters . For a little clarification , are you planning on mirroring your desktop 3 times or having 1 desktop extended over 3 monitors ? If it is the first option then you could simply get a VGA or DVI Y adapter that would mirror the image coming out of one port to 2 or more monitors .
My previous answer is preserved below . You can use the command to apply the attribute : And to unhide : These commands should take effect immediately . You need to have the Apple Developer Command Line Tools installed . You can either get them from inside of Xcode ( in Preferences under Downloads ) or you can download them from <URL> ( free registration required ) . After it 's installed you 'll have the command : This needs to be executed as , and it wo n't vanish right away . But after remounting it , it wo n't be displayed in the Finder any more . You 'll need to use Disk Utility ( or ) to mount and unmount the disk afterward since it wo n't be visible to unmount and it will still be available under normally . If it 's an internal disk then I believe that it will auto-mount at boot , but I do n't know for certain . To make it visible again just run the same thing , but with a small : Again , you 'll need to remount it .
Before Sierra , this was n't an option . In Sierra - use the Advanced finder options and check the option ' Keep folders on top when sorting by name ' <URL> Before 10.12 , Finder just did n't have a " group the folders " at the top/bottom there are legions of Mac users that put all sorts of characters in their folder names so that they sort above or below when sorted by name . There are all sorts of <URL> , but then everything is arranged by kind first , and secondarily alphabetically . If this is a deal breaker - check out the many apps that run in place of the Finder . Here is a query to get you started : <URL>
If the drive is appearing in Disk Utility and shows up as being mounted , try this : In the Finder , go to the Finder menu , then Finder Preferences , then General and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items on the desktop " . Then on the Sidebar screen and be sure " external disks " is checked under " Show these items in the sidebar . " This should make the drive appear .
Yes this does matter depending on the sata speed of your hdd , ssd and the laptop . My 2011 MacBook Pro supports 6 Gb/s to the original hdd and 3 to the Optical drive . My ssd supports 6 Gb/s and my original hdd supports 3 gb/s . Obviously , I did not put the ssd in the optical bay caddy ( which would have been less work ) . Instead , I moved the original hdd to the caddy an placed the ssd where the hdd originally used to be . This way , my ssd runs at 6gb/s and my hdd ( still ) at 3 Gb/s . Good luck !
Installing cleanly gives you the advantage that you will know if an error is due to the " as-shipped " condition of the software before you add your data and applications to the mix . The installation of a new OS is the primary time when people notice corruption of a filesystem or other hardware type errors since a machine can often keep running well with some little errors . But relinking all the kernel extensions and drivers and knowing that your accessories and applications will all take to a major new OS is a lot of change . Spending a little extra time up front can help isolate issues if you have them . By running the migration later , you have more control over things and can also choose to hand migrate anything first that you do n't trust the tools to automate .
Yes it should n't be a problem . Using the option key during booting should show all available installations to boot .
There are 2 apps on mac that name colors to help people with color blindness : A free app called <URL> . It basically does the same job as WhatColor , although with a more simple color naming system . It 's small , has instant color naming and stay on top of other windows . Also a free app called <URL> . But this app takes more screen space and is quite slow . I did not find a way to make it stay on top , a deal breaker for me . As a background , I am colorblind too and I personally use ColorCompass on my Mac to work with Mac Office all day long on a daily basis .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
If you use Disk Utility to image an HFS filesystem into one dmg file , the resulting file is portable no matter what filesystem you store it on . Where things get complicated is incremental backups . If you want incremental backups and a DIY solution , choose a sparse disk image and use rsync to update the band files that you store on NTFS , just like Time Machine does to Time Capsule . If you really just want a painless backup solution , you might select a professional tool set such as ( in alphabetical order ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Since I listed some of the more popular incremental backup software packages ( some are hosted , some you can self host ) , the one that seems to fit your requirement the best is the free CrashPlan software that would be self hosted and need a computer connected to the NTFS drive to host the Mac data as a backup destination .
I do n't think you can do this in Safari on the iPhone but you could use a 3rd party browser app . Many of those will let you set the browser agent . One browser I know does this is ' Atomic Web Browser ' . This may not work in all cases as some websites may use other ways of determining which content to show , for example , some will detect the screen dimensions . I 've tried this on my iPhone with Atomic Web Browser . Within the browser , I went to settings , ' Identify browser as ' and selected ' Safari Desktop ' . Then I went to nascar.com and tapped on the nascar logo . It showed me the desktop version of the page . I checked in mobile safari and doing the same indeed took me to a mobile version .
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
You can create your own recovery disk with <URL> and a blank USB drive that is at least 1 GB . Alternatively , your Mac can boot into <URL> mode in which it downloads an image from Apple 's servers , and it can do this with a damaged recovery partition or even a blank hard drive -- it 's built into the firmware of the system . To access it , boot up while holding Command + R . You can do this over a wireless network that is either unprotected or WPA-secured , or you can use an Ethernet connection . In both cases , your system will need to download OS X from Apple ( the recovery partition does not contain a full OS X. )
end question
start question
Best epub reader app for iPad ?
I went through this when I first got my iPad . My killer app is color pdfs with nice figures . ( biochemistry/bioinformatics ) I tried GoodReader , iBooks , Stanza , and one other that I ca n't remember now . I also wanted : borderless full screen , tap to turn , quick page turns regardless of file size , and the ability to scrub between pages . I settled on Stanza , as it has those features and seems to integrate with Dropbox in a reasonable manner . My litmus test for file size was a 300dpi scan of Envisioning Information by Tufte ( came to nearly 450MB ? ) It was quite usable with fast page turns . It did crash once in awhile , but other readers would not even load it . Stanza 's epub performance apppears to be good . I have only really tested it with brutal PDFs , to be honest , but I use it nearly daily . My workflow is this : read rss from PubMed/sites with filters . Read abstract . If I like it , put it in Dropbox/papers . Then , before leaving work/home , sync the files on Dropbox . Read on train/at leisure . I make notes in SimpleNote . I do n't really like PDF annotations because they are generally non-standard and easier to lose/messup . Hope it helps !
On a new Mac ( presumably one that uses an Intel i5 or better processor ) , I think the hassle of rebooting to use BootCamp outweighs the benefit . I would run both Ubuntu and your favorite flavor of Windows in one of the Virtual Machine products . Some prefer <URL> because it is free . I 'm not in that camp , and I think it has poorer performance than the competing solutions . That leaves <URL> or <URL> . I 've used both , and find little difference between them in real-world usage . I use VMWare Fusion , myself . I would purchase whichever one you can find at a discount . I note that you can often find Parallels included in the Mac software bundle deals that pop up several times a year .
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
I 'll admit I 'm biased because I 've been working with it for years now , but <URL> has one of the best MIDI editing interfaces going . If the Pro version is a little too much for you to stomach there 's an " Express " version that 's pared down when it comes to plugins and samples , but has the same excellent MIDI editor . On the cheap-but-effective side you 've got <URL> which will run on OS X and includes MIDI editing facilities . You can try it out for free and it 's $ 40 ( at the time of writing ) to buy it if you like it . Hard to beat that deal . And then in between these two running the gamut of price and features you 've got a whole slew of other options : Cubase , Sonar , Abelton , etc. . Each of them offering slightly ( or not so slightly ) different interfaces and feature sets .
What you are looking for is <URL> . It will allow you to run an app continuously ( auto-start at boot , relaunch when it quits/crash ) To use it add a file in Then load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with launchd Launchctl will run this after reboots .
If you have any interest in running shell script the following will work . Just set the " Display_Sleep_Time " and " System_Sleep_Time " as you want them to be along with the " App " you are choosing to prevent sleep on . By launching the script anytime you run your app your all sleep times will be turned to 0 preventing both your display and system from sleeping . TESTED ON 10.5.x 10.6.x 10.7.4 NOTE : WARNING THIS SCRIPT DOES CONTAIN AN INTERNAL LOOP . You may prefer to utilize the following script inside a Daemon rather than use the internal loop the script provides . However , the same concept applies .
This is the problem Apple is grappling with right now . I 'm hoping that they 'll have some answer for us this year that helps us deal with the number of competing apps in the app store . In the meantime , I have a few strategies for finding an app that meets my needs : Use the app store search . If you need your ebook reader to support epub , bookmarks , notes , and dropbox , simply type , " epub bookmarks notes dropbox " in the search field of the app store . I like to sort first by rating and check out the highest rated apps , then by popularity and check out the most downloaded apps . Note that sorting by rating and popularity are only available on the iPad . I read the reviews , both at the high rate end and low rate end to get an idea of the types of features people are excited about , and the types of problems people are experiencing . I look at the most recent update notes , and see how long ago it was last updated to get an idea of whether the developer is taking an active role in maintaining the app and is responsive to complaints , or if it 's an old app that works , but probably does n't have new features . At that point the only thing to do is to try out the ones that look most promising . Many apps offer a trial or ad supported version , so the trial can be free in many cases . For others , you 'll have to pay a little to try them out , and if they do n't fit your needs you 've lost a little money and time , but remember that you 're picking an app that should fit your needs for a long time - when you find it it will be worth the effort and money you 've spent on other apps looking for the perfect one . Use internet reviews/forums Do a google search for " best ebook reader ipad " or similar , and you 'll often get dozens of " top ten " style lists from people who have spent some time not just reviewing a few apps , but comparing and contrasting them . You have to do a bit of wading , and you are going to have a hard time finding less popular subjects , " best lawn care app " is n't going to give you such collections because few people will have taken the time to check them out , even though many exist onthe app store . Ask in appropriate forums This site , Ask Different , does permit apple and iOS specific product recommendations , for instance , and there are many other forums that are fine with such questions . You can check out the tag <URL> to get examples of the style of questions allowed here . The tag has this note which might also give you tips on asking for a recommendation : Recommendations can easily be subjective and local to one person or time . Please be specific about function and broad about timeframe so that your question , once answered objectively , is of use to the community .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
Does <URL> work ? It offers <URL> for a lot of formats , quote from the FAQ : Calibre supports the conversion of many input formats to many output formats . It can convert every input format in the following list , to every output format . Input Formats : CBZ , CBR , CBC , CHM , DJVU , EPUB , FB2 , HTML , HTMLZ , LIT , LRF , MOBI , ODT , PDF , PRC , PDB , PML , RB , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ Output Formats : EPUB , FB2 , OEB , LIT , LRF , MOBI , HTMLZ , PDB , PML , RB , PDF , RTF , SNB , TCR , TXT , TXTZ
Whilst it 's not ideal , if it 's that bad you could disable the app bounce notification completely for all apps : To revert , replace with . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this at the following page : <URL>
Not on the App Store . Something like this is a likely violation of privacy laws as well . There 's no way Apple would allow it .
Passbook is only for the iPhone and iPod Touch . The following is taken from the <URL> : ... you can scan your iPhone or iPod touch to check in for a flight , get into a movie , and redeem a coupon ...
<URL> ' <URL> and <URL> stereo USB microphones can be used in any recording app on the iPad via the Camera Connection Kit . The manufacturer confirms that this is possible , and has detailed directions for setting it up ( including a video ) on <URL> . Note that you will need a powered USB hub .
The Acrobat Reader installer not only installs the application itself into but contains a bunch of other packages which need to get installed into other places ( e.g. browser plugins ) . These things ca n't get installed by just using a simple application bundle ( at least not as easily ) . <URL>
Yes . Purchases are tied to your iTunes Account , not to the device .
There are a lot of pro photographers who 've started using the iPad for their first pass of editing . Vincent Laforet , who is highly respected wrote about his use of them at " <URL> " . Also " <URL> " has some suggestions .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
I ca n't speak about the iPad specifically , but I 've used 3G through Verizon as my primary Internet connection for about 4 years . Ii actually started out as 1xRTT , but the cell tower were upgraded . My choices are either 3G , satellite ( line-of-site to the satellite may be a problem ) , or dialup . The joys of country living . I have n't had any problems with it . Some things are slow : PS3 updates , large downloads , etc. , but its fine for email , web browsing , etc. . My account is old enough that its does n't have download limits . I think I hit 7GB last month .
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
end question
start question
How to enable the sidebar in finder ?
Carefully move the pointer to the left side of the finder window border till the cursor changes to arrow pointing to the right . ↦ Hold and Drag to the right . If that did not work you need to restore the finders preferences . In terminal run and Restart .
As far as I know , not with the stock options . You may be able to do this on a jailbroken phone if there 's a jailbreak community app for that . Short of that , you 'd have to make one yourself . Otherwise , you 're down to changing these settings manually when you 're away from WiFi .
<URL> . FilePathCM is a contextual menu and menu bar item for copying the : POSIX path Server afp URL Abbreviated ( Tilde ) POSIX path POSIX path for Terminal.app HFS path Full name Display name Extension Windows style path of Finder items ( files , folders , volumes ) to the clipboard . To create a new file , see this link : <URL> To launch a terminal , I like answer from neoneye but I also use <URL> .
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
In Finder , go to preferences , then click Sidebar . Under the Shared group , tick Connected Servers .
The relatively difficult-to-find solution to the problem is to go to the Note you wish to lock : in the top-right corner , tap the " Share " icon on the bottom row , there will be a lock symbol with a caption that says " Lock Note " . select that symbol you will be prompted to create a password that locks this note , but remember that this single password will secure all your protected notes , not just the note you 're on . You can also use Touch ID to secure your notes . Remember that if you secure the note , it will no longer be accessible by devices running versions of OS X older than 10.11.4 , or devices running a version of iOS different from 9.3 or higher . Next time you try to open that Note ( or others that are locked with the passcode ) , you 'll be prompted for your password to unlock it . You can change the Notes password by going to your Home screen , then Settings > Notes > Password .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
I am happy to tell you that keeping it charging will not damage your MacBook in any way ! There is also a way to do your requested way of streaming data to the monitor . You can use the amazing Apple TV . This is not only for TV 's because you can stream to monitors , and your own TV ! ( which personally is amazing if you have a large flatscreen ! ) However I am not 100 % sure this is compatible with all types of monitors or TV 's so i would recommend just keeping it plugged in because like I said earlier that will not damage your computer . I hope this helped ! The reason your having this problem is because monitors are n't computers . They do n't have wifi , you ca n't connect them to anything wirelessly . Monitors do n't have any form of computational power except for converting computer code to images which still requires being connected to a computer to work .
That would be under System Prefs > Trackpad ( or mouse , if you use that instead ) > Screen Zoom options :
<URL> is a good , inexpensive search utility that does not use Spotlight and will enable you to perform these kinds of searches .
Open System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > Privacy > Accessibility > " Click the lock to make changes " > Select " Cinch "
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
If the file ~ / . vimrc is not there , you 'll just need to create it . To enable syntax highlighting , add to it . Also make sure that " Display ANSI colors " is enabled in the Terminal Settings .
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
The file you mention is a binary formatted property list . You can convert and edit these files with developer tools such as <URL> . The following article walks through the steps required , <URL> .
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
The same thing happens to me in 10.8 . If you hold option before releasing command in the application switcher , the Finder window ( and not the window of the desktop ) gets focus . Holding option makes the application switcher " reopen " the application , so that if for example the application has no default windows ( like a file browser window in Finder ) , a default window is reopened . You could also consider using other methods than command-tab to focus Finder , like <URL> or use Alfred .
Highlight the result in Spotlight , then press ⌘ ↩ . This will open the containing folder in Finder . Alfred will also let you do this , with a bit more customisation :
The way items are shown in Finder can be configured through the folder 's Toolbar , which gives four default options : Icon View - Which is the regular layout of icons . List View - The items are shown in a list-like and can be navigated as a tree . Columns View - Items are displayed through columns which show the file 's path . CoverFlow - Items are shown with the regular coverflow efect . Note : While in a folder , you can switch through these options by doing Command + the option 's number ( 1 is the icon 's view , 2 is the list view , etc ) .
end question
start question
Erasing a bunch of contacts at once ?
You can use the <URL> app from the appstore to do this . The app costs $ 0.99 If you want a Mac only solution , you can backup the contacts in your mac 's Address Book , connect your phone to your mac and set it to sync only your address book in iTunes . Once it 's done syncing ( it should now be a clean slate ) , you can change the sync settings to whatever you wish and then restore your existing contacts from the backup .
100 % CPU utilization will not directly be harmful to your laptop . Heat , however , can be . Your MacBook Pro does have several internal temperature sensors that will turn on the internal fan and finally halt the machine should it get too hot . You can see the temperature each sensor is reading by using this free program : <URL> You should still use some type of cooling stand if possible . My 2007 MacBook Pro suffered a broken display from what I believe to be a heat related issue . After heavy use and high CPU utilization the bottom of the display would get very hot . Then , the screen would start to flicker slightly ( but only when the laptop was running hot ) . Eventually , the screen had to be replaced . Using a laptop stand with multiple fans kept my machine running cool enough to prevent the issue from happening again . Also , you do have some control over how much CPU a process gets . For that you can use BeNicer , another free piece of software : <URL>
OS X , like most modern operating systems , uses a virtual memory system for managing memory . Among other purposes , this allows the operating system to treat the computer as having an unlimited pool of memory . To achieve this , the OS will page unused parts of RAM out to a disk store known as the swapfile . Of course , RAM is not unlimited , so OS X groups RAM into four categories : wired , active , inactive , and free . Wired memory is required by the operating system , and can never be paged out of memory . Active memory is memory used by currently-running programs . Inactive memory was used recently by programs which have now been terminated ( or have n't been unused in a long time ) . Free memory is , as the name suggests , RAM that is not being used . When you launch a program , it gets loaded into active memory . When you quit a program , however , it does n't get removed from RAM ; rather , it gets bumped into inactive memory . This is why it is often faster to re-launch a program -- it is still in RAM ( try this with a big program like Firefox ) . Once all your memory is used ( free memory is 0 ) , the OS will write out inactive memory to the swapfile to make more room in active memory . If a program gets paged out to the swapfile , and you re-launch it , it 'll get pulled from the swapfile into active memory . So in short , you actually should n't care if your free memory is low . In fact , you want it to be low -- free memory is wasted memory ( as the OS is n't using it for anything ) . When examining how much memory your computer is using , you actually want to pay attention mostly to Swap used , which tells you the size of the virtual memory swapfile , and Page ins , which tells you how often the OS has to pull memory from the swapfile into active memory .
It appears that this functionality has been removed . There used to be a sidebar box with the ability to contact Apple regarding adding your work to any of the download lists on Apple.com . However , this box no longer appears on the page . Also , the linked page from the old submit link in the box above no longer appears to be functional : <URL> This seems to match the fact that no new calendars have been uploaded for years .
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
Your initial guess that it 's Google Contacts is right - if you 've set it up to sync with Google Contacts , it 'll pull down the same contact photos as you have in Google Contacts , and it works both ways ( assign a photo on iPhone , syncs back up to Google Contacts ) . If you 've got a contact photo set in Google + or the like , it 'll pull that photo automatically , so that 's the photo which 'll appear to others .
Turns out I was n't the only person that 's been interested in this . There 's an article on <URL> that states that this is indeed possible , which is good news for me . The person that discovered it wrote : Big question on everyone 's mind buying the Verizon iPad was whether data from AT&amp;T s 3G network would work on this iPad , or if Verizon/Apple would block this . I was one of the first to obtain a Verizon iPad and can happily confirm that this is allowed ! I used my ATT iPhone 4S sim card and took out the Verizon sim , and data worked ! You must apply the AT&amp;T APN carrier settings before this works though . BTW APN carrier settings can be changed here : <URL> edit : I just tested this and it works . Changed the APN , put my iPhone SIM in , and it worked .
Assuming you 've synced your contacts via Address Book then , if you want a deterministic way of syncing in addition to the periodic sync , you can invoke a sync manually from the menu bar app . OSX is a bit unpleasant in that it will only add this menu item if you set up iCloud , however , you can add this menu to your menu bar without iCloud :) To do so , you need to open a file called located in on your install volume ( usually ) . You should only need to open this file once and then the menu item will remain on your menu bar until you remove it and should persist through logins and reboots . If you want a quick terminal command to do the above then fire up Terminal and enter the following :
I found how to make iTunes restore only contacts , while preserving the rest intact : run iTunes before connecting iPhone disable auto-syncing in preferences : should be switched On connect iPhone to PC . In iTunes : on the Sidebar , select your iPhone ( press if Sidebar is hidden ) on the top central menu ( ) , click scroll the page to bottom , there 's section switch on : click in the bottom right of iTunes window ( or right click on iPhone and choose ) These steps wipe the local contact store on iPhone ( leaving cloud contact sync alone , if applicable ) and injects all the contacts stored in the PC-side data source that iTunes has selected ( from Windows Contacts in my case ; Outlook on Windows / Contacts on Mac in other setups ) and pushes those contacts to the device . It does not load contacts from an iOS backup .
Do Not Disturb has Manual or Timer modes , though it is fixed times , not ' until alarm goes off ' Details at <URL> With Do Not Disturb , you can silence calls , alerts , and notifications that you get while your device is locked . You can also schedule a time or choose who you 'll allow calls from . Turn Do Not Disturb on or off When Do Not Disturb is on , a crescent moon , or half-moon , icon will appear in the status bar . There are two ways to turn Do Not Disturb on or off : Tap Settings > Do Not Disturb . Choose Manual to turn on Do Not Disturb now or set a schedule . Swipe up from the bottom of the screen to open Control Center . Tap the crescent moon . Set a schedule If you do n't want to be disturbed at a certain time , you can set a schedule . Tap Settings > Do Not Disturb and turn on Scheduled . Then set a time . Schedule Do Not Disturb time Change your settings You can also choose when you want to be disturbed : Allow Calls From : Allow calls from everyone , no one , your favorites , or specific contact groups stored on your device or your iCloud account . Repeated Calls : If someone calls you twice within three minutes , the call wo n't be silenced . Silence : Choose to silence calls and notifications always or only when the device is locked .
Per this Apple KB article , the Mac must be awake for Energy Saver 's settings to take effect : Your computer must be awake and you must be logged in for it to shut down at the scheduled time . If you are not logged in or the computer is in sleep , your computer will not shut down at the scheduled time Source : <URL>
You can re-download Lion even though it has already been installed by holding down the option key before clicking Purchased . Do not release the key until after the option to Install appears alongside OS X Lion . The workaround may be more reliable if something other than Purchased is in foreground before alt/option-clicking Purchased . Burn the installer to disc , then delete it when you 're done with it .
Yes you can , but you probably will not choose to do so . When you really want to force the display into 2880x1800 you can easily configure it that way . Here are four of the better options available today to do what you ask : <URL> <URL> ( used to be SetResX ) <URL> <URL> That said , items like the menu bar with the Apple icon are extremely small at 2880x1800 and you do n't need the entire screen to at that high resolution for a properly build application to let the windows it controls have the full resolution . The <URL> are pretty good , and you can always reduce your font sizes even while running at the doubled 1440x900 resolution . Most people will never need to set 2880x1800 since they really only care that the applications they use get the retina treatment and do n't need to force the rest of the UI to run with such a dense packing of pixels .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
You could make an automator action that starts each item serially , with staggered delays , or sleeps to ensure a delay between each start , and then simply place that single script as your startup item :)
I have now gone ahead and clicked " Update All Contacts " for Facebook . Here are my empirical findings : After about 30s it said 405 contacts updated I examined my contacts and could see Some contacts on that iPad got photos from Facebook No existing photos were overridden . On lots of contacts a " Facebook " entry was created . I guess this indicates that they are my friends on facebook . When I click such an entry , the Facebook app opens . However , it opens on the standard newsfeed . It does not open anything connected to that particular person . Is this a bug ? No photos were synced to Google or other iDevices . The photos did not appear in Google Contacts . They did not even appear on other iDevices set up syncing with Google Contacts . ( I did the update on an iPad and my iPhone was not updated ) . The " Facebook " entry was updated on other iDevices . I could not find any evidence that any new contact cards were created . No new Google Contacts were created . I do have some Facebook friends that were not in contacts , and they did not show up in contacts afters " Update All Contacts " .
The great thing about a specific question is that it can be given a specific answer . For example , the OP said : " There 's an excellent Flickr app called SuprSetr which I 'd like to automatically launch each morning at 3:55 am . How ? " Answer : Save the following as ( or whatever name you prefer , but it should end with . plist ) and put it into the folder ~ / Library/LaunchAgents ( where ~ is your Home Directory ) : And then , once the file is in place , you should enter this command in Terminal : Then it will be ready to launch the app SuprSetr at 3:55 a.m. every day . ( Note : if the computer is asleep at 3:55 a.m. , it will run when the computer wakes up . ) From that specific example , once you understand that what this file does does is tell to run the Terminal command : at the hour ' 3 ' and the minute ' 55 ' , then it should be easy to extrapolate from that to other apps that you want to run at other times . Now , if you want to write these all by hand , you can do that for free , but an app like <URL> is a good choice ( I 'd recommend not buying the Mac App Store version , as the app seems to me like something that Apple is not going to like in the world of sandboxing , and you 'd get a more feature-rich app from the developer . My personal preference is for an app called <URL> which is free to try , and then the developer asks for something reasonable like US$ 10 , but there is no DRM , no license codes , but instead relies on the good ol' honor system . ( It 's my hope that people who use it will live up to the developer 's faith in that system . )
I know of no device that is sold to act as a write block that also allow full 1A charging , but <URL> might help you if you wanted a DIY hardware solution for the older 30 pin USB connectors . In the mean time , you have several ways to secure the data without needing a custom piece of hardware . Lock your iOS device with a passcode before connecting it . <URL> . You could go a step further and be ready to power off the device as soon as it 's connected - shortening the window for the OS to be available to the charging station . The devices will still charge and should n't wake up unless it detects a disconnect/reconnect of the USB cord . Be careful to not establish trust with unknown chargers and computers by tapping when prompted by iOS 7 . Furthermore , if you upgrade to iOS 7 , anytime you connect to a computer which could potentially read your data , you are alerted to this fact rather than having the device share all data because it 's not locked with a passcode . This <URL> prevents any access to your device 's storage without a positive user step to allow that access . The device wo n't talk data to the " charging station " until the passcode is entered on the touchscreen . ( Or the astronomically unlikely but theoretically possible chance that the charging station provides the one and only unique to you secure certificate generated and stored on your primary iTunes computer . ) The charging station ca n't try entering passwords one by one - so it 's not like you are at more risk by charging an hour versus 2 minutes .
I use <URL> on my Retina MBP . I can recommend them , however , they are a bit expensive . I have seen workers clean MBP 's screens with it ( though not in an official Apple store , but in a store that sells only Mac related products ) .
ESC and then B moves back one word ESC and then F moves forward one word You can change the terminal settings to more sane shortcuts like ALT + B and such : here 's a link on how to do that <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a limit to the number of newsstand apps I can have installed ?
It 's a shelf for a lot of subscriptions . Many more than the standard folder limits . As conceptually you could see it as a folder , but in fact its a newsstand . I tried to find some documentation on the limit for newsstand and could n't find anything but I 've seen some of my clients have a LOT of subscriptions on their shelves .
This is n't the answer you want but it 's the answer you should listen to : iMessage is n't designed for sending huge long messages . Write an email instead . But if you really want an answer the max characters is 18996 but the catch is that iMessage on OSX ( 10.10.5 ) wo n't let you paste in a single block of text that big . Try breaking up and pasting in smaller 1000 character chunks if you must use this platform to send large amounts of text .
To make the keyboard behave differently , you need a different keyboard layout . You could create one by editing an XLM file manually , or you could use a third-party tool to create the keyboard layout ( you do n't need to be running a third-party program indefinitely once they layout is created and installed ) . <URL> is known for making it fairly easy to create new keyboard layouts for the Mac . In any event , you want to switch the number keys ( 0-9 ) and the symbols attached to them . Save your new keyboard in ~ / Library/Keyboard Layouts , and then select it as your keyboard .
Usually apps do n't place themselves in the dock without your consent or knowledge . There are a couple ways to put them there though . Perhaps you may not realize it , but it may be one of these reasons : The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon installation . Note : Lion will not do this though ; it simply places it in Launchpad . The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon updating an app . Note : Updating an non-docked app individually via the updates tab is when it gets re-placed in the dock . However using the ' Update All ' button at the top of the page will not do any such thing . Again , this is changed in Lion . If you run an app that is not kept in the dock and drag it to another position anywhere on the dock , it will stay in the dock Drag an app into the dock from Finder Right click an app in the dock an under options select ' Keep in Dock '
You can do this using AppleScript : 1 . Open AppleScript Editor 2 . Paste following code : property appName : " Mail " property minSecsBetweenLaunches : 600 -- seconds property checkEvery : 5 -- seconds -- DO NOT MODIFY AFTER THIS LINE IF NOT SURE -- property lastSeenOpen : " " property lastMailState : " " on run idle end run on idle my check ( ) return checkEvery -- check every n seconds end idle on check ( ) tell application " Finder " to set processes_names to name of processes if ( lastMailState is " " ) then -- First run set lastMailState to ( processes_names contains appName ) if lastMailState then set lastSeenOpen to current date end if else if ( processes_names contains appName ) then if ( lastMailState is false ) then -- App just started set lastMailState to true if ( lastSeenOpen is not " " ) then -- Already been launched , check if launch allowed set timeLeft to minSecsBetweenLaunches - ( ( current date ) - lastSeenOpen ) if ( timeLeft > 0 ) then tell application appName to quit activate display dialog " Wait " & timeLeft & " sec . before opening " & appName & " again . " end if end if end if set lastSeenOpen to current date else if ( lastMailState is true ) then -- App just quit set lastMailState to false end if end if end if end check 3 . Adjust settings The 3 first lines of the script can be edited to fit your needs . By default , check every 5 seconds if Mail has not been seen open since 10 min ( which is 600 seconds ) . 4 . Create the app File menu > Export Choose app name &amp; destination select to export as Application check " stay open ... " 5 . Hide from dock In the Finder , find the app you just exported , then right-click on it , and select " Show package content " . Then open " Info.plist " of the " Contents " folder in TextEdit , and , before the last < / dict > of the file , paste : < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > For info , after edit , end of my file looks like : [ ... ] < string > event log < / string > < / dict > < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > < / dict > < / plist > And save it of course . 6 . Set your app as startup item System Preferences > Users > ...
It 's a shelf for a lot of subscriptions . Many more than the standard folder limits . As conceptually you could see it as a folder , but in fact its a newsstand . I tried to find some documentation on the limit for newsstand and could n't find anything but I 've seen some of my clients have a LOT of subscriptions on their shelves .
Two possible answers ... Assuming you 've not actively deleted them from iTunes as well as from your iPhone ... Upgrade to iTunes 10.x if you have n't already Plug your iPhone into your Mac , open iTunes , sync it . Click on the iPhone in the side bar and go to the Apps tab You 'll see that some apps are checked and others are not . This is an indicator of whether or not they 're installed on the device . Pretty sure this got introduced in iTunes 10.x ( hence the first step ) Assuming you do n't delete your old emails ... ( e.g. Archive in GMail ) The iTunes store should have emailed you summaries of the apps you 've purchased ( even the free ones ) shortly after their ' purchase ' , so , if you have an email account where you 've kept those emails , you could search through them to get a list of each app you 've purchased from the iTunes store .
At least for 10.7.5-10 .9.5 the assumption that the number of Get Info windows is restricted to 35 is wrong . Instead the screen resolution and the size of the Get Info window seem to be the restricting factors . Using a 1920x1200 px monitor I get 6 windows in a row and 12 rows ( = 72 windows ) . Trying to get the info on 73 objects and more a summarizing Get Info window will open . Apparently there is no simple hidden numerical threshold of simultaneously opening Get Info windows . To simply have an identical behavior for cmdI and altcmdI map cmdI to altcmdI for the Finder.app with a key remapping app . If you do n't want to use a remapping app use System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts and create custom Finder shortcuts : Get Info - > shiftaltcmdI ( to disable cmdI ) or Get Info - > altcmdI and Show Inspector - > cmdI to swap the shortcuts of Get Info and Show Inspector . The same applies to Get Summary Info ( with a different shortcut of course ) if you prefer to change that one . To quickly close all Get Info windows hit altcmdW or for some system versions alt-click on the close button of one of the windows . All other non-Get Info windows will also be closed though .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
Yes , it is possible , however the only way I know of doing it also hides the dock icon . you must modify the file named ' Info.plist ' inside the Application 's package ( i.e. Sherlock.app / Contents/Info . plist ) . Open this file in your favorite text editor and add the following section ( if it 's already present simply change the 0 to a 1 in the string tag : <URL> In OS X 10.8 + , use this instead ( note LS instead of NS ) :
There 's no default , but you could probably use AppleScript to accomplish this . Hmm ... EDIT : Make an AppleScript to run this shell script :
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
It 's not provided by the system ( nor the XCode installation ) . But you can get it with <URL> ( ) <URL> ( )
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
Safari uses Webkit as it 's rendering engine . If you 're specifically looking for when it began to support HTML5/CSS3 , it as a fully open-source repository where you can review changes commit by commit . As such , you can see the full comprehensive , intricately detailed history here : <URL>
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
Apps which are in the foreground are granted access to the keyboard automatically . Apps which are run by your user account but are not in the foreground require accessibility access to access the keyboard . The list of applications granted access to this is available in System Preferences → Security &amp; Privacy → Accessibility . Here you can add and remove applications to grant and deny access , however some applications may lose functionality . Apps which run as root are not restricted in this way . You will have been required to authorise this before this is permitted . You can check the current list of running root processes in Activity Monitor . Keep in mind there 's no keyboard history maintained -- the apps must be recording it live .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
have a look at <URL> . Its not expensive and it has " Screens " and " Frames " function which both should to be doing what you need .
Every version of Mac OS X has QuickTime . QuickTime Pro is/was an optional paid extra , which included extra codecs and additional functionality . The situation with " classic " Mac OS was rather more complicated , but I 'm guessing you only care about OS X.
end question
start question
On iphone sync , can I skip transfer of purchases from iphone to computer ?
Yes . You can disable app syncing . To do this : With your device connected to iTunes select the " Apps " tab . Under the app listing , deselect " Automatically sync new apps " . New apps will no longer sync with iTunes . They will still backup to iTunes or iCloud , however , so you have no need to fear losing them should your device information be lost . Note : all instructions provided work for iTunes 11 .
As you said , Apple knows what you have purchased and they are all linked to your account . However , transferring your purchases means that the purchased files ( apps , music , movies ... ) will copy from your device ( iPhone 5s ) to your computer then you do n't need to re-download them from the internet .
It 's in the network settings : Wi-Fi join your network if needed tap the blue right arrow Select Static instead of DHCP/BootP and enter in the fixed IP you prefer Visit <URL> if you want pictures to guide you to the network settings part of the settings app . This only works on Wi-Fi since your carrier issues you an IP address . You could also use a VPN profile to tunnel all traffic to a fixed IP if you had a router / server set up to provide that sort of IP / DHCP to iOS devices .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
Briefing Jailbreaking is unofficial so no iphone comes jailbroken unless a individual have purposely installed it . If sim-free iphone is a factory unlocked one as you implied in a comment , there is no direct relation and it does not come jailbroken at all . And never will . As Brad said , even official apps have a good chance to be malware . But , granted , " unofficial " ones do have higher chance . I 'd say the biggest risk you have on jailbreaking , though , is leaving it open for some exploits . Two of the most common ones would be ssh root alpine and breaking through the lockcode . And with not jailbreaking the biggest risk you have is connecting on unsecure wifi . With jailbreaking you have the possibility of arming yourself with more tools both for exposing and fixing security holes so it all depends on how savy you are . Advice I would not use anything I do n't deeply understand to store sensitive information , and it 's not jailbreaking the main issue here . If you lose your iPhone , or someone steal it with the intent to steal information from it , you 're basically screwed - specially if it 's not jailbroken with heavy tweaks and customizations because it makes it all the easier to find exploits . That 's why Windows has so many malwares - because it 's heavily used worldwide and most people will use it with default configurations - so it 's way spread out with more people trying to break it and sharing information on how to do it . I hope you get the point .
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
What happens in your proposed case is that if you delete messages from the iPhone , and then power on your Mac , the Mac will not receive those deleted messages . EDIT : Well , folks , I stand corrected . I certainly believed the above to be the case , but my tests proved otherwise . I sent several messages from multiple devices to other devices that were powered down . Each message was deleted before the recipients were powered back on . Although there was a significant lag in reception ( one took nearly ten minutes ) , all messages that were sent were received , even those that were deleted . Several of the messages were out of sync , which does n't surprise me given the flakiness of the iMessage system during its infancy . However , to the original question , the answer is that messages , deleted or otherwise , eventually find their destination , even to devices that were powered down when those messages were transmitted . ( Hat tip to tubedogg for the correction . )
The jailbreak does not affect the functionality of the phone except to allow MORE things to run on it , so there 's no reason to think it wo n't work for development .
There are a few ways to do this , but the primary way is actually built into iOS . I gathered the information <URL> there is a good comprehensive run down of all the details in setting up a Gmail account and getting the syncing going . Set up Gmail using the Exchange trick so that contact syncing will continue in the future : Open the Settings application on your device 's home screen . Open Mail , Contacts , Calendars . Press Add Account ... Select Microsoft Exchange In the Email field , enter your full Google Account email address . Enter your Google Account password as the Password . Press Next at the top of your screen . Enter m.google.com in the Server field . Leave the Domain field blank . Enter the user email address as the Username . Press Next at the top of your screen again . Select the Google services ( Mail , Calendar , and Contacts ) you want to sync . And then to transfer your contacts to Google it looks like you will need to transfer your current contacts to iTunes : If you have all your contacts on your device and want to import them into Google , you can synchronize your Google Contacts with iTunes . All Contacts and Calendars that you sync with iTunes will be put into the On My iPhone Contacts and Calendar groups on your phone . iOS currently does n't allow you to move Contacts or Calendar events from the On My iPhone groups to the Google Sync groups . Note that you will have to turn off iCloud contacts sync if you sync with iTunes . It wo n't let you transfer that to iTunes otherwise . For another option <URL> to Gmail , and manage syncing . This looked <URL> on setting up the sync using Exchange .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
I know you asked if it was possible over Bluetooth and although my research did n't turn up anything for non-jailbroken phones , here is a WiFi solution which you could use on an Ad-hoc network that would work effectively the same way . Non Jailbroken WiFi : <URL> iPhone to iPhone : <URL> Jailbroken <URL> ( Cydia )
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
You need to use your <URL> application for that and sync the iPhone again . There is no Group support but for reading on iOS . you ca n't create groups you ca n't move to and from groups you can only create a contact in a group if a group exists － Windows user can edit your group through iCloud.com / contacts
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
The second answer concerns Mac OS X ( as I have n't specified the system when asking the question ) . Here is the answer for Windows ( tested on Windows XP SP2 ) : Open cmd.exe by clicking Start menu -- > Run , then type and click . Type : Then you execute the following command ( to get the list of files in this directory without extensions ) : You 'll have the full list of apps ( ordered alphabetically ascending by default ) in the ' AppsList.txt ' file .
You can install from scratch . To do so : Download the update from the App store . Create an install DVD or an <URL> . Boot from the install drive ( Holding alt or option during boot ) . Using disk utility format the desired partition . Launch the install process on the newly formatted partition . Enjoy the fresh install . Edit : One thing to note is the fact that you do n't have to format the entire hard drive . You can only format the partition containing your OS and do the install on that partition . If you want to install Mavericks on a different partition to allow multi boot ( Mavericks/Mountain Lion ) you can use another partition to do so as long as there is enough free space on it . One important tip to remember is the ability of disk utility at creating additional partitions : Open DiskUtility.app Select the desired hard drive Go to the Partitions tab Under the partitions list click on the add button to create a new partition .
EDIT : This has been fixed in recent versions of iOS . Please see @LukeWilliams answer which describes simply pulling to refresh the calendars in the calendars list . For deprecated versions of iOS : As of iOS 5 there is no super easy/obvious way to do this . What I have found that works , is opening Settings > Mail , Contacts , and Calenders > Tapping the email account you 'd like to refresh > turn the calendar off > wait while it deletes it > turn the calendar back on . sometimes by forcing a New Event , it triggers syncing .
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
Yes . You can always restore from and older to a newer iOS version , however you ca n't go from a newer iOS version and restore to an older version .
You can try the install with iPhone Configuration Utility : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Is it possible to use 6GB of memory in my MacBook Pro 3,1 ?
Yes . I own a MacBook Pro 3,1 . I installed 6GB memory and have been using it like that for more than two years . Note the specifications below . You can call the tech support people at <URL> if you have any questions . The RAM in my system is as follows : Bank 0 : 2GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz Bank 1 : 4GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz
Mac OS X home and end keys do not function the same way as they do on other systems . On Mac , the Home and End keys go to the top and bottom of a document , instead of to the beginning or end of a line . Check out this <URL> article which shows how to remap the functionality of the home and end keys to make them perform like they do on other systems .
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
According to Apple Support : Double Data Rate Small Outline Dual Inline Memory Module ( DDR3 ) format 67.6 mm x 30mm ( 1.18 inch ) 2 GB or 4 GB 204-pin PC3-10600 DDR3 1333 MHz type RAM Source : <URL>
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
Nope . The only way you can run iOS apps on OS X is if you have the iPhone Simulator and have a version of the app specifically compiled to run on the simulator . The iPhone Simulator ( available from Xcode ) is not an emulator and ca n't run ARM code , which means that it has to run a specific version of iOS 7 designed for OS X , and is not able to run iOS apps that have not been designed to run on this version of iOS 7 ( i.e. IPAs from the App Store ) .
<URL> your USB stick , to be bootable , must be setup for <URL> / GPT .
Amazon Fire TV requires a TV with an HDMI input channel to display video , something MacBooks ( or pretty much any computer ) are lacking . So no , this will not work ( it wo n't work with an Apple TV/MacBook combination either ) .
Unfortunately this is not possible . The adapter uses a DAC ( digital to analog converter ) to convert the digital audio signal coming from the iPhone to an electrical signal that can be passed to the headphones . The DAC only works in one direction . For the other direction ( record into the iPhone using a microphone ) you 'd need an ADC ( analog to digital converter .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
No , not since 4.2 can you do this because the APN settings disappeared off the devices . Though , there are videos on youtube and tutorials in other places that can walk you through adding the features back on to your device . Whether or not they still work or will work for you depending on your current iOS version installed on iPad is a different story . A particular Video here : <URL> If you read the comments though , it does n't work for everyone , and some people it did work for had issues with their sim cards after about a week of use , with AT&amp;T disabling them . Other people on here might tell you to jailbreak your device and enable tethering but that is your choice . Jailbreaking is n't for everyone . A website here talks about making a wifi hotspot with your iPhone the legal or jailbroken way and talks about the pros and cons of each : <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
One iCloud account is the primary account and only that account can use Find My Phone and Backup services , so to have one account with multiple devices implies that that same account also gets the iCloud backups . However , iCloud does n't co-mingle a backup from one iPhone 5 and another iPhone 5 ( although you may want to choose different names for each to avoid confusion when restoring if you happen to have two of the same device ) . Unless you are OK switching up accounts manually to push a backup to an alternate account and then switch right back , there currently is n't a way to do this with stock / unjailbroken iOS .
Yes . Hold the & #x 2325 ; key while booting up to select your install USB . Also note that if you upgrade to the most recent version of Lion you should get the recovery partition to boot up without having to use the USB ( internet connection required ) .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
You could set your phone up to vibrate on silent and then configure your sounds to be short silent ringtones . Then when your phone is in " normal " mode it will play the silent alerts ( The Sounds of silence ... Yeah should n't try singing ) instead of ringing . Unfortunately you 'd have to set multiple alert sounds ( SMS/iMessage , Ringer , etc. ) but here 's a link to a step by step plus sample ringtones : <URL>
end question
start question
Which MacBook screen should I buy ?
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
It looks like the TexturePacker program includes the ability to process images from the command-line , which you could then batch process with a script . You 'll first want to install the utility by clicking Install Command Line Tool under the TexturePacker menu in the app . Then I 'd suggest having a look at the <URL> , which includes the command-line parameters for most of the options in the app . Have a look at that , and see if you can get the actions you need on the command-line . If you need help turning those into a batch processing script , I 'd suggest coming back and amending your question with the specifics .
I found that on <URL> you can buy iLife ' 09 . If you look at the iLife '09 tech specs , you can see this : Software : Mac OS X v10 .5.6 or later . So that should work for you if you have SL . iLife '09 is also available on <URL> .
If your MBP is early 2011 or newer and there 's an Apple TV on the same wifi network as you , you should see an icon that looks like a TV in the menu bar . Click it and you 'll get a dropdown menu listing all the available Apple TVs ( in case there 's more than one ) . Click yours and you should be good to go ! If your MBP is older than early 2011 , you 'll need a third-party utility of some sort . If you 're willing to shell out $ 15 , I 've heard great things about <URL> .
Try to Option + click on the wifi icon on the menu bar . You 'll see a lot more information about your current wifi connection . It looks something lijke this :
On my MacBook , if I opt-click on the battery in my menu bar , it gives me current the condition of my battery . You can also use <URL> to show the current state of your battery .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
Overall , there are generally not huge problems using another mac to install the OS on to a target mode drive ( same as installing to an external drive ) . The install will work fine and an OS will be present on the drive , but the areas where this will fail are : Using a restore DVD on a mac that is a different model ( retail OS discs have all drivers for macs requiring a lower build number than the retail disk - restore media have a very specific model 's drivers only ) If the <URL> , the mac may or may not boot properly - and some drivers needed for the mac that eventually runs the OS might not get installed . If the installer selects the wrong drivers due to the machine running the install being different than the mac that eventually runs the OS - you may have some problems . Basically , when a new hardware model is released ( new thunderbolt , new logic board design , new battery technology in a portable ) - that change is introduced into a separate OS build . I have never seen a public listing of these specifics broken down by model number , but over time these special builds generally get merged into the " main " OS . Since retail OS DVD change versions maybe once or twice a year , there is a window of time where installing the OS from a machine of type A and running that OS on a machine of type B will have issues due to needed drivers being missing from the retail OS DVD . This chance is much larger if you are using the newest macs and installing across product lines ( MacPro to Air / iMac to MacBook ) . In practice , the core OS usually works and you can boot the mac and most of the hardware will work . Also , usually you can download the latest combo update and hope that it pushes updated drivers when it is run , but there is no guarantee that installing the OS on one mac will work for all other macs across the board . People that run large installations and clone one image on to dozens or hundreds of different macs can attest to the ways this breaks certain hardware from time to time . Recently , iMacs would n't show a wifi card or produce sound when running an OS installed from anything but those new iMacs . For older hardware - doing the install and running the OS - the chance of total success is very high . Stack the odds in your favor by ensuring the <URL> higher than the minimum build for the model you have . For 100 % success , just make sure the mac doing the install is the same as the mac running the OS and use the DVD that came with the mac .
As <URL> you mentioned : For best performance , fill both memory slots , installing an equal memory module in each slot . Get one more 4 GB memory stick and install it . There is no need to throw your existing one and get two of the same kind , since memory chips are rigorously tested for compatibility , especially if you buy from a seller like <URL> or <URL> . The memory sellers would also provide you with the right memory for your system .
The most important upgrade is making the system drive a Solid State Drive ( SSD ) . This alone may double the effective speed of your computer . Extra RAM is a nice second . Since SSDs are usually more expensive than traditional hard drives per GB , you could explore a ' hybrid ' drive , though I 'd recommend the fastest SSD that your Mac 's PCI bus throughput can handle . When I upgraded my old MacBook Pro ( I think it was also a 2009 model ) , large SSDs were still expensive , so I bought a 128MB SSD for the main system drive and moved the existing HDD into the spot where the Optical Drive was ( with a special mounting bracket ) , and put the Optical Drive in a cheap external USB case . I found all the parts on eBay for under $ 250USD and was honestly shocked at how much faster that MacBook performed .
You should go for the 64bit version . Apple is more and more leaning towards 64 bit adoption . In the end , unless it 's some heavy processing application , you wo n't even feel the difference with the 32bit version . But at least you 'll be ready for the future :)
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
Let 's differentiate a user being one individual from a user being a single UNIX user account . As for the purpose of limiting privileges to the computer account and not for the individual operating it , creating two separate user accounts in Mac OS X is overkill and if you ask me rather impractical . Even an administrator account lacks the privileges to modify anything system critical without authenticating as the root user , which requires manually re-entering your password . The only significant extra privilege an administrator account has is the ability to switch to the root ( privileged ) account . If you are familiar with the command in the shell , this is very much the same thing . You would create a regular user account as opposed to an administrator account if you want to limit privileges of the individual operating the computer , for example with kids or employees .
If you have an external display attached with an external mouse/trackpad and keyboard , closing the lid will not put the machine in standby mode . You can keep using the computer with those devices . Check <URL> Apple link to read the official statement about it . Requirements for closed display mode : Power adapter External keyboard , mouse , or trackpad External display
I do n't believe there 's a way to do it without jailbreaking . Because of the security restrictions on what apps can access , and particularly the limited functionality when running in the background , I 'm pretty sure it 's impossible without jailbreaking ( and maybe even if you do jailbreak ) . If you 're looking to make a screen-cast or something similar , the technique I 've heard is popular ( at least with <URL> , who does a lot of iOS app videos ) is using the iPhone simulator included with Xcode .
You can do it via an Applescript and run it as such : Dimmer : Brighter : You can save these as . script files and then run them from the CLI like this : You can also do it <URL> , but that requires more setup .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
If you install the X11 subsystem , it will only run when you have an X11 program running . Much the same as when installing the JVM - that will only run when you run a Java program .
I do n't have a source , but the thing is that the iPad/iPhone AppStore is different than the Mac Apple Store . The iPhone game costs 0.99 , whereas the iPad version ( optimized for the larger screen ) is more expensive , yet these two apps are in the same Store . Since there 's no way ( thanks the Apple ) to provide free upgrades to the Mac Apple Store for existing customers , Rovio charges you for the game again if you want it in your Mac , no matter how easy it was to port for them . It was probably not a super hard task , but in terms of administrative work , they have no choice unless they 'd wanted to give it away for free , which clearly they are n't . So the answer is yes , you have to buy it again from the Mac Apple Store .
The benefit is , well , these other services will work . The drawback is another active network interface , increased chatter on your local network , and a few extra watts blasting at you . That said , there are a few things that can be done to minimize the disruption . Personally I find AirDrop to be totally useless when Messages can do everything better : it can easily transfer files over Bonjour with another Mac running not just ML 's Messages but also iChat . My office of 60ish users rely on iChat ( and now Messages ) enough to where " to iChat " has become verbified around here . AirDrop is 10.8 only . Also , Messages can be set to auto-accept incoming file transfers , look in Preferences > Alerts , change the Event to Incoming file transfer , check the Run AppleScript box and choose the Auto Accept default . AirDrop has no such options . iTunes wifi synch definitely works best if the Mac 's wifi is on , but I do n't think wi-fi synch is particularly useful ; I 'd rather have a faster synch that uses less battery life . Finally , AirPlay quality depends on many factors , such as your network hardware , signal strength , interference , and the remote devices . Both my 2nd-gen AirPort Express and then my <URL> would stutter and drop off my mixed b/g network from my Linksys WRT350N - until I replaced its firmware with <URL> Since then both have worked flawlessly . Your mileage , of course , may vary .
end question
start question
How can I synchronize old notes with an email account on the iPhone ?
Syncing the notes to your computer , then moving the notes to your email notes and letting it sync back to the phone would be the easiest . Without syncing you could email each note to yourself by clicking the envelope icon at the bottom of each note . Then turn it into a note in your email account , of course this would take a long time but you would n't have to sync with your computer .
As Robin says , most people would go for OS X Server , because it has tools specifically built to do just this , providing you bind the clients to LDAP . Aside from that , OS X is designed hierarchically . You could try just adding the desired . plist files in / Library/Preferences instead of ~ / Library/Preferences and then deleting said files , if they already exist , from ~ / Library/Preferences ( since files in ~ / Library generally override those in / Library ) There is also the default " User Template " hiding in the System Folder , from which all new users ' home folders are created . You could edit this , but the change would only affect accounts created after the imaged machines have their first boot .
The easiest way to schedule a workflow is to use iCal for the scheduling : if you have followed the steps of the tutorial you linked to to the letter and have saved the workflow as an iCal reminder , Automator will have added a new event named like your workflow to a local calendar called " Automator " ( creating it if it does ' t exist yet ) . This event has a reminder set to execute the workflow 0 minutes before the event . To execute it every day on 4 a.m. , just schedule the event that way ( you could also set it to only repeat on weekdays -- or to anything iCal will let you do with a scheduled event ) . To make sure the triggering event itself is not included , make sure the " Filter iCal Calendar " action ( the 1st step of your workflow ) excludes the " Automator " calendar -- either because filter conditions will bypass it anyway , or by setting a filter condition to " Name is not Automator " . You can hide the " Automator " calendar from displaying in iCal by unchecking its checkbox in iCal 's calendar list , thus making your workflow execute invisibly for all practical purposes . Also note iCal does not need to run for the event to be triggered , but you must be logged in and the computer should not be sleeping ( a workaround for that last gotcha is to <URL> -- this would also be necessary if you scheduled with or ) . The actual workflow is to be found in and can be set to a " open file " reminder on any event , should you ever need to do so .
Go to Settings > Mails , ... > Fetch New Data > Advanced From there , you can chose how to get new email from each account . It could be push , fetch ( every X minutes ) or manual ( only when you open the app )
Maybe the trash folder is not correctly set on your iPhone . Depending on the email-provider , you may have to choose the correct " deleted " folder in your account settings on the iPhone . ( maybe the translations are not literally , i am using a German iPhone ) : Go to " Settings " - > " Mail , contacts ... " , choose your IMAP account , choose " account info " , look at the bottom and choose " advanced " . Here you can choose which folder is your trash folder .
Did you try Multiscreener ? I have used this in the past and worked flawlessly for 3 day runs . <URL>
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
OS X 10.11.4 supports Evernote import to Notes ( import of the . enex file format ) . Imported content to OS X 's Notes can be synced to Notes on iOS devices then . Source : AppleInsider : <URL> , February 9th 2016 9to5mac has a how-to for it : <URL> .
Syncing Google Contacts via CardDAV will allow you to store the relationship information in your address book entry . See <URL> for instructions .
Open Mobile Safari and visit <URL> Sign in and navigate up to the list of folders . There 's a gear wheel in the top right , tap it . In here you can set your ' mobile ' signature and opt to use it instead of your desktop signature . This will now also apply to mail sent via the Gmail app . EDIT Theres an update to the gmail app that allows you to do the same thing but from within the app . Show the menu by clicking the icon in the upper left of the screen and you 'll see a gear wheel . Tap that and you can set your mobile signature in there .
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
Try adding in front of your email address . I 'm not familiar with Windows 8 , but with previous versions this directs Windows to perform authentication on the local system , rather than on the domain in which it resides . If this does n't work , try also , where is the name of the computer you are trying to log into .
There used to be , as MobileMe did keychain syncing . Indeed , that was the only reason I was a subscriber . Since iCloud , that feature is no longer available . I now use <URL> for my password syncing . It is n't quite as good as keychain syncing ( non-browser applications ca n't really use it ) , but for most stuff it 's dandy .
I 'm not sure what fixed it ( restarting the phone ? waiting a few days ? ) , but now the sync is back to normal and I see the spinner icon whenever the notes are updated .
Sorry , but no . As of iOS 5 , there 's no method for the user to adjust font/interface sizes unless the app gives you a specific control for it . iOS Mail does have a setting for minimum font size , but it only applies to the body of the message , not the message lists .
Yes , you do n't have to keep that folder according to <URL> / EDIT It 's the backup of old Xcode installation .
Battery Drop of 5 % in two hours is not bad A battery drop of 5 % within two hours is not bad at all . How much does it drop throughout an entire day ? How long can you use it for taking a few calls , browse a little ? If it only drops heavily , when not in airplane mode , please check your battery usage : Replacement Apple offers an about $ 80 ( + $ 7 shipping ) battery replacement-program for iPhones <URL> Alternatively , if you - or a friend of you - like to fix things yourself you could consider a iFixit iPhone 5s Battery replacement kit , which is about $ 30 ( without shipping ) <URL> iFixit provides very useful guides of how to fix electronic devices from Apple or other manufacturers . Check warranty You might want to also check your warranty status : <URL> If you have an AppleCare Protection Plan they might replace the battery for free !
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
end question
start question
Podcast App Double Speed Missing ?
It 's still there ! Between the podcast artwork and the progress bar , tap the 1x icon to change the speed . On iPhone 4S and below , tap on the artwork to bring it up .
Gigabit ethernet to gigabit ethernet . Next would be FireWire 800 to FireWire 800 . Thunderbolt target disk mode is testing to be equivalent to FireWire 800 in target disk mode . It looks like the OS can keep a gigabit link fuller than target disk mode is able , even when the target mode link has vastly higher bandwidth available .
That 's correct . So long as the original photo remains in the Camera Roll , Photos is able to undo edits . However , if you send it to another iPhone user , they will only have the edit itself , not the original , so they can not revert back . Also , if the image is deleted from Photos , you can not recover the original . Note : Photo Stream does not support this . Any edits made to an image in Photo Stream will be saved to Camera Roll . Likewise , and edits made in Camera Roll that are uploaded to Photo Stream , Photo Stream will only have the revision and will not be able to revert .
Better than would be to NFS mount your shares over a private network interface running the <URL> . Once mounted , inside the host OS , you 'd rsync in the data with : Or whatever you wanted . Someone already mentioned <URL> and , on its own it wo n't speed up your VirtualBox setup , but it does make doing things like mounting in <URL> much , much easier than doing it by hand . For example , here 's a Vagrantfile that ups <URL> and mounts your Documents directory on your machine via NFS using virtio drivers to on the image . It requires root priveledges to work . You 'll need to add : to your sudoers file via for it to work . Once you 've put that Vagrantfile on disk all you have to do is cd to the directory where you saved it and run and you 're in business . To connect it 's or you can uncomment that line I left in there to run it with a display head . That 's the fastest configuration I know of for host/guest I/O with VirtualBox running Linux as a guest OS .
You can go to in the system preferences and select for your printer . In there , you should see an option for ( if your printer supports it ) . If that is checked , you can use the automatic double-side printing ( by checking the box next to ) . If not , or if that option is unavailable , you ca n't . In case you ca n't select that option , here 's how you can manually print double-sided pages . Manual double-side printing You can control manual double-side printing ( i.e. , you physically turn the sheets over ) using the setting in the print dialog . If you select , you 'll find a option that lets you print either only the odd pages or only the even pages ( default is both ) . To print double side manually , select first and when it finishes printing , flip the pages over and select Instead of flipping each page over to its blank side before printing the even pages , you have a more convenient option of flipping the entire block of pages , so that the last sheet is on top ( useful when you have a lot of pages to be printed ) . With this , you can then choose in to print the even numbered pages backwards . ( Note : be careful that if you have an odd-number of pages in total , you might have to leave the last one out before printing the even ones . )
They 're in the iTunes . plist-file on a Mac . Since you do n't specify platform , I ca n't offer that much . In Windows , they 're almost certainly stored in a similar preference file . In Mac OS X , they 're not conveniently readable . If you just want to back up your subscription info , locating and backing up the iTunes preferences will do it . If you need to scrape/publish the subscription info , that 's beyond my capabilities . Hope this at least gives you a jumping-off point .
No , Apple is ditching optical media , even when the computer has an optical drive .
Most switching power supplies use an EMI filter on the front , that looks like this : <URL> -- Schematic created using <URL> The " ground " is connected to the " ground " on the secondary side as well as the earth pin on the plug . If the plug has no earth pin ( or the socket does not have it ) , then when you touch it and an earthed object , a small current flows trough caps C2 and C3 . In most power supplies there is also a small capacitor bridging the primary and secondary windings of the transformer ( again , for EMI reasons ) .
From the Podcasts view ( left tab ) , press the Edit button at the top left ( you may need to scroll up to see it ) . Each podcast will have an ( x ) button in its top left corner . Hit that button ( it 's small and can be tricky , but it works ) to remove the podcast . Use the Done button at the top left when you 're finished editing .
Although I never usually have any luck finding them , I used MacWorld 's guide , " <URL> " , and I was able to find the hidden preference : Type the above into Terminal , replacing with the number of seconds you want the banner to last for , and press return . Then , log out and log back in to reload Notification Center .
I had a white MacBook with roughly the same specifics ( except for a 160 GB HD ) and it would n't run so slowly . You can try the following software fixes : Go to System Preferences - > Users and disable unnecessary login items . These items are executed right after login . Go to and disable unnecessary startup items . These items are executed before login , just after boot . This is safe because essential system scripts are not placed there . Do n't touch anything in , instead . Use Activity Monitor and identify third-party daemons and processes that are running in background . Disable/uninstall unnecessary software . Open Console and look for unusual error messages . Clear and . Check and -- if needed -- repair your hard drive . You can do this booting with <URL> . Check and repair permissions with Disk Utility . Go to Dashboard and close unnecessary widgets . Some widgets run in background and use system resources . Only if you know what you 're doing , you could also check third-party kernel extensions . Hardware improvements : Buy a SSD . The spinning hard drive is the greatest bottleneck in modern laptops . If you 're running short of RAM , consider upgrading to 8 GB if your machine supports it ( 4 GB should be enough , though ) .
Yes . It is known that FSEvents is the basis for Time Machine , and in fact Spotlight indexing as well before that . In both cases , it acts as a tripwire for the relevant parts of your system , so that Time Machine knows what it needs to back up and Spotlight knows what it needs to index . However , using FSEvents for backups does leave a tiny bit of room for error , as you have probably discovered . <URL> details another idiosyncrasy . <URL> is a brilliant little app that can help you delve into the FSEvents world if you are interested . At the end of the day , Time Machine is n't really considered professional-grade . It 's brilliant for what it is , and I still use it , but I highly recommend pairing it with something like a weekly full disk clone ( off-site if possible ) for a more comprehensive backup strategy .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
The Apple discussions thread <URL> is exactly what your are looking for : No . An adult would have to do that for you . To have a developer account you must be 18 or older . ... You can always start a corporation and the individual age restriction is not relevant anymore .
Lion is not meant to be used in 32bit mode . Also addressing more than 4GB ram with 32bit kernel is slower ( it uses <URL> ) . If the only reason of using Lion in 32bit mode is the Cisco VPN client ( yuck ! ) there is a way . Here is an <URL> explaining how to use the native VPN client instead - it 's for 10.6 , but should work . It 's a matter of configuration , not of software . And here is a <URL> that pointed to thad solution . About the Cisco VPN 3000 hardware - yes , it works with iOS and native OSX VPN client in IPSec mode , and it 's a matter of software update and configuration . You should be running at least 4.7.2 P according to the <URL> . It 's stated that it 's not supported , but it works . Here is another <URL> . Make sure that you 're using at least OSX 10.7.2 . ps . being tight on money is not always bad , It usually makes people more creative and makes them think and learn new things . Direct your network admin to <URL> , a place I 'm sure he will get decent help .
When you update your OS - ( if it contains a Mail.app update ) it will replace the previous version of the app with the new one and by doing this it will also replace the icon file . Anyway something that you can try after you 've replaced the icon again : 1 . Open Terminal and enter this command - 2 . Enter your password and press Enter 3 . WITHOUT switching to other windows press CMD + TAB and select Finder 4 . Press CMD + N this will open a new Finder Window with root privileges ( BE EXTREMELY CAREFUL WHAT YOU DO ) 5 . Press CMD + G and enter 6 . Find the ( it should be the new one you chose ) file - Right Click it and select 7 . Check the attribute . 8 . Go back to the terminal window and press CONTROL + C this will close the Finder Window . This should prevent it from being overwritten Command line alternative :
There are applications that let you control how much of each color component in the display generated by your machine gets to the monitor . An example of this is <URL> . These are useful for adjusting your monitor for night time viewing , and other special cases . Unless you have something like this running on BOTH the machines , it 's likely that the problem is either with the monitor itself , or with the cable . Are you connecting via VGA or DVI ? A problem with the cable would n't manifest like that on DVI , but could on VGA , where individual pins literally correspond to component colors . If on VGA , try another cable and see if that helps . If that does n't work , it 's most likely that the monitor is broken .
System Information ( formerly known as System Profiler ) will show you some information about the built-in camera ( which Apple calls the iSight ) , but I do n't see frame rate , exposure time , or shutter speed mentioned here . In my specific case , the manufacturer is listed as Apple , and they likely do n't want to publish this information . Apple treats the built-in iSight as a simple checkbox feature ( a computer has it or it does n't ) , not as a detailed specs feature ( like memory size , hard drive size , screen size , network speed , etc ) . To view the information available about your Mac 's built-in iSight , go to the Apple menu , choose About This Mac , then choose System Report ... . From there , go into the Hardware section , choose USB , and look in the USB Device Tree for Built-in iSight . <URL> is a company that often disassembles Apple products to try to determine things like the cost of the bill of materials , specific parts used , and unadvertised specs or capabilities of the hardware . You could visit their site and see if your machine is covered there , or if there 's another way to get information about your machine .
1 . Tap on an individual subscription or " Unplayed Episodes " : 2 . Tap on the blue disclosure indicator : 3 . This will display the show notes for that episode :
Typically , the method that you described will work . However , in some ( rare ) cases , the app will change the way it stores settings and other information , and that would cause the old version to misbehave until you delete the app 's settings ( usually found in the Library folder ) and start anew . But , as far as the App Store goes , your method is pretty much the only way to go , and the App Store should n't complain if you reinstall the old version .
end question
start question
Are there any Lion optimized text editors with VIM keybindings ?
Check <URL> , it is still in beta and they have adding full-screen support in Lion but not others you mentioned . And you can use <URL> too . <URL> is also working on some of the Lion refinements ( the ones that are included have some rough edges ) - it 's certainly not stable since it 's being fixed as the days go by , but as an open-source program , you can see the bugs/defects and know when the features you care are shipped or have issues .
If you 're specifically asking if you can maintain your current data plan when ordering via Apple , you can do that . Alternatively , you 'll also be able to change your data plan to other plans that are currently offered by your carrier . Part of the ordering process ( when ordering through anyone : Apple , a carrier , Best Buy , etc. ) is selecting your plan , and that part of the process contacts your carrier 's systems . On the first day people can preorder , this results in the carriers ' systems being crushed due to all the demand . Once your carrier 's system has been contacted , the store you 're buying from then knows if you 're eligible for subsidized contract pricing or if you 'll have to pay unsubsidized pricing . The store also knows your current plan , and so is able to offer that as an option if you have a grandfathered plan that is n't available to new subscribers . Ergo , the process for buying an iPhone will be pretty similar no matter where you buy it from . Pick a store based on whatever criteria you wish : availability of the specific model you want , convenience of store location , store loyalty plan , etc. .
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
MacroMates has an <URL> on keybindings for TextMate on their site .
You can do this with Inkscape : To change output resolution you can set the DPI value : <URL> are more command line options .
The theory behind it is that it gets a lot more battery life when in deep sleep/hibernation than otherwise . Apple says after about an hour the computer should go into deep sleep . See <URL> for further information and how to disable it . ( The actual disabling instructions are in the question itself . )
There are a couple of gotchas I 'm aware of . If you buy apps on both iTunes accounts , they all get listed together when updates become available , not just the ones on the account you 're currently signed into . So if you click ' download all free updates ' iTunes will only download the updates for the account which is signed in . This can be confusing because you 've told it to download all free updates and it does n't tell you why it has n't downloaded the others . If you have an Apple TV and you want to use Home Sharing , then you can only share the content for one account at a time .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
Not even the official Microsoft RDP Client for OS X supports this ; in fact that product still can not do Terminal Services Gateway connections that were introduced with Windows Server 2008 But the answer to your question is , yes there is at least one client that promotes full RemoteFX implemetation in their OS X client ( and incidentally also TSG ) , and that 's <URL> . It is a commercial program however there is a trial version available from that page . Update : it looks like iTap do n't fully support RemoteApp The only other client I can find is one by Thinomenon . <URL> supports all versions of the RDP protocol up to 7 ( RemoteApp requires 6.1 or greater )
As long as you have n't excluded something manually from the backup it will backup everything , except some cache and log files . I do also have custom programs in , , ... and everything still worked after restoring the system from my Time Machine backup . There is a good collection of <URL> on the web you may like to consult .
Enabling TRIM on third party SSDs You can enable TRIM on third party SSDs by using a tool called <URL> which " works by patching a kernel extension , and also includes some SMART data to check the health of the SSD drive " . [ <URL> ] I do n't know if buying similar drive will get you TRIM to be auto-enabled in Lion . User <URL> reports that he has bought an OEM-SSD which auto-enabled TRIM in Lion after installation . [ <URL> ] According to user <URL> , Apple usually uses custom firmware . [ <URL> ] Is enabling TRIM necessary ? User <URL> has covered this as a part of his <URL> to a post " Optimize MacBook Pro for internal SSD+HDD drives " .
I think you 'll find <URL> a good substitute for Adobe Photoshop . It will do everything on your list and it costs $ 14.99 .
You have to purchase a credit review and have your credit approved in order to enroll in the program . That is the only cost to enroll . Be aware that this is for large companies that intend to sign an NDA , receive Apple confidential information and pay royalties for access to and/or participation in the program . The credit check is required so that Apple can ensure your company has the financial resources to bear the costs of participating in the program : From <URL> : Why do I need to complete a credit review ? A credit review must be completed in order to determine your company 's ability to meet the financial obligations associated with the MFi Program .
As far as I can see , there is not . Developing such a Sugar might not be possible from my ( very limited ) understanding of the Espresso plugin documentation -- <URL> look like the best match , but the API does not seem to offer the kind of access needed for automatic highlighting . Note I have n't delved into the ObjectiveC plugin docs ( because there are none -- the headers included with Espresso are the docs , and my understanding of ObjectiveC and Cocoa is slim , to say the least ) .
The best set of earphones might depend upon your preferences , your goals , your budget , and other consideration , so let me focus on giving you some background and explaining how you can educate yourself and make an informed decision . If what you care about is sound quality , I recommend taking a look at <URL> and <URL> . You can read through dozens and dozens of knowledgeable reviews of headphones there . <URL> provides an excellent buying guide for shopping for headphones . If you care about sound quality , I do not recommend relying on mainstream sources ( e.g. , Cnet , random web sites , tech magazines , etc. ) for headphone reviews . They have extremely poor knowledge about this topic and are often a poor judge of sound quality ; I 'm often disappointed with their reviews . There are several <URL> of headphones : earbuds , full-sized circumaural hadphones ( these go around your ear , but do not rest on the ear itself ) , full-sized supra-aural headphones ( these have pads that rest on the ear ) , and in-ear monitors . The circumaural and supra-aural headphones can be " open " or " closed " . Each of these varieties has different tradeoffs . Earbuds are small headphones that fit loosely in your outer ear . They are portable , cheap , and widely available , but give the worst sound quality . Circumaural headphones can give excellent sound quality and are comfortable , but they 're large and not so portable . Supra-aural headphones can give very good sound quality . Opinions vary about their comfort , and they 're not so portable . In-ear monitors go inside your ear canal and form a tight seal . They are basically like earplugs , with a tiny speaker inserted into them . They offer excellent sound quality ( in my opinion , the very best sound quality ) . They offer very good portability . They 're also very good for travel ( because they block outside noise ) . However , they tend to be expensive , and some people do n't like having something stuck in their ear . Also , they are not so good for walking/running , because a bone-conductance effect causes you to hear a thud every time your foot strikes the ground . As far as open vs closed ( which only applies to the full-sized circumaural/supra-aural variety ) : Open headphones do n't try to provide any seal . This means that if you use them in a room with others , other people may be able to hear some of what you are hearing . If you 're using headphones to avoid bothering others , you might not want open headphones . Closed headphones provide a bit of a partial seal , so you wo n't bother others . Personally , I love in-ear monitors . I love the Etymotics ER-4P ; they are an outstanding quality , a reference in this space . Shure , Westone , Ultimate Ears , and others also make very high quality in-ear monitors . If you care about sound quality , you 'll be amazed by the difference in sound quality between your Apple stock earbuds and good in-ear monitors ( or really , any quality headphone ) ; the difference is enormous . You 'll pay a lot more , but in my opinion , if you can afford it , it 's worth it . If what you care about is that they 're cheap , you might want to look at earbuds . If you 're looking for medium-priced open supra-aural headphones , Grado has pretty good value ( SR-60 or SR-80 ) . For full-sized headphones , Sennheiser is a standard , well-respected brand . But see the buying guide for more specific recommendations . Since you mentioned you want headphones with a microphone capability , you could look at <URL> , such as the <URL> or <URL> ; both are advertised as providing support for the iPhone , microphone , and full 3-button remote control . I 'm sure there are many other excellent options from other vendors ; I mention the Etymotics ones only because I 'm a happy customer of their other products . I 'm afraid I do n't have any data on durability . All I can tell you is that I 've had my Etymotics ER-4P headphones for over a decade now ( heavily used : I use them daily ) , with no problems . You can find price information via the web or at your favorite store .
Check <URL> , it is still in beta and they have adding full-screen support in Lion but not others you mentioned . And you can use <URL> too . <URL> is also working on some of the Lion refinements ( the ones that are included have some rough edges ) - it 's certainly not stable since it 's being fixed as the days go by , but as an open-source program , you can see the bugs/defects and know when the features you care are shipped or have issues .
After many search I find <URL> it 's done what I want . TuneUp is an easy-to-use and powerful plug-in for iTunes &amp; Windows Media Player , and also available for both Mac and windows .
Here is your answer to that : No , it is not supported . Source : <URL>
If Chrome is n't too heavy for you <URL> has very capable spreadsheet facilities that improve all the time . You can even <URL> if you 're going to be away from an internet connection .
Is this <URL> what you 're thinking of ? QuickCursor brings your favorite text editor * to any app with a global keyboard shortcut . Unlike manually copying and pasting between apps , QuickCursor automates the entire process to save you time . To use <URL> with QuickCursor , add it 's bundle ID ( com.sublimetext .2 ) to the custom bundle ID field in the QuickCursor preferences .
end question
start question
Why are Photo Stream process running , but photos only loads when iPhoto is opened ?
This is primarily targeted towards Shared Photostreams . When someone streams a picture you will get notified ( via Notification Center ) that a new picture/comment ( or like on your photo ) has been posted . As a result this process must run all the time . iPhoto only loads/displays the photos for you to see . If you desire to disable it , you can go to open System Preferences - > iCloud - > Disable Photo Stream .
Check if you have the new Gmail app installed . Every time it gets a new email , it triggers the " iphone Text Message sound " . The sound can be disabled via Settings app > Notifications > Gmail > uncheck Sound .
Yes . This is a feature usually only offered by professional photo software . Removing metadata ( like or ) requires an additional step by the one that wants to share his/her photograph . Aperture for example offers to export picture as either an original or a version . When you choose to export a version the meta - and gps-data is removed from the original . I know from experience that sharing via the following options does not remove these and from pictures : Mail for OS X Tweetdeck for OS X Uploading via a web browser Here 's what the metadata of an export as original look like : Here 's what the metadata of an export as version by Aperture look like . This is an exported version of the same original . The data will differ depending on the export options for a version .
It 's supposed to use the phone 's processor to do the voice recognition instead of sending the recording to the cloud to recognize as the Siri app does . This ( apparently ) requires the A5 processor . It probably does n't hurt , though , that it 'll push 4S units .
If you go to the Apple logo : Then : click ' About This Mac ' This opens a window with four tabs . The ' overview ' tab shows the current system you are running .
Currently it ca n't . Photo Stream settings are detected via the iCloud preference pane and is global to your machine . Until it can support multiple iCloud accounts , iPhoto can only connect to one Photo Stream at a time . Since it 's only a temporary store of the last photos taken I am assuming Apple will most likely not make this possible . I normally move my photos from the Photo Stream to Flickr to achieve this since you can have multiple Flickr accounts . Look into <URL> with photo upload if you want to merge photos from multiple devices into one collective stream . From there you can use the Mac client and Folder Actions to automate importing , processing and other tasks as needed .
You can only manually add photos to photostream from iPhoto or Aperture not from the iOS device currently , So you 'd need to sync with iPhoto and manually add to photostream through that .
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
Go back one screen to the main Photo Stream screen . From there , tap on the blue arrow for the Shared Photo Stream you want to change , and you can edit the name , subscribers , etc. . Main screen showing the blue arrow on the right : Sub-screen after tapping on the Photo Stream I want to modify :
As we have found the solution using Comments , here 's the formal response . Whenever you experience issues with Safari , App Store , iTunes and any other service that uses the " same " WebKit , but seem to see no problem in Google Chrome or Firefox , it 's good to check if you have your Proxies configuration clear . Since sometimes Chrome ( and Firefox ) override these settings ( for their own multi platform stuff ) , they may work while the formers fail . This is easily checked by opening Safari - > Preferences - > Advanced - > Proxies ( Change Settings ) . Make sure Autodiscover is not checked . It should probably look all empty like this : note/off-topic : the Use PASV FTP is usually a good idea if you are behind a router/modem/NAT like Airport Extreme or AirportExpress ( or any other to be honest ) , since FTP was not designed to be used behind these " hacks " . In any case , if you do n't know what it is , you can safely ignore it , but if you have FTP problems every now and then ( or FTP is slow as hell ) , check that and try again . The local ignores for proxies was added by the Operating System , but it 's usually a good idea to have your local stuff ignore the proxy . ;)
I do n't believe you can , maybe with jailbreaking ? However , after setting the wallpaper , you can remove it from your photo library without affecting your wallpaper selection . This may be a bit inconvenient when you regularly switch between wallpapers , but it is as close as it gets .
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
The PhotoBooth Library is within the Pictures folder of your Home Folder . Regarding automatic backup , there is no direct way to do it as Photo Booth does not have many options for that . You can try following : Get <URL> for Google Photos . Alternative way to get it is by opening the sidebar on Google Photos in your browser and clicking App downloads . After installing the app and logging into your Google account , you can select which folders Google Photos will automatically back up . So try to add this path to auto backup : You can right-click " Photo Booth Library " , and select " Show Package Contents " to see the Pictures folder , or open directly from Terminal with :
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
Turn your iPhone sideways and in the upper left hand corner hit the down arrow . Then select " Hidden Photos " . This will show you a list of the photos you 've hidden . Tap one , hit edit , and tap the " X " again to unhide it .
Try typing this into terminal : This should output details about which jar file is open in the runtime . Alternatively , to find out which applications are using the Java Runtime select java in the activity monitor and clicking on the blue i icon . Click and see if it gives you a clue which application launched the java environment . You 'd be surprised which applications depend on Java ! You could also try going into the Java System Preference , clicking the Java Tab and choosing . You 'll see a list of registered Java applications that might help you find the culprit .
Hard linked files share the same inode ( which kind of identifies the file in the filesystem ) . So what you can do is to get the path of two photos which should be the same ( " Reveal in Finder " in the old application , probably something similar in the new ) , open Terminal and run to see whether the number is really the same .
It is not possible to disable Auto-Lock for specific apps through iOS settings . A workaround is to manually disable Auto-Lock in settings , run the app , and then enable it again once you 're done . An app can request iOS to disable Auto-Lock . In this case , you should <URL> for an update to allow this .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
Yes , iPhoto for iOS shows the date , time and if available address of the taken photo .
end question
start question
Are Apple keyboards multi-key rollover ?
Current Apple keyboards ( as of 2012 ) are not N-Key rollover and as far as I know no recent keyboard they have ever made is . I think some of the really old ones were N-key rollover , but ca n't confirm it . You can use <URL> to test your keyboard - click on the embedded flash app and press several keys simultaneously Beware that every keyboard has a different electronic layout and will fail in different key combinations . On my Apple Aluminium keyboard if I hold down the and keys , then press the key , the third key press does not register . But there are other key combinations where as many as six keys will register at once . It is commonly said that true N-Key rollover can only be achieved using a PS/2 keyboard , and that USB keyboards can only achieve 6-key rollover . As far as I know , this limitation only applies to Microsoft Windows . My mechanical keyboard 's spec sheet claims " 6-key rollover with USB , N-key rollover with USB to PS/2 adapter " . When using it with USB on my Mac , I 've confirmed that is in fact 20-key rollover .
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
Basically you have to decide what is most important to you . Do you want to have the widest range of content offerings ( Roku ) , or the best compatibility between other Apple devices and software ( Apple TV ) ? The Roku box for example can play Hulu and Hulu Plus . The Hulu service is in very high demand and a very good content stream for the Roku . The Apple TV at this time will not play it out of the box , although it can be hacked to do so . The biggest advantage that the Apple TV has is if you own or plan to use an iOS device in conjunction with it . For example , you can use AirPlay to stream music , photos , video , and apps to your Apple TV . This can be very handy in many situations . If you do n't already have an iPhone , iPad , or the like - and do n't plan on getting one anytime soon , then this should n't be a big draw . The Apple TV also works flawlessly with iTunes . For example you can use iTunes Match then stream the audio to your Apple TV very easily . Roku can do some similar things with iTunes , but is does not have the same level of integration . Overall , both devices have benefits and downsides , it just depends what you think your primary use will be and what hardware ecosystem you have . For more detailed information I would take a look at <URL> .
BBEdit 's latest release is REALLY good . I first encountered BB way back in the day on OS7 , and it was more editor than I needed at the time , and it only confused me . Since then I 've become a much heavier-duty text editor user , and when they brought out a new release a couple months ago I pulled the trigger . It 's EXCELLENT . Every feature I 've wanted , it 's had for me , waiting to discover . Ca n't recommend it highly enough . You can find it on the App Store .
Yes , iOS multitouch will track 11 independent touch positions in the current SDK ( iOS 7 ) . However , the springboard app wo n't launch but one app at a time , so the answer is no to having more than one app run due to precise multitouch tapping the home screen .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
You can change the text editing bindings for Cocoa apps with DefaultKeyBinding.dict . This will work for almost all applications where the ⌘ command + ← left and ⌘ command + → right worked before . ( The only way it would n't work is if the application creator reimplemented those shortcuts from scratch , which is doubtful as it would be much easier to just use the versions that come free with a textfield . ) If the directory does not exist , create it . Create the file in that directory with contents like this : The refers to the Command key , is Option , is Left , and is Right . The selectors on the right-hand side are the same ones used in the default file , , but switched around to match what you said in your question . Restart an application for the changes to take effect in it . <URL> .
I 'm from the same boat ; the best native keyboard-only I 've found is CTRL-DOWN-Arrow ; ( you enter app expose ) DOWN-arrow ; ( if there are any minimized windows , this 'll put a cursor on one ) LEFT-arrow/RIGHT-arrow ( to select from multiple minimized windows ) or hold OPT if you want all of them restored . RETURN alternative step1 : getting into app expose before you 've alt-cmd ' ed to an app : with CMD still held down , ( the task switcher is visible ) tap DOWN , or UP , or 1 ( now in app expose ) The above shows only one app 's minimized windows at a time ; for selecting from any minimized window regardless of app , CTRL-F3 moves focus to the dock , and you can arrow left to get to the minimized list . if your CTRL-F3 instead shows you the app-expose , try FN-CTRL-F3 . ( In my settings/keyboard , I 've flagged " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " ) Some apps have specific alternatives ; I use Terminal 's CMD-window_number , which unminimizes and focuses that window .
Are you sure that it 's not to be found ? If I look at Preferences → Settings → Keyboard , the checkbox for Use option as meta key is at the bottom . I am on 10.7.1 so it may be something overlooked in the GM of Lion and fixed in the first patch .
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
The original Apple TV ( out of box ) preferred to treat your Apple TV like an iPod . It wanted you to sync your video from iTunes and had the following limitation : H. 264 and protected H. 264 ( from iTunes Store ) : Up to 5 Mbps , Progressive Main Profile ( CAVLC ) with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps ( maximum resolution : 1280 by 720 pixels at 24 fps , 960 by 540 pixels at 30 fps ) in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats iTunes Store purchased video : 320 by 240 pixels , 640 by 480 pixels , 720 by 480 pixels ( anamorphic ) , or high-definition 720p MPEG-4 : Up to 3 Mbps , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps ( maximum resolution : 720 by 432 pixels at 30 fps ) in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats The new Apple TV has identical requirements as that of the new iPod touch and iPhone 4 : H. 264 video up to 720p , 30 frames per second , Main Profile level 3.1 with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps per channel , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats MPEG-4 video , up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats Motion JPEG ( M-JPEG ) up to 35 Mbps , 1280 by 720 pixels , 30 frames per second , audio in ulaw , PCM stereo audio in . avi file format As for how it works , while nothing hard has been released from the UI screenshots released items from the internet ( iTunes store , YouTube , Netflix , etc. ) will stream from their respective sources while your photos , music and video streams directly from iTunes or from an iPhone , iPad or iPod touch ( via AirPlay coming in iOS 4.2 )
I 'm not familiar with the particulars of your mouse and the associated drives , it probably has n't been updated for Lion yet , so I would n't expect any Mission Control options built in at the moment . The simplest way would be to see if you can have the button assigned to a particular keypress , which you can then assign to Mission Control in the Keyboard Prefs . If that does n't work , try <URL> , it 's a 3rd party mouse driver that works with almost every extra mouse you 'll find , and gives you some additional features and flexibility .
In iOS 9 Settings >> News >> News and Privacy , there 's a long text that itemizes the privacy protections ( and limitations ) related to collection and use of individual and aggregated data . Regarding " Disclosure to Third Parties " , it says , in part : We do not share any of your individual data with third parties ...
Versions are stored on the same physical / logical volume as the original . This Q&amp;A has all the technical details , but in short , look in the root user owned folder on each volume . If you create a disk image , the user that mounts the disk image normally owns the directory where changes to documents on that volume are stored . <URL> So - if that volume is FileVault encrypted ( or a secure disk image ) then the version is as secure as the original . When you copy a file by attaching it , you only send the current saved copy - not any previous versions - so then again - it 's only as secure ( or not ) as the medium into which you send that file . So - versions does n't do any additional encryption and it 's really up to each application to decide whether it enables or disables versions and whether the data it writes is also obfuscated / encrypted - but the presence of versions neither adds nor subtracts security to a system .
Unfortunately I 'm not aware of anything that can do what you 're looking for . Mission Control is fairly limited in the ways in which you can customize it , either through the user interface or for developers . Similarly , OS X is pretty constrained in how you can configure multiple monitors ( sadly , it 's actually regressed a bit in this regard since 10.6 ) . You can set an app to appear in all spaces by right clicking its Dock icon , and selecting Assign To : All Desktops under the Options sub-menu . However this applies to all windows for that app , regardless of what monitor they 're on . But if you keep all your iChat/Messages windows on your second display , it may be useful .
The file to change would be ( cf <URL> ) In Lion/Mountain Lion we had a key . Unfortunately it 's not recognized anymore . I 'm pessimistic about restoring this behaviour .
It 's not something you can do out-of-the-box , but there are ways to hack around that . This article will give details : <URL> Essentially , the trick is to create a series of scripts and use something like FastScripts ( or something like Alfred or LaunchBar ) to run the scripts .
You ca n't run OS X virtualized or not , on non-Apple-branded hardware per the software license agreement . You would need Apple hardware to virtualize it and be compliant with the EULA . <URL>
I believe the lack of accessories may be due to the power requirements of the iPad . The iPad comes with a 10 watt charger while most iPhone chargers are only 1 watt . According to this article lower wattage chargers will work , they will just be slower . <URL>
Once you 've completed the registration , all the information you 've filled up , will be sent to Apple with your iDevice / Computer 's Serial Number . Having an Apple Id associated to a Device is necessary for the AppleCare Protection Plan , but , if you purchased the AppleCare at the same time as your Device / Computer , the Protection Plan will be automatically registered , being unnecessary for you to do so . The information you fulfill and submit is useful in other ways , using Autofill in Safari , for instance , or enable the possibilty of using the Remind me of-doing-something when I get Home of the iPhone 4S . Therefore , if you want to sell your Mac or iDevice , you could just make a clean install to get rid of all that info . Not deleting it will just cause privacy / security issues .
end question
start question
Tell Safari to Download Certain File Types ?
I do n't know about permanently , but you can hold down the option key when clicking on a link , and that will always download it instead of opening it . Similarly , if you put a URL into the address bar and type option-return , that will download it as well .
Have you purchased the iPhoto ? If yes , you should see it in App Store > Purchases tab . EDIT : The problem was : Clicking on " Update " button did n't update application . Solution : Delete and redownload application .
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
It 's a usability bug . You have to open the App Store , log-in , and only then will the Resume option work . To resume , you can also click " Download " on the OS X Mavericks line in the Purchases table of the App Store . Since there 's no instant feedback as to whether anything is being downloaded unless your connection is very fast , you can use Activity Monitor to check whether network download seems to be saturated . An alternative is iStat Menus ( non-free with 14 day free trial ) . There , you can not only see that data is downloaded , but you can confirm that it is the process that does the downloading .
The <URL> project is attempting to maintain a complete and bootable implementation of the Darwin OS . From their website : One current goal of this project is to provide a useful bootable ISO of Darwin 10.x and Darwin 9.x . Darwin itself is a modified FreeBSD OS with Mach microkernel . Note though that having Darwin is not a necessary part of developing in Obj-C . Both <URL> and <URL> support Obj-C development in newer versions . You are , of course , limited in what you can do relative to using Obj-C on an OS X machine because there are far fewer standard libraries available outside of the OS X world for Obj-C .
Open your desired user Home folder in Finder ( ShiftCommand + H ) and select View > Show View Options . There should be a checkbox for toggling the Library folder .
Yes you can . Find a surface that you trust to to be level Open the compass/spirit level app and place phone on it Tap the screen while phone is placed on the surface - this will recalibrate the accelerometer reading on your iphone6 implicitly taking into account the camera bump as well . Go measure the things you want to measure :) There is a catch to this , as it does assume that the surface is wide enough to place an iPhone 6 down with the camera bump touching the surface .
In researching your question , I discovered that you can <URL> , specified as manufactured by Apple . Hope this helps . But to answer your question , I would acquire a known good key hinge to examine and compare to the key hinge in question . This should allow you to determine if your key hinge is broken .
The information you are looking for is easily available in Chrome ( v35 ) . Just click on the lock icon in the browser location bar and the cipher suite details are there . But you asked about Safari . Clicking on the lock icon in Safari 7.0.4 only gives a fraction of what you get in Chrome . I thought there might be more in Safari Developer Tools but came up empty . What worked for me was to use a network packet inspector ( I used <URL> installed through <URL> ) . WireShark will allow you to examine all the network traffic including the " Client Hello " message where Safari lists the cipher suites it supports ( the list is 37 items long and matches the list you linked to from Qualsys ) . A little further down you can see the " Server Hello " message . In this response the server will respond with the name of the best cipher suite that they both share . The screenshot below is from WireShark . I have set up a filter to only show packets to and from IP addresses corresponding to ' www.google.com ' . Then I started recording and then loaded the google home page under https in Safari . You can see that the negotiated cipher suite between google and Safari is . Further down in the transcript ( not shown ) I found packets relating to to " Change Cipher Spec " , but this does n't appear ( from what I can tell ) to change the selected suite .
Exporting Your Chrome Bookmarks Chrome stores bookmarks in a non-HTML format so you need to export them first before you can import them in to Safari . Select from the menu bar in Chrome In the Bookmark Manager UI select Select a location to save the file ( I suggest ) in the File window dialog and click the button Import the Exported Bookmarks in to Safari In Safari select from the menu bar Navigate to the folder where you saved the exported HTML bookmarks file , select the file and press the button Your bookmarks will be imported in to a bookmark folder named . For example , on the day of writing this answer , my imported bookmarks were placed in a bookmark folder named . You can organize your bookmarks in Safari by selecting to open the bookmark editing interface in a tab . Move and re-arrange your imported bookmarks to suit your needs .
Sure . Just go to System Preferences/Network , select Wifi and click Advanced . A list with all the Wifi networks you 've been connected to will appear . Just rearrange the connection order ( the ones you 'd like to connect first on top ) by drag-dropping . Also , delete any unwanted network SSID ( network names ) if you no longer want to auto-join that .
I found a way to do this in a bash script : Save as , , to hit K. From there it 's simple to use Automator to loop over the script several times or make an iCal alarm to initiate the script at a specific time .
Why yes , it can , as a matter of fact . Follow <URL> to hear some high quality jokes on your Mac . Open up Speech Recognition in your system settings . Enable " Speakable Items " Enable " Speak Command Acknowledgement " Set up the rest however you like ( in regards to key press or keyword for input ) . When you 're ready , say " Tell me a joke . " ( Or , if you have a keyword " tell me a joke " . ) Enjoy ! ( Tested in Lion , although this has been around for quite some time . )
I use the <URL> for this , which has a host of other useful features , too .
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
Using <URL> : $ convert image.png - crop ' 1x1 +100 +200 ' txt : - Outputs , e.g. # ImageMagick pixel enumeration : 1,1,255 , rgb 0,0 : ( 236,236,236 ) #ECECEC rgb ( 236,236,236 ) Or , if the file is PNG-24 file , it outputs e.g. # ImageMagick pixel enumeration : 1,1,255 , rgba 0,0 : ( 0 , 0 , 0,243 ) # 000000F3 rgba ( 0,0,0,0.952941 ) At <URL> I 've first defined the area to be cropped , which in this case is 1x1 pixels . Then I 've defined the location of the crop relative to the North West corner , i.e. upper left . † Lastly I 've converted the output to textual with . ImageMagick then outputs all the colors of the image to STDOUT ( in this case there is only one color , as the image size is 1 pixel ) , meaning you could process it with normal shell techniques . So e.g. by piping the output to you would get only the pixel info line . If you need the pixel 's color in any other colorspace , you should look at the aptly named <URL> . † ) Actually the location is relative to the specified <URL> , but it defaults to " NorthWest " .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
As Rabarberski says , can be used to find any process that has the file open . Note that you need to run the program as root , i.e. , using , and that you can give the pathname to the file you 're interested in as an argument , so there is no need for the invocation in the hint that Rabarberski points to . Also , if a process holds a lock on the file , you 're supposed to be able to see that from the FD column in the output . See the manual page for the details . ( When I run on my machine , I see no locked files , so I wo n't guarantee that this works right on the Mac . is after all a generic unix program , and conceivably some features do n't work on OSX . ) You can not unlock a file without killing the process that holds the lock . But you can remove it with from the command line .
The AppleScript for this is pretty simple : You can make this easily accessible by creating a Service . Open Automator and create a new document . Select the Service document type . Set the Service receives : menu to . Drag in a module and paste that code into its text box . Save the service and give it a name . You 'll now be able to activate it by going to the current app 's menu and choosing Services - > Stop iTunes ( or whatever you named the service ) . You can assign a keyboard shortcut by going to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Services , finding the service ( it should be under General at the bottom ) and adding a shortcut .
From : <URL> offers these examples : The TCP wrapper program in Mac OS X is :
end question
start question
How do you force quit an application in iOS 7 ?
In iOS 7 : Double tap the home button Scroll to the app you want to force quit Flick up on the app 's window .
There 's been much debate and discussion around this topic . I believe it was beneficial for iOS back in the v3 and v4 days but now it 's not . Craig Federighi even came out recently saying it 's not necessary and it does n't increase the battery life . Apple has built-in their memory management the proper time to suspend and/or kill an app when necesssary . The only time you should force-close an app is if it has become unresponsive .
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
I found this tool called BetterTouchTool <URL> BetterTouchTool is a great , feature packed app that allows you to configure many gestures for your Magic Mouse , Macbook Trackpad and Magic Trackpad and also Mouse Gestures for normal mice . It also allows you to configure actions for keyboard shortcuts , normal mice buttons and the Apple Remote . In addition to this it has an iOS companion App ( BTT Remote ) which can also be configured to control your Mac the way you want . It allows me to set a HUGE variety of actions for TONS of mouse gestures . I am able to create actions for FORCE click on specific areas of the trackpad , and even multifinger force click . It is exactly what I 've been looking for . It is extremely useful .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
As far as I know , the iPhone 4 is the only device capable of running iOS 7 that ca n't be updated to iOS 8 . Ref : Wikipedia - <URL> - &amp; others
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
You can leave in-app purchases on if you wish . Once you have enabled then at the bottom of the second section , you will see and underneath they even have a little prompt . Change this from the default of to and your problem is fixed .
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
Applications that are distributed on disk images ( files ) are designed to be installed using drag and drop . You can safely drag and drop the application from the virtual drive into your Applications folder and use it from your Applications folder . After copying it to your Applications folder it 's safe to eject the virtual drive and delete the disk image file . Nearly all applications will work just fine running off that virtual hard drive as they store their content in your user folder ( eg . browsers , mail applications , etc. ) . It will however stop you from running application updates as the disk image is read only .
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
A force restart is at the hardware level , not the software level . This means that even if iOS is completely frozen or in a different mode altogether ( such as <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> ) , you can still perform a force restart . It does nothing more than cut the power and turn the device back on again . This means that it does n't clear any caches or reset anything . A regular restart actually does more than a force restart .
With the minimized application selected , start holding the ⌥ alt key before you release the ⌘ cmd key .
There is a convenient way of making your Mac speak any selected text . Open System Preferences . Select Speech . Select the Text to Speech tab if it is not already selected . Check the box for Speak selected text when the key is pressed and provide a key combination of your choice . You can now use the key combination to speak selected text system-wide .
⌘ Command + ` will cycle between windows of the current application when using i.a. US keyboard .
Mail is like many apps that use the network - it ca n't just quit if there is network traffic active , it needs to see those requests safely terminated . If for example Mail is checking your iCloud account it needs to wait a certain time until all processes are complete before exiting . It may also be sending an email that you have just hit " Send " on , and then you have immediately tried to quit - ca n't work that way . Even if the network communication is asynchronous these things need to be tidied up before exiting .
No - the OS picks channels algorithmically so you get what iOS chooses each time you enable personal hot spot . I 've seen personal hotspot pick channels 1 , 6 and 11 on iOS 7 when in moderately busy wireless environments like this one with 26 advertising base stations ( and a few hidden ones as well ) .
This depends on several factors and is not generally tied to a fixed time schedule - active usage of the device , push notifications to apps , location based updates and iOS 7 's learning ability to optimize based on your usage patterns for apps . From <URL> ( bold italic emphasis mine ) : Certain tasks or services can continue to run in the background . To lessen the affect on battery life , normal app background refreshing is scheduled for efficient times , such as when your device is connected to Wi-Fi , plugged into a power source , or being actively used . You can adjust your apps ' background activity in Settings > General > Background App Refresh . When Background App Refresh is on , apps that take advantage of this feature can refresh themselves in the background . For example , an app can check if new content is available and download the updates , or retrieve the updated content in the background when it receives a push notification , so the new content is ready for viewing when you launch the app . Apps can also schedule background refreshing based on your location . iOS learns patterns based on your use of the device and tries to predict when an app should be updated in the background . It also learns when the device is typically inactive , such as during the night , to reduce update frequency when the device not used . To improve battery life , you could selectively turn off background refresh for certain apps from Settings > General > Background App Refresh .
Grab it in the list &amp; drag it out to the desktop - like you would with an app in the dock , etc. . You should see the little puff of smoke &amp; it 's gone .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to place 4 pictures on a A4 sheet using the mac ?
You can do this using Preview . Here 's how I do it ( on Lion , but I 'm pretty sure it was much the same on Snow Leopard ) . Select the 4 images in Finder Open with Preview Select the 4 images in the Preview sidebar From the menubar , select File > Print ... Change the dropdown half-way down the page to " Layout " Change " Pages per sheet " to 4 ( you should now see the 4 images together on the single sheet on the left ) Select " Save as PDF ... " from the PDF dropdown in the bottom left You can also customise the paper type , layout direction and approximate scale of each picture to whatever suits best .
Just download the free ( ! ) <URL> and then you can simply share and sync all your desktop bookmarks to your iPhone/iPad .
I ended up being patient and did not make any purchases until recently when Age of Mythology : Extended Edition was released on <URL> . It includes the Titans expansion and is likely to have more content added like what was done for Age of Empires II on Steam . I do have to boot into Windows to play but it runs really well ( graphics look awesome ) through Steam .
I 've used <URL> ( link goes to their site , iTunes link below ) for some time , thought admittedly very sparsely and only for the simplest of use cases , so , much of this is taken from their site . Use the OS ' Address Book : Yep , it maintains it 's own " quick list " ( favorites ) however . and global Recent Calls list : Nope , maintains it 's own ( pretty sure this one is impossible anyways , " private APIs " and all that ) . Load as fast as Phone.app : I call this subjective , because Phone.app is always running , which gives it an inherit speedup compared to anything else . Acro 's SoftPhone does support the VoIP backgrounding , and even push , so you can " Swipe To Answer " , but it still takes at least a couple seconds to do . ( At least that 's how it feels , comparatively speaking . ) International Number Support : I think this is not so much a client feature as much as it is a feature of your server you SIP register to . This one is unknown to me as I 've never attempted to call an international ( outside the US ) number . Allow Recording : Yes . Upon tapping the record button , a voice announcement is played , and then conversation is recorded and able to be replayed from the app . Skype : Nope Google Voice : Yep , but to what extent , I am unsure . Per their website : GoogleVoice users : Though we have integrated GoogleVoice , Acrobits Softphone 's main use is as a SIP client . You can setup Acrobits Softphone to initiate GoogleVoice calls through other types of numbers , but to get the full functionality of Acrobits Softphone , you need to have GoogleVoice linked to a SIP Account . Rest : If it 's SIP , it should work . Bonus : It supports ZRTP . Zimmerman 's encrypted RTP protocol for SIP calls . Free for incoming calls , in-app purchase for initiating calls using it . iTunes Link : <URL> .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
To give it a full fresh and clean and welcome experience I would suggest you remove all stuff accumulated over time including all non apple aps . To do that you can erase all the information from hard drive and simply reinstall the OS X. Apple 's knowledge base article has the steps : <URL> . On most computers , the erase and install takes 30 minutes plus how ever long it takes to download the installer package from Apple 's servers . That part is about a 4 GB download if you have n't saved it and follow the above instructions .
Edit : this also should work for El Capitan with a 6.33 GB + partition Currently the best way seems to be through , which is also <URL> . First create a partition on the USB key with <URL> : then in the terminal use the command . It can be found in the Maverick install apk . By default the path is . Replace with your own partition name : The output should be along these lines : The setup should take few to few dozens minutes depending on your USB drive . To create a USB installer for multiple OS X versions you can to go through the following procedure : Start disk utility Create multiple partitions formatted as . Give them names like : OS X Lion : OS X Mountain Lion : OS X Mavericks : Generate multiple install partitions using the tool of each OX 10.9 + version and add the other install partitions using disktool : restore the InstallESD.dmg from to restore the InstallESD.dmg from to From experience here is the data usage for each OS X version : OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard : 7.19 GB OSX 10.7 Lion : 4.78 GB ( requires 6.13 GB ) OSX 10.8 Mountain Lion : 4.48 GB OSX 10.9 Mavericks : 5.4 GB OSX 10.10 Yosemite : 5.25 GB OSX 10.11 El Capitan : 6.33 GB macOS Sierra : 4.84 GB
great question ... I 've been looking for a tool that will allow me to emulate TouchCursor for Windows on the mac for a long time . Tried <URL> , DoubleCommand , and some others that I ca n't remember right now :) KeyRemap4Macbook seemed to be closest to what I needed , but I could never get around to configuring it how I wanted it . Your mileage may vary . Check out <URL> that gives some of the aforementioned programs and start playing :)
If you have a MacBook Air you can " right-click " by placing two fingers on your trackpad and clicking with one of them . Of course this work when you are using OS X . You can configure this option ( if it is n't already configured ) by going to > > If you are using Windows with Boot Camp instead , you should install the additional driver provided by Apple . They should allow you to right-click in the same way you do it on OS X.
Fastest to slowest : USB WiFi hotspot Bluetooth Keep in mind the power draw of the options . From most battery efficient to least : USB ( It helps that it 's also charging at the same time . ) Bluetooth WiFi
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
iPhoto Photos Location iPhoto stores photos and meta-data in the user 's home folder : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library Within this folder , the original photos are stored at : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library/Masters Bulk Copy with rsync If the user name was , the <URL> all the original photos to the local desktop would be :
The stuff in the Other category is typically documents that have been deleted on the iPad , and also documents that are in use by various apps ( for example , PDF documents that are in use by GoodReader , or docs from the iWork programs ) . Sometimes these documents are available via the Apps tab in iTunes , other times not ; it depends on the program . For example , Documents to Go and GoodReader can manage their own documents outside of iTunes using Dropbox . Deleted documents should be cleared out when you sync with iTunes . Sometimes , due to a known iTunes bug , the Other category wo n't shrink as expected . There 's more at these Apple Discussions threads : <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> and <URL> the iPhone 4 is somewhat slower than the iPad , but still significantly faster than the iPhone 3GS . I guess that its A4 CPU is clocked at about 750 - 850 MHz .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
Your question is like that old Sesame Street song , " Which one of these things does n't belong ? " . Bootcamp is a way to run Windows via dual booting , which means that when you are running Windows you are not running OS X . This is good for when you need maximum performance ( e.g. Windows gaming ) but very inconvenient when what you need is to be able to run Windows and OS X applications at the same time . The other solutions you mentioned are all virtualization solutions that run Windows on top of OS X , letting you run a mix of applications . Of these , I agree with Wheat that Parallels and Fusion are both very good , and it 's really hard to say one is better than another . Try them out ( there are trial versions ) and see which you prefer . Or just go with pricing ; I run Parallels because I got a good price on it as part of a software bundle . Virtualbox , on the other hand , is free and good at the basics , but it is MUCH less integrated into OS X. For example , it does not map your OS X documents folder into the Windows document folder to enable seamless sharing of data between the two environments . My take is that Virtualbox is good if you simply want to play around with Windows on a Mac , but if you have a real-world need for doing so , you 're much better off spending the money for Fusion or Parallels .
You can do this using Preview . Here 's how I do it ( on Lion , but I 'm pretty sure it was much the same on Snow Leopard ) . Select the 4 images in Finder Open with Preview Select the 4 images in the Preview sidebar From the menubar , select File > Print ... Change the dropdown half-way down the page to " Layout " Change " Pages per sheet " to 4 ( you should now see the 4 images together on the single sheet on the left ) Select " Save as PDF ... " from the PDF dropdown in the bottom left You can also customise the paper type , layout direction and approximate scale of each picture to whatever suits best .
I always prefer this chain : Speak with an Apple Employee - ask them who exactly is best to hear the specific feedback . Who better to know what the best channel for your idea / feedback than the people trained to interact with the public . Just be aware that not all employees will be in a position to take your feedback , but they might be taking mental notes to send it up even if they do n't let on or promise you they will follow up on your feedback . If it 's really a bug in the hardware/software , you can file a bug at <URL> There 's always <URL>
My personal recommendation is <URL> for a small price and the ability to create archives . A free alternative is <URL> but this is limited to archive extraction only .
There is no " good " answer for this , but here 's the best I can figure out . Once you are on the call and muted : make sure you are on the screen that displays the mute/addcall/facetime / contacts buttons ( I 'll call this the " mute screen " from hereonout ) click the top button that turns off and locks the phone when you need to unmute , you can click the on/off or home button and swipe right . at this point you will see the " mute screen " and you can unmute . this only works once as far as I can tell . Once you have done this once , the next time the phone locks and you need to unmute , swiping right will not display the mute screen , but will just display your passcode pad as usual . NOTE : in order for this to work at all , the screen MUST BE the mute screen when you click the top on/off button . If you are on any other screen when the phone locks , this will not work even one time , as far as I can tell . I hope this is helpful . As usual with Apple , basic functionality is omitted for no discernible reason . " YOU ARE N'T I-TELEPHONING RIGHT . "
end question
start question
Does the Mountain Lion installer work on any Mac capable of running Mountain Lion or is it hardware specific ?
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
Yes the installer is updated with 10.8.x releases as they come out . You will need to update the installer app through the App Store as you would for any other app . ( Source : <URL> ) . Like any other application purchased from the Mac App Store , these OS installers are updated in-place as part of the normal Mac App Store update process when new versions are released . It 's as if your Mac OS X 10.6.0 installation disc gradually morphed into a 10.6.1 installer , then a 10.6.2 installer , and so on . Example given is 10.6 , but the reviewer is talking about 10.8 .
In Preferences , select Messages and check " Save history when conversations are closed . " Now when you quit Messages , it will create a collection of chat transcripts . You can easily access these in your Library folder . From Finder , select Go > Go to Folder and type : . If you are on Mavericks or Yosemite , the location is . This will take you directly to the appropriate folder .
It 's not at all clear that Apple will endorse the transference of an App Store account and it 's clear they do n't endorse transferring parts of the purchase history . Legally , you might be able to get away with this in certain parts of the world , but it 's clearly not something Apple is keen to point out how to accomplish this or has built in a " gift my license " functionality to their stores at present . Why not include a gift card for the App Store in question or some other cash equivalent with the sale ?
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
If you hold down alt/option when you click the format dropdown in the export menu , you can still select GIF in Mountain Lion . Once you have done this , you can continue with the normal animated gif creation process : Save your image as a GIF Show the sidebar Drag additional frames on top of the thumbnail
As far as the license says , no . You have the right to : So , as far as the license goes , you must already be running Mountain Lion in order to virtualize it .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
No , however if you were already running ML , and you had a Flash-storage based Mac that supported PowerNap , then it would likely be able to do so as part of it 's ability to automatically download updates etc ( which are provided through the Mac App Store ) when in sleep . Bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy though ;)
Upgrade to the latest version of VMWare Fusion , in your situation you will need manually download it as indicated below for the situation you describe in your question : I upgraded to Mountain Lion and now VMware Fusion 4 wo n't start . What happened ? Mountain Lion appears to detect some older versions of VMware Fusion 4 and prevent them from launching . To resolve this issue , login to <URL> ( free product registration required ) and download VMware Fusion 4.1.3 . It can be found under " Products &amp; Downloads > All Downloads > VMware Fusion " According to <URL>
Theres been <URL> online of messages sync being a bit buggy if you do n't set it up exactly right . Heres a few solutions that should get everything syncing nicely for you : Firstly , you need to have all devices set up to the same Apple ID iOS Devices ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad ) : Navigate to Settings > Messages . Make sure iMessage is turned on . Tap on Receive At . Check your Apple ID . Make note of this Apple ID . Tap on Caller ID . Use your email address . If you use your phone number ( assuming you &#8217; re on an iPhone ) , then the non phone devices ( including the Mac ) may not ( and probably won &#8217; t ) see the messages . Mac version : Navigate to the Messages app . Go to Preferences > Accounts . Add the same Apple ID as you used on the iOS devices . In a nutshell : everything needs to be consistent . Use the same Apple ID everywhere and an email address as a caller id for best results . If things are still not syncing , try the following . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
I 've had the same " need . " I guess we all do sooner or later . Here 's what I did . Card menu > Add Field > Dates . Then select the Date field drop down in the contact and select custom . You can also change the general new contact template in the same Cart menu . I hope this helps .
Apple <URL> the following Macs will run Mountain Lion : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) So the complement of this list are not supported to run Mountain Lion ( as far as I can tell ; edit this list to add or subtract models as appropriate ; you may be able to get it running on an unsupported machine ) : Macintosh 128K Macintosh 512K Macintosh 128K ( revised ) Macintosh XL Macintosh Plus Macintosh 512Ke Macintosh Plus ( Platinum ) Macintosh SE Macintosh II Macintosh IIx Macintosh SE/30 Macintosh IIcx Macintosh SE FDHD Macintosh IIci Macintosh Portable Macintosh IIfx Macintosh LC Macintosh Classic Macintosh IIsi Macintosh Portable ( backlit screen ) Macintosh Classic II Quadra 700 Quadra 900 PowerBook 100 PowerBook 140 PowerBook 170 Macintosh LC II Quadra 950 PowerBook 145 Macintosh IIvi Macintosh IIvx PowerBook 160 PowerBook 180 PowerBook Duo 210 PowerBook Duo 230 Macintosh LC III / III + Macintosh Color Classic Centris 610 Centris 650 Quadra 800 PowerBook 165c Workgroup Server 80 Workgroup Server 95 PowerBook 145b PowerBook 180c Macintosh LC 520 Workgroup Server 60 Centris / Quadra 660AV Quadra 840AV PowerBook 165 Macintosh Color Classic II Macintosh TV Quadra 605 Quadra 610 Quadra 650 PowerBook Duo 250 PowerBook Duo 270c Macintosh LC 550 Macintosh LC 575 Power Macintosh 6100 Power Macintosh 7100 Power Macintosh 8100 Workgroup Server 6150 Workgroup Server 8150 Workgroup Server 9150 PowerBook 520/c PowerBook 540/c PowerBook 550 PowerBook Duo 280 PowerBook Duo 280c Quadra 630 PowerBook 150 Power Macintosh 6200 / 6300 Macintosh LC 580 Performa 5200 Power Macintosh 9500 Power Macintosh 7200 Power Macintosh 7500 Power Macintosh 8500 PowerBook 190 PowerBook 5300 PowerBook Duo 2300c Workgroup Server 7250 Workgroup Server 8550 Performa 5260 / 5300 Performa 5400 Power Macintosh 7600 Performa 6360 Performa 6400 Power Macintosh 4400 PowerBook 1400 Power Macintosh 5500 Power Macintosh 6500 Power Macintosh 7300 Power Macintosh 8600 Power Macintosh 9600 PowerBook 3400 Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh Workgroup Server 7350 Workgroup Server 9650 PowerBook 2400c Power Macintosh G3 desktop Power Macintosh G3 minitower PowerBook G3 Power Macintosh G3 AIO Macintosh Server G3 PowerBook G3 series iMac G3 Power Macintosh G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) Macintosh Server G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) PowerBook G3 ( " Lombard " ) iBook Macintosh Server G4 iMac ( slot loading ) Power Mac G4 Graphite PowerBook ( " Pismo " ) Power Mac G4 Cube iBook ( FireWire ) PowerBook G4 Titanium iBook ( white ) Power Mac G4 Quicksilver Server G4 Quicksilver iMac G4 15 " iBook ( 14 " ) eMac Xserve iMac G4 17 " Power Mac G4 MDD Macintosh Server G4 MDD PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 12 " ) PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 17 " ) Xserve slot loading Xserve Cluster Node Power Mac G5 PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 15 " ) iBook G4 ( 12 " / 14 " ) iMac G4 20 " Xserve G5 Xserve Cluster Node G5 Xserve Power Mac G5 FX iMac G5 17 " iMac G5 20 " iMac Mac mini Power Mac G5 dual core iMac Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 15 " ) Mac mini Core Solo Mac mini Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 17 " ) MacBook ( Late 2008 plastic ) Xserve ( Intel ) ( Late 2006 ) MacBook ( Late 2006 ) Mac mini Core 2 Duo MacBook ( Late 2007 ) Xserve Harpertown MacBook Penryn 1st generation MacBook Air ( early 2008 )
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
At the moment , the only free way for NTFS write access without using abandoned software is using <URL> along with <URL> . There 's a <URL> for that in the FUSE for OS X wiki . If you need NTFS writing a lot you might be better off using <URL> or <URL> , both commercial but more faster and more bulletproof solutions . As pointed out in the comments , there 's no write restriction for FAT32 volumes in OS X.
First of all iOS 6 and Mountain Lion have the ability to combine phone number and Apple ID to use iMessage , but it seems like you have n't activated it . Have it separated comes from older versions and also gives you kind of a fallback mode when there is no internet connection available . If you send an iMessage via Apple ID and your partner " on the other side of the conversation " had no connection , the message would not be send . Using the phone number you still have/had the ability to resend it as SMS . Now , if you want to combine your Apple ID and your phone number , open the prefs on your iOS device , go to the messages section , choose " send &amp; receive " and check both your Apple ID and the phone number . Also set the application to start all conversations from your phone number . Now , do the same on your Mac . Open the prefs in iMessage on the Mac , go to accounts , choose your iMessage account and check both , your phone number and your Apple ID . Set the application to start new conversations from the phone number . Now , your streams should be combined from now on ( old conversation will stay separated ) . Of course in case of connection problems sending a SMS from the Mac is not possible within iMessages . To your question why you have different possibilities to send the message : Well , because he/she has different contacting possibilities ( and technologies - you can sent SMS to the number instead of an iMessage ) . But they also have the ability to combine their number and ID what should also give them one single stream .
Checkout XTrafinder - google for it and download it from the source of your choice ... It can be found <URL> . From the website : XtraFinder add Tabs and features to Mac Finder . • Tabs . • Dual Panel &amp; Dual Window . • Arrange folders on top . • Cut &amp; Paste . • Global hotkeys . • " Copy Path " , " Show Hidden Items " , " Hide Desktop " , " Refresh " , " New File " , " Copy to " , " Move to " , " New Terminal Here " , " Make Symbolic Link " , " Contents " , " Select ... " , ... . • Light text on dark background . • Colorful icons in Sidebar . The nice thing really is that it extends finders usability .
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
end question
start question
What does ( MM ) mean in the iPad model lineup ?
I do not have a direct link or citation on/about Apple to prove my conclusion . But the most logical answer I could gather by reading several sites is that MM would stand for " Multi-mode " , signifying that the iPad supports not just CDMA and GSM , but also multiple LTE implementations . The term " multimode " or " multi-mode " is used to designate chips/devices that support multiple , disparate communication technologies ( a device with WiFi and Bluetooth can be called multimode too , but we 're talking only about cellular here . Plus , all of Apple 's iDevices have had WiFi and Bluetooth in all models ) . Only the GSM + CDMA + LTE models that support multiple carriers have the " MM " tag . Example : The 4th generation iPad and the iPad mini have models that support CDMA/GSM/LTE on Verizon and Sprint . So they 're marked as " Cellular ( MM ) " to give them a more substantial ( and carrier neutral ) name . The GSM + CDMA + LTE models in older generations that support only Verizon have a " VZ " tag instead of the " MM " tag . Example : The 3rd generation iPad , the first iPad to come with support for both CDMA and GSM on a single device , has a CDMA/GSM/LTE Verizon model , but it does not support Sprint . So it 's marked as " Cellular ( VZ ) " to signify that it 's tied to Verizon ( and can not work with another CDMA carrier like Sprint ) . In Apple 's current terminology : " Cellular " implies GSM+LTE " Cellular ( MM ) " implies GSM+CDMA+LTE ( across CDMA carriers ) Note that there is no " CDMA only " version of the iPad after the iPad 2 , unlike " GSM only " versions that have been and continue to be available . You can come to similar conclusions by comparing the cellular support across iPad models/generations and how they relate to the chipsets used , the carriers supported , and their technology implementations . Here are some links related to the iPad specs across generations and multi-mode ( as it applies to cellular technology ) that would help understand my conclusion better . Technical specifications for iPads of different generations ( pay attention to the technologies/carriers supported ) : 1 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> Links related to multi-mode ( read them completely or search for " mode " to go to multimode related snippets on these pages ) : 1 . <URL> , <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> 4 . <URL> 5 . <URL> 6 . <URL>
Macworld run <URL> with a collection of accessories : In our testing , even many form-fitting iPad 2 accessories work with the third-generation iPad . For example , most dock-cradle accessories -- such as speaker docks , chargers , and even Apple 's iPad Keyboard Dock -- released prior to the new iPad work fine . ( This is likely because many of these accessories were designed to fit both the iPad 2 and the original iPad , and the original iPad is even thicker than the new model . ) Similarly , most iPad stands and mounts -- especially those that hold the iPad loosely in a groove , slot , or cradle , or on easel-style supports -- work perfectly with the iPad . Even Twelve South 's HoverBar , which uses a rigid-plastic , corner-hugging cradle , fits the new iPad , albeit with a tighter fit than when mounting an iPad 2 . Even better , Apple 's site now states that the <URL> dock lists compatibility with the iPad 1st generation and the <URL> dock with the iPad 2 2nd generation and iPad 3rd generation .
I just checked the box for my iPad 2 . There is essentially nothing other than : a tiny card with minimal instructions . This tells you that there is further documentation at <URL> , along with information about needing to download iTunes , etc. . The obligatory " Important Product Information Guide " containing a whole lot of legal stuff . Some Apple stickers . So I think your best bet for information would be the <URL> linked in the other answer . A couple of photos of the card are shown below : Please note that this is from the iPad 2 so this may have changed since I bought mine . Although Apple has been moving towards less and less documentation over the years .
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
As far as I am aware you can replace the battery and HDD/SSD on most MacBook Pro models . Have a look at the manuals on <URL> . <URL> : You can replace the battery like <URL> And the SSD like <URL> . <URL> : I think the last HDD MacBook Pro . No retina display , but you can replace the optical drive and use a 2nd HDD/SSD instead .
Download Apple file conduit " 2 " from cydia , Once you do you will be able to see everything that you want such as / var in Ifunbox in the raw system files section
The iTerm color change of Tab labels indicates activity . It can be turned of in : Preferences > Appearance > Color tab labels on activity The help file explains this " Color tab labels on activity " appearance preference as follows : If selected , tab labels become purple when a non-selected tab has new output , and red when a non-selected tab has output you have n't seen but that is not very recent .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
You can only dial emergency numbers , which vary by country/region ( 911 in the US ; certain countries such as France have multiple emergency numbers ) . Dialing regular numbers produces the following error : Starting with iOS 8 , you may also dial emergency contacts by opening your Medical ID . Interestingly , as of iOS 9.3.4 , if you have one of those numbers memorized , you can not punch it in directly . You must go through the Medical ID to ring it up .
My 64GB iPhone has several hundred apps on it , mostly games , about 9GB of photos/personal videos , 3GB of music , and ~ 5GB of free space right now . I do have to prune from time to time but it 's not too bad . My 32GB iPad on the other hand ... I really wish I had bought the 64GB ( the largest at the time ) . I am constantly having to juggle what games/apps are on there , and that 's really what 's taking the majority of the space . iPad-specific apps can get huge ... even universal apps can . I 've seen several 1GB + games , and have a bunch that are in the 250MB to 500MB range . I have only a fraction of my photo library on there , and no music or videos to speak of . I am excited by the idea of a 128GB iPhone possibly being introduced Tuesday , and when I have saved for a new iPad I will get at least the 64GB model .
I 've heard it was used because that was the approximate time at which the iPad was revealed originally , and given the Apple attention to detail , the clock had to match up . It was used in everything else because a lot of the same materials were used in the presentations as in the ads .
Mail talks to the mail server to show you messages . Only IMAP accounts can be synchronized as that is a formal way for the server and the mail client on your mac to double check all messages to make sure everything is in sync between the two . Get mail focuses on the Inbox and relies on the Mail app having a " correct " view matching the data on the mail server . Synchronize allows for noise/errors/lost messages , incorrect statuses and other real life bumps and errors . It basically double counts and double checks each and every message to make sure things are 100 % correct . Synchronize also checks all folders recursively to get everything accounted for - not just the subset of folders that are marked as having new mail . Even more " deep cleaning " would be if you told mail to rebuild the account or the mailbox . That means that the local storage that mail uses on your mac has problems getting mail or synchronizing . It 's the last step before deleting the account and starting over to download things cleanly from the server . In a nutshell - synchronize should normally do nothing - but it will fill in any gaps as needed . ( of course it will get new mail as part of a total synchronization - but it 's going to be a lot slower and use more resources on the mac than just asking for new mail )
It enables what basically is just normalization . It scans the library for track volume information , and updates the normalization metadata if necessary . It also honors it , of course .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
Your guess was correct . stands for <URL> Each file is compressed with a binary for the ARM architecture that can only be installed on iOS devices . If you change the extension to you will be able to unzip it and view the contents .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
According to Apple 's <URL> for the 2015 13 " MBP , it is possible : " Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on up to two external displays ... "
All computers running Mac OS X contain a feature called Bonjour . It works by sending multicast DNS packets out onto your current network to advertise your computer 's available services . This is how iTunes Sharing works ; your computer tells other computers that it has a shared iTunes library available , and gives the computers instructions on where to connect to it . Over the past few weeks , I have been experimenting with an extension of the service called Wide Area Bonjour . Instead of sending out multicast DNS packets to your local network , it sends out similar packets to an actual DNS server , which with the correct authentication , updates actual zones in the DNS server . This essentially allows you to use the magic of Bonjour across many networks , or even the Internet . All that 's required is that each computer that is interested in your Bonjour domain has the domain listed in its " Search Domains " ( or " DNS Suffix " ) . The service I have been testing out is Global Hostname , which will host a Wide Area Bonjour-enabled zone for you , either on your own domain , or a subdomain of globalhostname.org . Apple 's AirPort product range feature Wide Area Bonjour to enable you to control your AirPort from wherever you are . Added : Its purpose is to provide features similar to those offered by " Back to My Mac " without using the . Mac/MobileMe service . It requires that you have your own DNS server . If your service provider supports secure dynamic DNS update ( RFC 3007 ) , you can provide your Mac with a global DNS hostname so that other computers outside your local network can refer to it by name . Even if your computer 's IP address changes at regular intervals , your computer will automatically update its global DNS hostname to point to its current IP address . Your service provider or domain administrator will provide you with the necessary user name and password so your Mac can update its hostname every time its address changes . If your service provider supports Wide-Area Bonjour registrations , you can also select the " Advertise services in this domain using Bonjour " checkbox to advertise this computer 's active Sharing services in this domain . If the domain 's administrator enabled Bonjour browsing for this domain , other computers will see the services listed automatically in the respective application , based on the Search Domains entered in their Network preferences or based on information returned by DHCP . :)
end question
start question
Is storing an iMac sideways safe ?
Yes , it wo n't hurt the iMac . In fact they can even be used sideways , as long as you do n't block any vents . Hard drive bearings are said to last longest when they are either upright or flat , but apart from the convection-cooled Mac Cube I do n't know of any Mac that depends on orientation for cooling or anything else . If you are putting them away for any length of time , get some <URL> packets or a " <URL> " or local equivalent to ensure humidity does not speed corrosion or otherwise damage your machines . Wrap them tightly in plastic to prevent critters crawling in , there is nothing worse than finding something living in your old computer . Dead bodies or other debris may be corrosive or conductive . If your iMac is the CRT kind consider cutting a panel out of plywood to protect the glass screen . CRTs are hard to smash but easy to scratch or chip . If you are putting away anything really precious ( iMac signed by the Steves ? ) best practice is sealing the computer in an environment of dry nitrogen gas - it 's a serious measure but not actually that hard to do since airtight bags are easy to find and nitrogen is becoming common in <URL> . Removing oxygen prevents oxidisation ( rust ) and will also make it impossible for creatures to colonise your Mac since they can not live without oxygen . In the last decade the <URL> has seen the use of lead-free solder increase . One big problem with this is the growth of " <URL> " from the solder and other circuit elements that can bridge what should be gaps between circuit paths . While the exact cause of whiskers and the right way to prevent their growth post-manufacturing is still unknown there are minority suggestions that vacuum or nitrogen environments help - but from my reading , a temperature-controlled or even cycling environment is more likely to be effective . When the exact facts are known the right way to store computers long-term will probably change . But it 's sad to think that there is a risk to our machines even if they are well cared-for . <URL> so this applies to them . Older machines may well be manufactured using lead solder and so tin whiskers would not be an issue . I could not find a definitive answer .
Are you sure you need to have a software solution within Windows ? Many HDTVs let you adjust current display settings to disable the overscan . See <URL> . Quote : If you do n't see every pixel you should see , you 're not viewing a true 1920 by 1080 progressive-scan picture . The name of the viewing mode differs from brand to brand , but it 's commonly called Dot-by-Dot , Point-to-Point , Just , or simply Overscan Off . To add to that , on my own HDTV , choosing " Studio " under the Aspect setting has the effect of eliminating the overscan . I 've also seen it called simply " PC " on another TV , and " Just Scan " on another . Check your HDTV 's settings ... chances are it has something like this and you are n't aware of it . Though , admittedly there are some HDTVs without such a capability ( sadly ) and for these you 'll need to find a solution that lets you reduce the resolution output to the HDTV . Update : I found the following article explains well both the issue and troubleshooting steps : <URL> . Plus : some folks have successfully replaced the Apple video drivers in their Bootcamp Windows with ATI drivers , in order to access settings to compensate for the HDTV overscan . See this blog post : <URL> . Got ATI video in your Mac ? Worth a shot perhaps , if you do . Take a backup before messing with drivers , of course .
After a quick search I found this information : If you 're in Windows , you can switch to the Mac OS X partition using the Boot Camp icon in the System Tray . Click the gray diamond-shaped icon , and click " Restart in Mac OS " from the pop-up menu . Then , confirm your choice to reboot to Mac OS X . When you back in OS X you can change the startup disk via sys. pref . > startup disk
There 's an access door on the bottom of the Mac which can be unscrewed . For further access , you need to take the glass off , which is fixed with fourteen magnets . Source : <URL>
Whited00r is not iOS 7 . It just looks and feels like iOS 7 . You wo n't be able to install iOS 7 applications or have access to many of the features of iOS 7 . You 're still running iOS 4 under the hood , and all you have to do is restore in iTunes if you do n't like it .
I would n't recommend it . I 'd try hard to remember to discharge on something more robust first . The reason you get away with it is that the case acts as a <URL> , sending the ' zap ' of static charge round the outside of the casing , rather than through the components inside . This , however , does n't include the power adapter itself , which is taking the brunt of the power-flow . It will be protected against such , but I would n't recommend making a habit of it , it wo n't survive it forever . The standard design of any inline or ' wall wart ' type power supply is that they are not in fact Earthed [ US grounded , though unfortunately that term causes confusion as it appears it can apply to a return path rather than a true earth connected to physical ' dirt ' / cold water mains supply etc ] The same type of supply is responsible for the buzz or hum you can sometimes feel when you touch a device powered from this type of power supply - it is leakage of very small quantities of high voltage which the PSU fails to suppress ; not in itself dangerous . In the case of you ' zapping ' the computer with built-up static electricity , the charge can actually return down the same path that causes the ' buzz ' .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
Yes you can do it using an Active HDMI to MiniDisplay port adaptor like <URL> but as you can see it 's not cheap
Yes , it wo n't hurt the iMac . In fact they can even be used sideways , as long as you do n't block any vents . Hard drive bearings are said to last longest when they are either upright or flat , but apart from the convection-cooled Mac Cube I do n't know of any Mac that depends on orientation for cooling or anything else . If you are putting them away for any length of time , get some <URL> packets or a " <URL> " or local equivalent to ensure humidity does not speed corrosion or otherwise damage your machines . Wrap them tightly in plastic to prevent critters crawling in , there is nothing worse than finding something living in your old computer . Dead bodies or other debris may be corrosive or conductive . If your iMac is the CRT kind consider cutting a panel out of plywood to protect the glass screen . CRTs are hard to smash but easy to scratch or chip . If you are putting away anything really precious ( iMac signed by the Steves ? ) best practice is sealing the computer in an environment of dry nitrogen gas - it 's a serious measure but not actually that hard to do since airtight bags are easy to find and nitrogen is becoming common in <URL> . Removing oxygen prevents oxidisation ( rust ) and will also make it impossible for creatures to colonise your Mac since they can not live without oxygen . In the last decade the <URL> has seen the use of lead-free solder increase . One big problem with this is the growth of " <URL> " from the solder and other circuit elements that can bridge what should be gaps between circuit paths . While the exact cause of whiskers and the right way to prevent their growth post-manufacturing is still unknown there are minority suggestions that vacuum or nitrogen environments help - but from my reading , a temperature-controlled or even cycling environment is more likely to be effective . When the exact facts are known the right way to store computers long-term will probably change . But it 's sad to think that there is a risk to our machines even if they are well cared-for . <URL> so this applies to them . Older machines may well be manufactured using lead solder and so tin whiskers would not be an issue . I could not find a definitive answer .
Applications bought through the Mac App Store are handled by Apple 's mechanism . Most non-App Store Mac applications include their own built-in software updating mechanisms . I would approach this as a question of what value does Mac Informer offer over the risk of opening up your Mac to an unknown company . At some stage , the application will need your administrator privileges to install software updates . This will expose your Mac to any actions , positive or negative , the application wishes to take . The lack of identifiable individuals , lack of physical address , and lack of registered company details on the about page does concern me .
Yes , you can delete these <URL> files safely . These files provide human readable names for code within the framework or application . Removing the dSYM files will not affect the framework or associated application 's ability to run . Purpose of a dSYM Should the calling application or framework crash , the dSYM file is used to provide more readable insight into where the crash occurred in the code . Apple 's <URL> shows how dSYM files are used -- the same approach applies to iOS and Mac OS X. dSYM for Developers Ideally , the developer keeps a copy of the dSYM files and does not distribute these files with their application or frameworks . When crashes occur , the customer sees a technically obtuse crash report which they can report . The developer can then combine their local dSYM files with the crash report and produce a more readable crash report that should help track down the problem .
You can not transmit the output of your Windows screen through an iMac display , but there is one way to work that you may find quite appealing : Microsoft Remote Desktop . MS has a remote desktop client application that is a free download from the App Store . On your Windows machine , you change System preferences in Control Panel to enable remote access . In the Remote Desktop app on your iMac , you create a machine profile that specifies the Windows computer name or IP address , your account username and your password . It supports fullscreen mode , so your Windows login will be plenty big on your 27 " display . I use the application daily to remotely administer Windows desktops and servers all over the country . From the comfort of my MacBook .
The <URL> and the <URL> does not mention target display mode as a feature . That unfortunately means that the Early 2009 generation of iMacs did not offer a target display mode so you will not be able to use that displayport output as an input source .
Resume , counterintuitively , does not actually save anything itself . It simply relaunches all the applications that were running when you shut your computer down . It 's the job of those Lion-compatible applications to restore their windows . Safe sleep , on the other hand , saves a snapshot of your RAM to your HDD when you put your computer to sleep . In case of power failure , the machine boots from this file on startup . Safe sleep is the only time ( that I know of ) that OS X saves its RAM . You can use the command line utility ( specifically the command where is the sleep mode ) to change the sleep mode , although there is no significant benefit in doing this . The three main different kinds of sleep are as follows ( from the page ) : hibernatemode = 0 ( binary 0000 ) by default on supported desktops . The system will not back memory up to persistent storage . The system must wake from the contents of memory ; the system will lose context on power loss . This is , historically , plain old sleep . hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . hibernatemode = 25 ( binary 0001 1001 ) is only settable via pmset . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will remove power to memory . The system will restore from disk image . If you want " hibernation " - slower sleeps , slower wakes , and better battery life , you should use this setting . As I stated before , configuring the sleep mode is not recommended ( again from the page ) : We do not recommend modifying hibernation settings . Any changes you make are not supported . If you choose to do so anyway , we recommend using one of these three settings . For your sake and mine , please do n't use anything other 0 , 3 , or 25 . I do n't know about the script vs. user issue , although I highly doubt there is a difference .
According to <URL> I can safely ( re ) move the installer application and still download it again from the App Store without paying again . It is unclear whether I will get update notifications . <URL> on a story about an attempt to upgrade Xcode with low disk space indicates that the move to an external disk may be tracked by the OS , and an upgrade via the Mac App Store can result in the moved application ( even if it 's on an external disk ) being upgraded . I did not get an upgrade notification for Xcode 4.0.1 , even though my original installer application was still in the folder . I moved the installer application to an external disk ( via , because dragging it in Finder gave me the message " You may need to enter the name and password for an administrator on this computer to change the item named " Install Xcode " . " ) , I 'll report back what happens when I try to upgrade it via the Mac App Store .
Without special software or hardware to do so , multiple connections are not combined for increased throughput , knowing as bonding . The connections are utilized in the order shown in System Preferences > Network ( screenshot below ) . You can change the order by clicking the gear icon > Set Service Order . There is no harm in letting the computer connect to the router , other than possibly a slight impact on load in the router - but assuming the connection is not being actively utilized , impact should be slight to none . The only way I am aware of to prevent the Mac from connecting to the router is to not tell it the password or turn Wi-Fi off .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
Provided you have done what Vlad said ( enable the Bluetooth sharing ) and paired the devices ( which you seem to have done ) , I have absolutely no problem to send files via bluetooth using my Nexus-S . I have ICS 4.03 now , but I had 2.3.x ( where X is 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 if I 'm not mistaken ) . Once you have the devices Paired , if the Mac is in range and with BT enabled , the phone can send files because the Mac should be on the phone 's list of paired devices . I recall that in 2.3.x sometimes it wo n't work , but retrying to turning on/off BT was usually enough . I do n't use it a lot , but I just tried ( after months of probably never touching bluetooth on either device ) and I got this : Here 's my preference pane : and Finally , this is my Phone 's paired list ( two are intentionally blurred ) , but you can see my Macbook Air : Hope you can double-check your settings . For reference : I have Firewall ON I have Firewall Stealth ON . Here 's my Firewall Screen ( app list blurred by me ) :
The cones in almost any speaker will break down over time . Various environmental factors will determine how long a speaker lasts , but overdriving the element can definitely have an adverse effect . It 's impossible to provide any precise data but in short , you 're probably shortening the life of the speakers ( by an indeterminate amount of time ) by running them at maximum volume but , provided you 're not hearing any distortion from the speakers , you 're not damaging them by doing so .
Yes , it 's possible to replace your internal SATA drive with an SSD . <URL> guide to make sure you have all the tools/space to do that , it 's not hard , but it requires you to be careful and do it with patience , especially when removing the screen ( which must be done using suction cups ) . You can replace the Optical Drive with a Data Doubler and install any SATA drive in it . For example using the <URL> . Plan all this ahead , since you only want to do the iMac disassembly once . ;) Make sure that the Data Doubler is compatible with your model ( if not available you might have to wait a few weeks before they release a compatible model , it has always been like that ) . That way you 'll have an additional SSD Drive . Regarding the second part of your question , yes , you can either put the original drive ( 1TB ) in the Optical Drive and put the SSD where the original HDD was or you can install the SSD in the Data Doubler and boot from there . You can always install OS X in the SSD , boot from it , migrate some information from your 1TB drive and when you 're ready , format the old 1TB drive and use it as a secondary drive for whatever evil purposes you want , like to store your Home Folder ( search Ask Different for instructions on how to do that ) .
end question
