start question
Why does Currency Carry Trade work ?
As you say , the currency carry trade should n't work . The deluge of new cash into a high-interest currency should result in falling exchange rates . <URL> by Òscar Jordà and Alan Taylor of the University of California , Davis , may be offer one approach which is more stable . According to <URL> : They find that a refined carry-trade strategy -- one that incorporates a measure of long-term value -- produces more consistent profits and is less prone to huge losses than one that targets the highest yield . However , exchange rates , central bank interest rates , as well as money supply are all political as well as economic constructs . An economic driver for arbitrage may be offset by political will ( such as US quantative easing ) or even social malaise ( Japanese continual low inward investment ) . I would n't go so far as calling the carry trade " free money " - currencies have proven far too unstable for that - but state interference in markets tends to be clearly telegraphed and a trader with nerves of steel may take advantage of it .
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
There is no one answer to this question , but there are some generalities . Most exchanges make a distinction between the passive and the aggressive sides of a trade . The passive participant is the order that was resting on the market at the time of the trade . It is an order that based on its price was not executable at the time , and therefore goes into the order book . For example , I 'm willing to sell 100 shares of a stock at $ 9.98 but nobody wants to buy that right now , so it remains as an open order on the exchange . Then somebody comes along and is willing to meet my price ( I am glossing over lots of details here ) . So they aggressively take out my order by either posting a market-buy , or specifically that they want to buy 100 shares at either $ 9.98 , or at some higher price . Most exchanges will actually give me , as the passive ( i.e. liquidity making ) investor a small rebate , while the other person is charged a few fractions of a cent . Google found <URL> details , and most other exchanges make their fees public as well . As of this writing the generic price charged/credited : $ 0.0023 per share ( credit ) for orders that provide liquidity to the Book $ 0.003 per share ( fee ) for orders that take liquidity from the Book But they provide volume discounts , and many of the larger deals do fall into another tier of volume , which provides a different price structure .
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
Use a currency ETF . there are many . Specific to your question there is <URL> I do n't happen to find a currency ETF for Thailand , so the closest you could come to a Thai currency fund would be something that 's an Index fund ETF that is based on an index in the Thai Market such as : <URL> Because that fund is investing in an index of stocks that trade on the Thai market , you are in effect investing in something denominated in Baht . This is spelled out in the prospectus where it discusses ' currency risk ' . The problem is that you are however not investing in just the currency , but rather a broad index of stocks denominated in that currency . Still to the extent the market holds fairly steady , you get much the same effect of investing in just the currency . to the extent the market is moving , you get the net effect of what the thai market does , plus how the bhat trades relative to the dollar .
I 've never heard of such a thing , but seems like if such a product existed it would be easily manipulated by the big trading firms - simply bet that trading volume will go up , then furiously buy and sell shares yourself to artificially drive up the volume . The fact that it would be so easily manipulated makes me think that no such product exists , but I could be wrong .
As per RBI regulations , all transaction originated in India [ i.e. Merchants in India ] and cards issued in India . As of now if a merchant is not in India , then OTP or additional password is not required . The Financial Institutions had contended that making changes for Gateways outside of India would be a technical challenge . This was accepted by RBI as it was deemed that number of user 's doing international transaction is small and hence the chances of fraud are less . Quite a few companies , UberCabs for example switched the gateway to US so that they could bill customers without OTP .
This 2010 SEC rule seems to say that under extraordinary circumstances , a trade can be cancelled , by the exchange , any time after it was made : Release No. 34-62259 ; File No . SR-NYSEArca-2010-47 Rule 6.89 ... According to the proposal , in the event of any verifiable disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of any electronic communications and trading facilities of the Exchange , in which the nullification or modification of transactions may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors and the public interest exist , a Trading Official , on his or her own motion , may review such transactions and declare such transactions arising out of the use or operation of such facilities during such period null and void or modify the terms of these transactions , in accordance with the guidelines contained in sections ( a ) ( 3 ) ( C ) ( i ) ( aa ) - ( bb ) of Rule 6.87 . Pursuant to the proposal , the Trading Official , absent extraordinary circumstances , must initiate action under this authority within sixty ( 60 ) minutes of the occurrence of the erroneous transaction that was a result of the verifiable disruption or malfunction . [ Italics are mine . ] <URL> This rule seems to have gone into effect because it was cited in this news article : <URL> This is an interesting rule I had not known about previously , I wonder if it gives too much power to the exchange ...
Any large stockbroker will offer trading in US securities . As a foreign national you will be required to register with the US tax authorities ( IRS ) by completing and filing a <URL> form and pay US withholding taxes on any dividend income you receive . US dividends are paid net of withholding taxes , so you do not need to file a US tax return . Capital gains are not subject to US taxes . Also , each year you are holding US securities , you will receive a form from the IRS which you are required to complete and return . You will also be required to complete and file forms for each of the exchanges you wish to received market price data from . Trading will be restricted to US trading hours , which I believe is 6 hours ahead of Denmark for the New York markets . You will simply submit an order to the desired market using your broker 's online trading software or your broker 's telephone dealing service . You can expect to pay significantly higher commissions for trading US securities when compared to domestic securities . You will also face potentially large foreign exchange fees when exchaning your funds from EUR to USD . All in all , you will probably be better off using your local market to trade US index or sector ETFs .
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
Negative interest rates already exist . Like the after tax real interest rate on US T-bills has been negative for 60 years ( Refer to <URL> ) . And in periods of price inflation , of course , the monetary base is under a real negative interest rate , as well as assets with " too low " nominal interest rates . Many economists like Paul Krugman , Greg Mankiw and Willem Buiter recently mentioned that the equlibrium interest rate also currently is negative and even a nominal 0 % is not sensible at all . E.g. here : <URL> Further , even if the the real interest rate is negative , it still can be too high ! Too high meaning that it could still be above the equilibrium interest rate if that is even deeper negative . How the equilibrium interest rate can be negative is easy to imagine : Credit is basically intertemporal trade . And the interest rate is the price for intertemporal trade . If more people want to save money for their retirement then people want ( and can ! ) borrow for the current interest rate , then the interest rate has to drop . And if even at 0 % more people want to save money , the interest rate has to fall below 0 % to reach equilibrium . The limit is the interest rate on the monetary base , which can not go below nominally 0 % . Actually , only cash is a problem , as you could not force anyone to receive the negative interest ( which means : pay for keeping cash ) . As long as the only way is price inflation , it unfortunately always means more indeptness . If no one else can , the governments have to . Thats always the problem with minimum price guarantees : Either the governments have to force someone to pay the lifted price or the government has to pay it themselves . All this is taught to economic students in the first two years . Just that almost no one applies such simple market mechanisms to money . Instead most economists think that money is just a measure . Thanks to Krugman , Mankiw and Buiter and some others to start breaking this error .
My husband had this come up when he went to Kuwait from August2006 - August 2007 . Its all based on the percentage of the time . So say the first 90k is taxfree . If you were there 3 months of that tax year then 25 % of 90,000 is your " tax-free " income and the rest of the money earned in those 3 months is taxed at the appropriate tax bracket rate . Then the following year you take the other 75 % ( 67,500 ) free and tax the rest . You will have to pay your estimated taxes and file an extension for the first year so that you can prove the 330/365 days to the IRS . Get a really good accountant or you will still be paying taxes and penalties years later like we are .
It depends on the countries involved ... The ATM or Credit cards are expensive options in terms of rates ... The best deals are with the currency exchange counters [ not at airport ] at some busy places ... One needs to find out which is stronger currency , ie is the demand more for foreign currency or local currency ... For example if you have USD and are travelling from US to any Asian countries , it makes sense to exchange the USD in the local Asian countries as the demand for USD is more in these local markets , it would be a bad idea for excahange this in US [ for some currencies the option may also not be available ] If you are trying to exchange between 2 equally strong currencies [ say USD , GBP , EUR , etc ] then it doesnt matter much where you get it changed ... One also needs to consider local practises , for example in UK , most currency houses charge a Conversion fee above the rate making it a very bad deal .
What you are missing is " leverage " , which is the typical case for real estate purchases . Buyers usually only put a percentage of the cash down , not the whole amount . So instead you have something like this : Year 0 : Buy $ 100,000 house for 10,000 down . $ 10,000 equity , $ 90,000 debt . Year 5 : Sell house for $ 300,000 . Even if the debt was not payed down and ignoring fees/expenses , that means you have $ 210,000 in cash at sale . 300,000 sale - 90,000 debt = $ 210,000 , so 200,000 profit out of your starting 10k in cash . So , let 's say the $ 150,000 house also tripled to $ 450,000 . When you first bought you could only obtain a $ 90,000 loan with your $ 10k cash , but at the same 90 % loan-to-value ratio $ 210,000 could now secure you a house costing $ 2.1 million . That 's leverage in action . You could also put all the cash down on the expensive house and it is now available to you with a ~ 50 % loan , whereas previously it could not be purchased at all . Note that the " upgrade " still increases your debt and overwhelms your equity , so you go from being up 200k after the sale to being in debt by millions after the purchase , and it also increases your expenses . This is why this is a dangerous game . If your plan was to " upgrade " again at year 10 , or at least cash out and enjoy being a millionaire , what if house prices fell , flat-lined , only grew very slowly - and something happened to your income and you could n't keep up those huge debt payments ? If things go as planned , though , leverage is what delivers the theoretically big upgrade . House prices grow by a percentage of their value - regardless of the percentage of the value you have in equity at the beginning , and regardless of how big the theoretical loan is . If housing prices increase faster than the yearly interest ( which is certainly not guaranteed ! ) you pay on the loan , every year is a paper profit and your buying power increases . In fast-growing housing areas , this was what created the " property ladder " . You bought a house , and in a few years it was worth vastly more - and your income was probably higher now , because the economy was booming . So you bought a bigger , fancier house and in a few more years sold that too ( or just refinanced ) and bought another . 20-30 years of regular living produced millions in profits once it was time to sell the great big house , downsize , and enjoy your retirement . This has lots of assumptions - from higher income to fast growing housing markets , to employment stability , ease of selling or refinancing , etc. . Do n't assume what works on paper necessarily will work in practice !
It 's important to understand that , in general , security transactions involve you and a relatively unknown entity with your broker standing in the middle . When you sell through Schwab , Schwab needs to receive the funds from the other side of the transaction . If Schwab gave you access to the funds immediately , it would essentially be a loan until the transaction settles after funds and securities change hands . If Schwab made funds available to you as soon as they were received , it might still be two days until the money is received ; because the other side also has three days . Guaranteed one day settlement would have to include receipt of funds from the buyer in one day and Schwab ca n't control that . You need to remember this transaction likely includes at least one party in addition to you and Schwab . Here 's the SEC page related to the three day settlement period , <URL>
Historically , the year ( for all purposes ) began on March 25th . When Britain finally switched to the Gregorian calendar , 12 days were skipped - so to make sure the tax year in the year of the switch was still the normal length , the next tax year was started on April 6th . From <URL> : The odd dates are due to events in the mid-18th century . The English quarter days are traditionally used as the dates for collecting rents ( on , for example , agricultural properties ) . The tax system was also based on a tax year ending on Lady Day ( 25 March ) . When the Gregorian calendar was adopted in the UK in September 1752 in place of the Julian calendar , the two were out of step by 11 days . However , it was felt unacceptable for the tax authorities to lose out on 11 days ' tax revenues , so the start of the tax year was moved , firstly to 5 April and then , in 1800 , to 6 April . The tax year is sometimes also called the Fiscal Year . The Financial Year , used mainly for corporation tax purposes , runs from 1 April to 31 March . Financial Year 2011 runs from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011 , as Financial Years are named according to the calendar year in which they end .
Why does the rising price of a bond pushes it 's yield down ? The bond price and its yield are linked ; if one goes up , the other must go down . This is because the cash flows from the bond are fixed , predetermined . The market price of the bond fluctuates . Now what if people are suddenly willing to pay more for the same fixed payments ? It must mean that the return , i.e. the yield , will be lower . Here we see that risk associated with the bonds in question has skyrocketed , and thus bonds ' returns has skyrocketed , too . Am I right ? The default risk has increased , yes . Now , I assume that bonds ' price is determined by the market ( issued by a state , traded at the market ) . Is that correct ? Correct , as long as you are talking about the market price . Then who determines bonds ' yields ? I mean , is n't it fixed ? Or - in the FT quote above - they are talking about the yields for the new bonds issued that particular month ? The yield is not fixed - the cash flows are . Yield is the internal rate of return . See my answer above to your first question .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
This is just a guess but I would imagine that it has to do with risk . The deposits in Banks are usually as safe as government bonds ( broad oversimplification ) as : Usually bank deposits are insured by local equivalent of FDIC . I 'm not sure about local regulation but it means that they are backed partially by the government - at least this is the case in US and EU . If government is close to default it can and do freeze the Bank assets . For example see Cyprus bank tax in 2013 . The US government is considered the most trustworthy - even in unlikely event of being close to default it would be rescued by FED ( so it can just print the money ) . So the banks at the same time have very low competition regarding government bonds and the investments they can do have relatively low ROI so they can not offer much more competitive rates . On the other hand Ukrainian bonds have current rating Caa3/CCC - / CCC - i.e. the Goverment is judged to be likely to default ( as you pointed out there is war going on ) and in result the government bonds are considered highly speculative . Therefore to attract foreign investors they need to have high interest rating . Similarly the CDs at the banks can be considered at the risk of being lost so to prevent flight of capital overseas ( or people keeping USD in cash form at home ) they need to offer rates that reflect the risk .
end question
start question
India Income Tax : Need to Pay Tax on Savings Account Interest for FY 2012-13 Or Not ?
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
I did receive TurboTax 's automatically generated confirmation of successfully completing tax filing electronically the day I did my tax on their web site . About 24 to 48 hours after you push the button at TurboTax the IRS should either confirm or reject the initial check of the tax documents . You should return to the TurboTax website to make sure the IRS has accepted the reutrn . Next review either the confirmation you received when you pushed the button or the information at the TurboTax site . It should specify when the money would be withdrawn . You were given options regarding payment method and date you want to make the payment . Many people who finish their tax paperwork early , but owe money wait until the last day to submit . Now it is possible to submit paperwork early but specify a date just before the deadline . Print out or even better save an electronic copy of the information at the TurboTax website . I have no idea how long it takes the IRS to actually pull the money from an account , once the day you specified has occurred . You have to plan as if the withdraw will happen on the exact date , but with millions of tax payers making transactions it may be delayed by a day or two .
According to <URL> , broker 's commissions for stock transactions within an IRA can not be paid in addition to the IRA contribution ( s ) , but they are deductible as part of the contribution , or add to the basis if you are making a nondeductible contribution to a Traditional IRA . ( Top of Page 10 , and Page 12 , column 1 , in the 2012 edition of Pub 590 ) . On the other hand , trustees ' administrative fees can be paid from outside the IRA if they are billed separately , and are even deductible as a Miscellaneous Deduction on Schedule A of your income tax return ( subject to the 2 % of AGI threshold ) . A long time ago , when my IRA account balances were much smaller , I used to get a bill from my IRA custodian for a $ 20 annual administrative fee which I paid separately ( but never got to deduct due to the 2 % threshold ) . My custodian also allowed the option of doing nothing in which case the $ 20 would be collected from ( and thus reduce ) the amount of money in my IRA . Note that this does not apply to the expenses charged by the mutual funds that you might have in your IRA ; these expenses are treated the same as brokerage commissions and must be paid from within the IRA .
Ignoring other factors , like being able to invest in other places with a higher return , it is never better to pay interest , no matter what the tax deduction . You get to deduct a portion of the interest , but are still out of pocket for the rest . Take a simple example , a $ 10,000 loan with a 1 % simple yearly interest rate and a 30 % marginal tax rate . You would pay $ 100 in interest on the loan . Come tax time , you would get to deduct 30 % of the $ 100 , or $ 30 . So you still end up paying $ 70 in interest .
You do not report the Roth IRA on your 1040 because it has no implication to your current tax situation ( as you fund it with after-tax dollars ) . Your IRA custodian ( s ) would report the contributions to the IRS on form <URL> , which would then be used to determine if all of your contributions for the tax year were under the Roth IRA limits . If you did over-contribute , you are subject to a penalty , per year , of 6 % of the above-the-limit amount ; so if you contributed $ 6,000 , and your limit was $ 5,500 , you may be subject to a penalty of .06 * 500 or $ 30 per year until you correct the over-contribution ( by withdrawing the over amount plus its portion of the IRA 's gains , paying taxes on the gains , and paying any early withdrawal penalties if applicable ) . ( Credit to <URL> for the <URL> in comments . )
The back pay will explain the high rate . You are being taxed on a month one basis . <URL> says W1 ( week 1 ) and M1 ( month 1 ) are emergency tax codes . This means your tax is based only on what you are paid in the current pay period , not the whole year . These codes are sometimes known as ' non-cumulative ' . Thus the tax is calculated as if you were getting the amount you got this month for every month in the year . So compare 12 times the amount with the tax allowances to see where you get taxed at the higher rate . ( or divide the allowances by 12 ) When your records have been consolidated the emergency code is removed and the amount you pay will be adjusted to the correct level and this will include a refund if necessary Doing a calculation at annual rates Gross salary of # 68,500 first # 11,000 at 0 next # 32,000 at 20 % = # 6,400 next # 25,500 at 40 % = # 10,200 So net tax of # 16,600 a rate of 24.23 % So you received about # 5,708 in one month
It is generally best to avoid such situations . Any credits to your accounts need to be explained to tax authorities whenever they enquire . This can not be treated as income as you did not work in exchange for the amount . It can be treated by tax authorities as GIFT . Gift upto certain amount is tax free . Beyond the amount its taxable . Gifts from close relatives has not amount limit and is tax free . Whenever the scrutiny happens , if you can convince the tax authorities that the action was more for convenience , it maybe fine .
No . Things are a little complicated , but in a nutshell , assuming you 'll be staying there for at least an entire tax year without any interruptions , you 're entitled to a <URL> that reduces taxable income . For 2014 , the maximum exclusion was $ 99,200 per taxpayer . So unless your income gets passed the $ 99,200 threshold , you do n't have to worry about paying income taxes in the U.S.
The IRS defines income quite specifically . On the topic <URL> , they note : You can receive income in the form of money , property , or services . This section discusses many kinds of income that are taxable or nontaxable . It includes discussions on employee wages and fringe benefits , and income from bartering , partnerships , S corporations , and royalties . Bartering , or giving someone wages ( or similar ) in something other than currency ( or some other specifically defined things , like fringe benefits ) , is taxed at fair market value : Bartering Bartering is an exchange of property or services . You must include in your income , at the time received , the fair market value of property or services you receive in bartering . For additional information , Refer to Tax Topic 420 - Bartering Income and Barter Exchanges . Bartering is more specifically covered in <URL> : You must include in gross income in the year of receipt the fair market value of goods or services received from bartering . Generally , you report this income on Form 1040 , Schedule C ( PDF ) , Profit or Loss from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ ( PDF ) , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) . If you failed to report this income , correct your return by filing a Form 1040X ( PDF ) , Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return . Refer to Topic 308 for information on filing an amended return . More details about income in general beyond the above articles is available in <URL> . It goes into great detail about different kinds of income . In your example , you 'd have to calculate the fair market value of an avocado , and then determine how much cash-equivalent you were paid in . The IRS would n't necessarily tell you what that value was ; you 'd calculate it based on something you feel you could justify to them afterwards . The way I 'd do it would be to write down the price of avocados at each pay period , and apply a dollar-cost-averaging type method to determine the total pay 's fair value . While the avocado example is of course largely absurd , the advent of bitcoins has made this much more relevant . Publication 525 has this to say about virtual currency : Virtual Currency . If your employer gives you virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) as payment for your services , you must include the fair market value of the currency in your income . The fair market value of virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) paid as wages is subject to federal income tax withholding , Federal Insurance Contribution Act ( FICA ) tax , and Federal Unemployment Tax Act ( FUTA ) tax and must be reported on Form W-2 , Wage and Tax Statement . Gold would be fundamentally similar - although I am not sure it 's legal to pay someone in gold ; assuming it were , though , its fair market value would be again the definition of income . Similarly , if you 're paid in another country 's currency , the US dollar equivalent of that is what you 'll pay taxes on , at the fair market value of that currency in US dollars .
Yes . But once you chose the method ( on your first tax return ) , you can not change it without the IRS approval . Similarly the fiscal year . For individuals , I ca n't think of any reason why would accrual basis be better than cash , or why would an individual use a fiscal year other than the calendar year .
Found the problem , the actual numbers used are for the annual , not for semi-monthly , so multiplying my gross by 24 and calculating that way , then dividing the final tax by 24 solved the problem .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
IRS refunds are not taxable . State/local refunds are taxable , if you itemized your deductions for that year , to the extent that the overpayment provided tax benefit . IRS <URL> to calculate that . Just to clarify : this is taxable in the year received . You do not need to amend the prior years . So if you received a $ 100 refund for State taxes you paid in 2010 in the year 2012 - it will appear on your 1040 for the year 2012 , no need to amend 2010 .
Yes , you will need to pay capital gains tax in MA for that transaction . Here 's how " <URL> " is defined in MA . It short , it follows the Federal definitions for most cases , including yours . Note that MA follows the Federal rules with regards to the <URL> ( exclusion of gains on the sale of principal residence ) .
From strictly a gross revenue point of view , the parking spot is going to yield a higher rate ( 5.4 % ) versus a 3 % savings account , assuming you have it rented all year . Your break-even point ( not considering other expenses ) is 7-8 months of rent per year . So , what are things to consider ? Here 's a few to start with . Does location give the parking spot a potential for appreciation of rent or value as economic conditions change ? What is demand like ? Will you be able to rent it consistently ? My neighbor rents a garage to college faculty on a semester basis , and it is often difficult to get tenants in the summertime . What are the carrying costs associated with the spot ? Insurance , property tax , business district fees , etc. . What are your liquidity requirements ? Conveying real property is more time consuming than liquidating savings . This relates to the location too : you can sell a spot in a business district or high-density neighborhood quickly . Does anything about the location limit downside risk ? e.g. stable generators of parking demand like a commuter train station , government office , large apartment , etc. . The parking spot is a nice investment in that you get a decent return , and the potential for appreciation . The savings account/CD will give you a fixed return with no risk . To support your decision , make sure you understand all of the costs and understand all of the downside risk . If you 're 50 and this is alot of money to you , be conservative . If you 're 25 and have a good job , you can afford to chase the yield .
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
I 'm not aware of banks offering savings account for specific reasons , other than certain accounts for college funds , as the number of reasons someone might want to open a savings account is almost infinite . What I did was open 3 savings accounts with the same bank ( I could have opened more , but I did n't need more ) . Each account is labeled with a nickname for it 's specific purpose : Vacation , Emergencies , and Annual fees . This way , I can make automated deposits to each one based on my monthly budgets and track them independently . Most E-Banks offer this type of setup ( CapitalOne even advertises it as a " feature " ) and the interest rate will likely be better than a standard brick-and-mortar bank .
For a person to totally skip the gift tax provision , the money must be paid directly from the giver to the school . For example , if the grandparents want to pay for college they can send a tuition payment directly to the school . Even if the annual tuition is $ 30,000 . Normally , a person can give $ 14,000 to another person without having to reduce their lifetime exemption for estate tax . Let us say that tuition is $ 30,000 per year , room and board $ 15,000 per year , and books $ 1,000 per year : for a total of $ 46,000 per year . If they give all the money to the child , they will have to reduce their lifetime exemption by ( 46K - 14K ( Grandparent 1 ) -14 K ( grandparent 2 ) ) or $ 18,000 for that year . If they send the tuition payment of 30K directly to the school , the remaining 16K can be covered by splitting the gift to the student between the two grandparents . Now to your situation . The provision you quoted does n't apply . Sending the payment to the bank is n't the same as sending it to the school . The quoted section is to allow a person to fund another persons education without having the money be commingled with all the other money the student has . But you can send 14K to each parent , and they can use it to pay off the loan without you having to reduce your lifetime exemption . The good news is that as soon as January rolls around you can send another $ 14K to each parent . That mean you can send a total of $ 56,000 to them in the next 6 months . You can double the numbers if you are married and your spouse also send $ 14K to each of your parents every year . Unfortunately , the payments are not a source of deduction for you . They are a gift to a family member , they are n't a donation to a charity .
end question
start question
Can I get an Amazon Rewards Visa just for the gift card and then close the account ?
It might work , assuming you can instantly qualify for the credit card . I 'd bet that is n't likely to happen if you have never had a credit card before though . ( I extrapolate that to assume you do n't have much of a credit report . I could be wrong . ) However , it is a gift card , not cash . You would at best get $ 30 worth of stuff and shipping from Amazon . Your credit would take a hit from the credit inquiry . Then get a small bump from the new credit limit increase and lower utilization . Then you would cancel it and your limit goes down because your utilization goes up , thereby making your credit score go lower . ( This assume you utilize credit in some other fashion at all ) Net effect ? Your score goes down because you applied for the card . This is also highly dependent on the time frame in which this all happens . Credit reports wo n't show any activity for a couple of months . So the up and down could cancel each other out if you do it too fast . My advice , do n't apply for credit you do n't want or need . Certainly do n't apply for credit just to get a reward or discount . The rewards and discounts are only smart if you were already making the purchase . To expand on the question you did n't ask , it is a pretty solid decision to get a credit card , especially if you do n't need one . You will ( sadly ) be judged on your credit for more things that just buying stuff . ( Insurance , jobs , rental agreements , etc ) Credit takes time to build , so getting started before you need it is important . If you do n't need it , you can develop good habits around credit . ( Always pay it off , never carry a balance , never charge more than you can afford to pay that day ) I suggest you join a credit union and get a credit card from there . They will have programs and better deals . Once you have the card from your credit union , and you if you find credit cards fit your lifestyle , AND if you find you can manage credit responsibly , then feel free to find a rewards card you like ( such as Amazon ) and apply for it .
Let me start by giving you a snippet of a report that will floor you . Beat the market ? Investors lag the market by so much that many call the industry a scam . <URL> This is the 2015 year end data from a report titled Quantitive Analysis of Investor Behavior by a firm , Dalbar . It boggles the mind that the disparity could be this bad . A mix of stocks and bonds over 30 years should average 8.5 % or so . Take out fees , and even 7.5 % would be the result I expect . The average investor return was less than half of this . Jack Bogle , founder of Vanguard , and considered the father of the index fund , was ridiculed . A pamphlet I got from Vanguard decades ago quoted fund managers as saying that " indexing is a path to mediocrity . " Fortunately , I was a numbers guy , read all I could that Jack wrote and got most of that 10.35 % , less .05 , down to .02 % over the years . To answer the question : psychology . People are easily scammed as they want to believe they can beat the market . Or that they 'll somehow find a fund that does it for them . I 'm tempted to say ignorance or some other hint at lack of intelligence , but that would be unfair to the professionals , all of which were scammed by Madoff . Individual funds may not be scams , but investors are partly to blame , buy high , sell low , and you get the results above , I dare say , an investor claiming to use index funds might not fare much better than the 3.66 % 30 year return above , if they follow that path , buying high , selling low . Edit - I am adding this line to be clear - My conclusion , if any , is that the huge disparity can not be attributed to management , a 6.7 % lag from the S&amp;P return to what the average investor sees likely comes from bad trading . To the comments by Dave , we have a manager that consistently beats the market over any 2-3 year period . You have been with him 30 years and are clearly smiling about your relationship and investing decision . Yet , he still has flows in and out . People buy at the top when reading how good he is , and selling right after a 30 % drop even when he actually beat by dropping just 22 % . By getting in and out , he has a set of clients with a 30 year record of 6 % returns , while you have just over 11 % . This paragraph speaks to the behavior of the investor , not managed vs indexed .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
The <URL> state the following : Credit Bureau Reporting . We may report information about your account to credit bureaus . Late payments , missed payments , or other defaults on your account may be shown in your credit report . The card is issued by Synchrony Bank . Generally , store cards do report to credit bureaus , so I see no reason why this one would not .
Some additional information for the people who may read this question in the future : The situation is weird , to say the least . I 'm going to assume 2 things : You two ( you and the person who contacted you ) do n't know each other . You have only talked via e-mail , not voice . Now , look at these classic its-a-scam red flags : Random person contacts you . They want to do something with your bank account . They wont give out details about them , but will request/demand all sorts of personal/private details from you . They are in trouble . or its urgent . they want you to act fast ( haste makes waste ) Yet they can still communicate with you via internet/phone . In these conditions , it is not safe to give even the smallest shred of information to such people . I 'd advise you to ignore this person ( best option ) , or to offer to get them in touch with an official ( most scammers will run away at this point ) or threaten to report them ( not recommended , the scammer may take insult and try to " get back at you " ) . Hope this post helps and nobody gets scammed ! EDIT : Thank you for the amazing welcome ! If I 'd have known I 'd get such a huge response , I 'd have written a better answer ;) ( I hope I 'm not breaking any rules by this edit )
Either get it as cash or as a balance credit . Unless there 's a specific reason to do something else , these would be the most beneficial options . Using the reward balance towards purchases reduces the rewards you 'd be getting for these purchases . Since the reward used towards the purchase is not your " money spent " , you do n't get the reward on that amount . If you use your credit card to pay the full amount and apply your reward balance to the balance on your card - you 'll get rewards in full for your purchases .
There is no easy way to know for sure . Apple does vet applications , but not for many privacy concerns . If someone spent the time to test such an application out on a wifi network , and sniff the network traffic , then it 's possible to detect if the application is calling in to some central server , but even that wo n't detect everything . It is possible to reverse engineer the software , but that 's an expensive and/or time consuming process , so it 's unlikely that someone would take the time to do that . This is an area where developers could use some help . If a third party company vetted their software source code ( such as Verisign ) , then they might be able to extend assurances to their users . Until then , caveat emptor .
You can invest upto $ 200K per year abroad , and yes , you can buy Google as a stock . Consider opening an international account with a broker like interactive brokers ( www.interactivebrokers.co.in ) which allows you to fund the account from your local Indian account , and then on , buy shares of companies listed abroad .
You should start with a credit card with lower underwriting standards . A gasoline card or department store card is a good example . Make modest purchases and pay them off early or on time in full . I 'm assuming that you 're not leaving out things like late rent payments , judgements , defaulted loans , etc. . Do that for a few months , and sign up for a card marketed towards students . I 'd personally recommend an American Express card with no annual fee .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
A student on F1 working under the conditions of the OPT program is exempt from FICA taxes . Once you switch to H1b - you no longer have the exemption . You can use <URL> and <URL> to request the refund , if the employer can not or will not refund the withholding . Employer is the first stop , but keep in mind that you have 3 years at most to request the refund after filing the tax returns for the year in question ( or when they should have been filed , if you did n't ) . <URL> .
One alternative strategy you may want to consider is writing covered calls on the stock you have " just sitting there " . This will allow you to earn a return ( the premium from the calls ) without necessarily having to give up your holding . As a brief overview , " options " are derivatives that give the holder the right ( or option ) to buy or sell shares at a specified price . Holders of call options with a strike prike $ x on a particular security have the right to purchase that security at the strike price $ x. Conversely , holders of put options with a strike price of $ x have the right to sell that security at the strike price $ x. Always on the other side of a call or put option is a person that has sold the option , which is called " writing " the option . If this person writes a call option , then he will be obligated to sell a certain amount of stock ( 100 shares per contract ) at the strike price if that option is exercised . A writer of a put option will be obligated to by 100 shares per contract at the strike price if that option is exercised . Covered calls involve writing call contracts on stock that you own . For example , say you own 100 shares of AAPL , and that AAPL is currently trading for $ 330 . You decide to write a Jan 21 , 2012 call on these shares at a strike price of $ 340 , earning you a premium of say $ 300 . Two things can now happen : if the price of AAPL is not at least $ 340 on January 21 , then the options are " out of the money " and will expire unexercised ( why exercise an option to buy at $ 340 when you can buy at the currently cheaper market price ? ) . You keep your AAPL stock plus the $ 300 premium you earn . If , however , the price of AAPL is greater than $ 340 , the option will be exercised and you will now be required to sell the shares you own at $ 340 . You will earn a return of $ 10/share ( $ 340 - $ 330 ) , plus the $ 300 premium from the call option . You still make out in the end , but have unfortunately incurred an opportunity cost , as had you not written the call option you would have been able to sell at the market price , which is higher than the $ 340 strike price . Covered calls are considered relatively safe and conservative , however the strategy is most effective for stocks that are expected to stay within a relatively narrow price range for the duration of the contract . They do provide one option of earning additional money on stocks you are currently holding , albeit at the risk of giving up some returns if the stock price rises above the strike price .
Keep in mind , the W4 will get you to an accuracy of one exemption , i.e. the tax you 'll pay or not pay , on $ 3800 . So , for a 25 % marginal rate taxpayer , you can get as close as $ 950 , but would need to tinker a bit to get closer . You say you had too much withheld . I suggest you take to amount of your refund , divide by 1000 and just bump your exemptions by that much . ( If you are in the 15 % bracket , the exemption will reduce withholding by about $ 570 , so divide that refund by $ 600 and up your exemptions by that much . ) As simple at it tries to be , the W4 is more complicated than necessary . For those who need a simple tweak , this method works fine .
Enter the PAN number . If you do n't have one , get it by applying with Income Tax department India
Reward cards are for people who can demonstrate to the lender that paying them the rewards is " worth it " , and the lender comes ahead in the end . Let me step back from just answering your question and understand what you are trying to do . First , stop doing what you are doing right now . No further applications as you have reduced your chances of getting unsecured credit by having a lot of hard hits to your report . I assume you have a SSN , and in that case what you are doing is digging a deep hole to put yourself into the next year unless you have a job at hand ( to justify a debt-income ratio that a lender will look at before approval ) . Read this and ask questions : <URL> Tell us more about your background : esp . if you have a job , how much credit you are seeking and what made you decide applying for rewards cards was a good idea to begin with . Updated after OPs edit : Your question has been answered already : the answer being " Yes " . I trust the answer and the person behind it . However , I know where you are coming from , and what you should focus on is establish a strong foundation for your credit . In that light you should n't be asking about rewards card . Rewards will come ( I am told ) but the time 's not now . The reason is embedded in your own edit : For the record , I 'm an incoming PhD student on a fellowship with an expected annual income of $ 30k for the next 5 years . I wanted to apply for reward cards since some of them were available and I wanted to try them out ( but I 'm ignorant of the bigger picture as I know little about credit cards ) The lenders have no metric about your expected annual income : they can see the data in a W2 , in a 1040 or similar . Anything else is up for speculation ; even your expected salary on a contract : if your project gets shelved or your advisor gets fired , you no longer have the money . If the lender gives you a line of credit you are then likely to use it up and then have a hard time paying it back . Establish strong foundation for your credit , focus your efforts there for now . If you have done less than 3 apps recently , see if you get a secured credit card . If you do n't get approved , it looks like you can have your parents to help you out ? Add yourself as an authorized user to a BofA card they own . I know BofA reports the authorized users on their cards . You can try a student credit union : I use <URL> . They rock . The fact that my professors also have accounts there and I often go in with them when I have a favor to ask from the CU might bias my feedback , so do your own research . You are a smart guy , put that brain to use :-D Best of luck !
end question
start question
What Excel function to use to calculate the return or interest rate on a savings account ?
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
For an RRSP , you do not have to pay taxes on money or investments until you withdraw the money . If you do not reinvest the dividends but instead , take them out as cash , that would be withdrawing the money . For mutual funds , you would normally reinvest the dividends if holding the investment inside an RRSP . For stocks , I believe the dividends would end up sitting in the cash part of your RRSP account ( and you 'd probably use the money to buy more stocks , though would not be required to do so ) . Either way , you do not pay tax on this investment income unless you withdraw it from your RRSP . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your RRSP . You get the tax benefit from doing so . You get dividends of $ 1,000 ( hey , it was a good year ) , and use these to buy more stock . As the money never left your RRSP account , you are considered to have invested only your initial $ 10,000 . If instead , you withdraw the $ 1,000 in dividends , you are taxed on $ 1000 income . TFSA are slightly more complicated . You do n't get a tax benefit from your initial contribution , but then do not pay tax when you withdraw from the TFSA . Your investment income is still tax-free , and you are ( generally ) much more limited in how much you can contribute . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your TFSA . You get dividends of $ 1,000 , and use these to buy more stock . Your total contributions to your TFSA remains at $ 10,000 as the money never left your account . You could instead withdraw the $ 1000 from your TFSA and would not pay tax on it . In the next calendar year ( or later ) after the withdrawal , you could " repay " the $ 1000 you took out without suffering an overcontribution penalty . This makes TFSA an excellent place to park emergency funds , as you can withdraw and subsequently replace the investment while continuing to get the tax benefits on your investment income . RRSPs are better for retirement or for the home buyers plan . In general , you should not be withdrawing money from either your TFSA or RRSP , except in emergencies , when retiring , or when purchasing a home . I prefer indexed mutual funds or money market accounts for both my RRSP and TFSA rather than individual stocks , but that 's up to you .
This depends entirely on the kind of " IT " you 're doing . A couple of examples to illuminate how wide the term is : Computer support : expense Online banking : basic functionality is expense , but ability to upsell users to high-end products is income Automated stock trading : income - and it 's extremely high in demand To answer your core question : look beyond the title ( " IT " ) , to the function you 're providing to the bank , and ask if / how that function can generate money for the bank for better income possibilities ; if the answer is " none " , figure out which levers are closer to making money , and position yourself as such .
The simplest was is to just divide your total dividends for the year by your starting capital for that year . For example , if you start with $ 100000 in capital and earn $ 5000 in dividends during the year your dividend yield for that year would be 5 % . Even if you have n't fully invested your total capital during the year it is still available to be invested and the total should be used for the calculation . Once the year has ended you will have a new balance for you capital , which is the value you should use in the following year . An alternative to this calculation is to use your average capital for the year , add your starting and ending capital values and divide by 2 . You may want to use this method if you trade often during the year instead of buying all your investments only at the start of the year . Also , another thing to consider is whether you include the dividends as additions to your capital or if you withdrawal dividends when they are paid for your own cashflow . If you reinvest your dividends , then they should be included as part of your capital .
I 'm not aware of banks offering savings account for specific reasons , other than certain accounts for college funds , as the number of reasons someone might want to open a savings account is almost infinite . What I did was open 3 savings accounts with the same bank ( I could have opened more , but I did n't need more ) . Each account is labeled with a nickname for it 's specific purpose : Vacation , Emergencies , and Annual fees . This way , I can make automated deposits to each one based on my monthly budgets and track them independently . Most E-Banks offer this type of setup ( CapitalOne even advertises it as a " feature " ) and the interest rate will likely be better than a standard brick-and-mortar bank .
The <URL> to this question is a 4 % withdrawal rate . This means a net worth of ( $ 5000 * 12 months ) / 4 % , i.e. , $ 1,500,000 If you want to play with the numbers , based on historical data , you can use the <URL> .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
Having another source of lower interest credit , i.e. be prepared , if you are able , to be willing to shut down your line with this bank . Short of this , discussing your record of on time payments , current credit score , etc , may help .
<URL> . Unfortunately , I 'm on cold medicine so guessing was the only way I got to the answer , but I guessed right on the first try :) . However , <URL> : The following formula is used to calculate the fixed monthly payment ( P ) required to fully amortize a loan of L dollars over a term of n months at a monthly interest rate of c. [ If the quoted rate is 6 % , for example , c is .06 / 12 or .005 ] . P = L [ c ( 1 + c ) n ] / [ ( 1 + c ) n - 1 ]
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
There are many factors in your score . In the U.S. the most common factors you will find listed include : Credit Utilization - This is the percentage of credit you have used to what has been extended to you . If I have 2 credit cards , one with a $ 1000 limit and one with a $ 5000 limit then I have $ 6000 of available credit . This percentage is generally considered a very important factor to your credit score . For instance let 's say I have a $ 4000 balance on the $ 5000 card , and a $ 0 balance on the card with the $ 1000 limit . Thus my utilization is 66.67 % , if I close the card with the $ 0 balance , my utilization percentage will then jump to 80 % . This will decrease your score , as you are seen as higher risk . Hard Inquiries - This is how many times your credit report has been pulled due to requesting new credit . These will stay on your report for 2 years , with the highest impact occurring during the first year . Pulling your own credit score does not impact your score ; applying for a new credit card , loan , mortgage , etc. . . will . This is also generally considered a large part of your score . Percent of On-Time payments - This one is pretty explanatory . Do n't pay your bill late , and you wo n't have to worry about any negative impacts to your score . Average Age of Accounts - Take the number of accounts you have , and average up how old they are . While a smaller portion of your score , this is why you will come across all sorts of information about not closing your oldest account , as it will drive this number down . Total number of accounts - I 'm not very certain how this impacts your score . It seems the higher the number the better . I would bet there is some limit where going over would decrease the score , but I am not certain . The more accounts you have maintained a successful relationship helps the lender realize you are less risky . Collections Notices - These can be added by agencies , by having a lien on an account , bankruptcies , etc. . . These stay on your account for a number of years , and will have large effects on your score ( in a negative way ) . What 's worse , is paying them off or certain activities ( in certain cases ) can reset the clock on when they drop off your report .
In general , one should look at their allocation and adjust it on a regular basis , annual is a typical choice . Withdrawals are cash , of course , and after a year of withdrawals , you 'd look and see what needs to be done to re-balance . Keeping two accounts is fine , but you still have one portfolio . And depending how the stock account is invested , it will accumulate cash from the dividends . There 's no magic way to do this . And no magic mix , except , perhaps , for the mix that lets you sleep best at night . As you withdraw your cash , the stock % will increase a bit , as it will 2/3 of the time , when the market rises . In down years , your reallocation might be to purchase more stock . Note - littleadv asked an interesting point of clarification , worth addressing . Some people are confused regarding RMDs . Obviously , if you need spending money , you ca n't spend shares of Apple . But , to satisfy your RMD , you can withdraw shares ' in-kind ' which means taking the stock as an RMD . Say your IRA happens to have a mix of stocks and your RMD is $ 5000 . You can transfer 10 shares of Apple from the IRA to the non-retirement broker account , and once it clears , you 'll see the value it was transferred at . You then might have to take a few hundred dollars more to meet the exact RMD , or you might have gone a bit over . Now you 'll treat the RMD as income , and will need to pay tax out of your cash account .
I do n't know personally , but a few minutes spent on Google seem to indicate that such transactions are considered cash advances . I found a thread at fatwallet which states that <URL> . If you want to research it yourself , I used the following search terms : . You could probably narrow down the search results by using as the query .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
It depends of the specifics of the bond , but assuming that you are holding to maturity and the coupon payments are semi-annual , you want a YTM calculator such as the one at Prentice Hall <URL> . The major difference with a YTM calculation is that you are adding back the face value at maturity . The total return varies based on the purchase price , discount rate , face value , and the number of remaining payments . In a " real world " situation , you should also be aware that this equation does not account for any amount of default risk , so if you buy a bunch of junk , in reality you may get less .
It 's not entirely clear what you 're asking ... If you 're talking about an Excel Formula for getting both of those , then : = PV ( Rate , NPER , PMT , Future Value ) = PMT ( Rate , NPER , Present Value , Future Value ) For the lump sum investment , you would put the final value you need in as " present value " , and the Payment would = 0 . For the Monthly Investment ( with no up-front lump sum ) , you would put the monthly investment as the payment , and 0 for the Present Value . The Future Value is still the same . If you 're interested in doing the math , the formula for a Future Value of a Lump Sum is : The formula to calculate the monthly payments to achieve a Future Value is commonly called a " Sinking Fund Payment " : r = interest rate for the period , n = the number of periods . Make sure that the interest rate matches the investment 's compounding frequency . If you are calculating the value of an upfront investment and additional monthly investments , you have to do the calculations as two separate problems . You can do the algebra to reverse the lump sum formula around for Present Value fairly easily , or you can find the answer on Wikipedia . <URL> &amp; <URL>
This is just a guess but I would imagine that it has to do with risk . The deposits in Banks are usually as safe as government bonds ( broad oversimplification ) as : Usually bank deposits are insured by local equivalent of FDIC . I 'm not sure about local regulation but it means that they are backed partially by the government - at least this is the case in US and EU . If government is close to default it can and do freeze the Bank assets . For example see Cyprus bank tax in 2013 . The US government is considered the most trustworthy - even in unlikely event of being close to default it would be rescued by FED ( so it can just print the money ) . So the banks at the same time have very low competition regarding government bonds and the investments they can do have relatively low ROI so they can not offer much more competitive rates . On the other hand Ukrainian bonds have current rating Caa3/CCC - / CCC - i.e. the Goverment is judged to be likely to default ( as you pointed out there is war going on ) and in result the government bonds are considered highly speculative . Therefore to attract foreign investors they need to have high interest rating . Similarly the CDs at the banks can be considered at the risk of being lost so to prevent flight of capital overseas ( or people keeping USD in cash form at home ) they need to offer rates that reflect the risk .
end question
start question
How do you declare revenues from YouTube earnings in the USA if you are a minor ?
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
No to both . The deposit refund is not taxable , but in states where security must earn interest , that small amount is subject to tax . I just returned a $ 750 deposit to a tenant , and after a year , it accrued $ 0.24 . A rebate of fees you pay such as ATM fees is just you getting back your own money . As is " cash back " on credit card purchases . Not taxable .
If your emergency fund is used strictly in the event of a job loss , you may want to factor in your unemployment benefits . But note ! You will not necessarily receive unemployment benefits . In many countries , you are not eligible if you are fired . Additionally , I 've seen people laid off but denied benefits until they spent several months fighting the decision . So , it 's wisest not to count on unemployment benefits . Even if you do , note that they often take a while to kick in . Six to eight weeks in Canada , for example . It is also a good idea to consider what else could cause you to tap into your emergency fund . A death of a spouse or a parent may leave you with $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 in funeral expenses that you have to pay within two weeks , months before any life insurance would kick in . If you own a house , your furnace or hot water tank may fail and need immediate replacement . Generally , you 'd cover these from an emergency fund , though your specific case may be different . There 's obviously an opportunity cost to keeping too much in cash or cash-like investments in your emergency fund , so you 'll want to take that in to consideration as well . My personal opinion is that you should have at least 6 months of living expenses saved up , not counting on any unemployment benefits . You should also have enough to cover the other emergencies such as the ones I raised , though sometimes you can borrow from family for that sort of thing . Beyond 6 months , I 'm willing to factor in benefits , less-liquid investments , etc. .
Americans are snapping , like crazy . And not only Americans , I know a lot of people from out of country are snapping as well , similarly to your Australian friend . The market is crazy hot . I 'm not familiar with Cleveland , but I am familiar with Phoenix - the prices are up at least 20-30 % from what they were a couple of years ago , and the trend is not changing . However , these are not something " everyone " can buy . It is very hard to get these properties financed . I found it impossible ( as mentioned , I bought in Phoenix ) . That means you have to pay cash . Not everyone has tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash available for a real estate investment . For many Americans , 30-60K needed to buy a property in these markets is an amount they can not afford to invest , even if they have it at hand . Also , keep in mind that investing in rental property requires being able to support it - pay taxes and expenses even if it is not rented , pay to property managers , utility bills , gardeners and plumbers , insurance and property taxes - all these can amount to quite a lot . So its not just the initial investment . Many times " advertised " rents are not the actual rents paid . If he indeed has it rented at $ 900 - then its good . But if he was told " hey , buy it and you 'll be able to rent it out at $ 900 " - would n't count on that . I know many foreigners who fell in these traps . Do your market research and see what the costs are at these neighborhoods . Keep in mind , that these are distressed neighborhoods , with a lot of foreclosed houses and a lot of unemployment . It is likely that there are houses empty as people are moving out being out of job . It may be tough to find a renter , and the renters you find may not be able to pay the rent . But all that said - yes , those who can - are snapping .
I feel the same way too ! With two kids , I feel like I am spending what it would cost to run a small country just on clothes , shoes , jackets , replacing everything as it is grown out of ! A few things I do : I shop in affordable places and check out sales , and look for the cutest things I can find there in a reasonable price range . If you are n't browsing in the $ 60 baby dresses , you are n't tempted by them . I do n't go looking at $ 60 shirts for my son , he 's five and he does n't need a $ 60 shirt . I also really only shop for him two or three times a year for clothing ... back to school and early spring are the big ones . For fall I got him five pairs of jeans , maybe 8 tops , new socks , etc. . I 'll add in a couple of heavier sweatshirts , etc as I go , but I really do n't browse for him ... it 's too easy to find something to buy ! I look for inexpensive lines for the things that do n't really matter ... bright T 's for my son for summer that just get dirty and spilled on , sleepers , socks , pj 's , etc. . Joe Fresh , Walmart , Old Navy , Costco . Then I choose a few things that I know I want brand name or more stylish options for , and find ways to buy them more cheaply . These might be things like logo 'd fleece tops , trendy jackets , things where the style is actually noticed . I buy jeans at Old Navy for my son when they are on sale , I buy Gusti/Genevieve LaPierre snowsuits at Sears when they are 40 % off in Sept/Oct . The Childrens ' Place has good quality , stylish clothing for kids and if you watch , they always have deals on their jeans or tops ... then I stock up . And for younger kids , Old Navy and The Children 's Place jeans have adjustable waistbands . I 've already unrolled cuffs and let out the waist in my son 's back to school jeans . I have friends who are starting to take in bags of too-small clothing to consignment shops ... if they come away with $ 100 , it 's still $ 100 ! For preteen and teen kids who want certain brands , etc , I think it is very reasonable to say " we will pay x for each pair of jeans , or x for winter boots . If you want to throw in some babysitting/birthday money and go buy something more expensive , you are welcome to do so ! " That way , you are still paying for basics , but they can feel like they are n't stuck wearing things they do n't like . Tell them ... you can buy 5 tops at $ x each for back to school , or 10 tops at $ x. And lastly , and most sadly of all : buy less . . and stop shopping . There , I said it out loud . I try to be careful of what I buy , but I still find things I bought that were never worn . Now I keep a return basket in laundry/mudroom ... if I do n't love it , if it seems impractical now that I got it home , if I wanted it just in case item # 1 did n't work ... it goes in the basket . And I return them . I suck it up , I take it with me and go get my money back . Mistakes can be fixed if the items have n't been worn or washed .
FBAR is enforced by the IRS , and OVDP is administered by the IRS , and as part of the program your tax returns will be examined . So I 'd personally say that the answer is yes - treat it as part of the tax preparation fees . If you want to deduct tax preparation fees , you can do it as part of your itemized deductions , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold , so yes - you have to itemize . It is entered on <URL> .
If you ca n't find anyone to lend you the shares , then you ca n't short . You can attempt to raise the interest rate at which you will borrow at , in order to entice others to lend you their shares . In practice , broadcasting this information is pretty convoluted . If there are n't any stocks for you to buy back , then you have to buy back at a higher price . As in , place a limit buy order higher and higher until someone decides to sell to you . This affects your profit . Regarding the public ledger : This functions different in different markets . United States stock markets have an evolving body of regulations to alleviate the exact concerns you detailed , but Canada 's or Dubai 's stock markets would have different provisions . You make the assumption that it is an efficient process , but it is not and it is indeed ripe for abuse . In US stocks , the public ledger has a 3 business day delay between showing change of ownership . Many times brokers and clearing firms and other market participants allow a customer to go short with fake shares , with the idea that they will find real shares within the 3 business day time period to cover the position . During the time period that there is no real shares hitting the market , this is called a " naked short " . The only legal system that attempts to deter this practice is the " fail to deliver " ( FTD ) list . If someone fails to deliver , that means there is a short position active with fake shares for which no real shares have been borrowed against . Too many FTD 's allow for a short selling restriction to be placed , meaning nobody else can be short , and existing short sellers may be forced to cover .
Applying for credit , they want to know what your resources are as part of judging your creditworthiness . I 've never seen the question asked for checking accounts . Best guess I 've got is that this is pure marketing rather than anything related to the account application itself -- they want to know whether it 's worth trying to convince you to consolidate all your accounts into their bank .
It 's not so much about time but about intent . If your intent is to move there permanently , it would be when you arrive in the state for the purposes of living there ( i.e. not from a while before that when you went to check a place out or for an interview ) . I believe that most ( if not all ) states expect you to get a Driver 's License from that state within 30-days of moving there . Something like a Driver 's License or State ID would be proof of your residency . These things vary greatly from state to state , so you 'd have to research particular states . Or find someone who 's done that already . A bit of searching , specifically for Texas , brought me to this <URL> : If you / he wish to establish residency here -- here being Texas -- get a Texas Driver 's License and Voter Registration here . Government issued ID with a Texas address is pretty much bulletproof defense against being found to be a resident of elsewhere . Your battle , if there is one , will not be with Texas , but with your present home of record state and/or local government if there are income taxes associated with having been a resident there during the tax year . Which brings up the other question : You would need to make sure that California does not have some provision that would cause you issues . ( This is n't so much a case of income from a company in the state as it about capital gains , but it is still prudent to check . )
You need a budget . You need to know how much you make and how much you spend . How much you earn and what you choose to spend you money on is your choice . You have your own tolerance for risk and your own taste and style , so lifestyle and what you own is n't something that we can answer . The key to your budget is to really understand where you money goes . Maybe you are the sort of person who needs to know down to the penny , maybe you are a person who rounds off . Either way you should have some idea . <URL> and <URL> Once you know what you budget is , here are some pretty standard steps to get started . Each point is a full question in of itself , but these are to give you a place to start thinking and learning . Use your budget to spend less than you make . Use your budget to save for expensive things you want ( car , house , vacation , electronics ) Carry no consumer debt ( like credit cards ) Save up an emergency fund Save for your retirement Invest a little , spend a little just for fun . You might have other priorities like a charity or other organizations that go into your priority like . Regardless of your career path and salary , you will need a budget to understand where you money is , where it goes , and how you can reach your goals and which goals are reasonable to have .
I know in the UK at least , 99 % of the time even legitimate collectors do n't work directly for the charity . They work for independent for-profit companies . The companies collect a large comission ( around # 50 - # 70 ) for every direct debit signup . The guy that knocks on your door will see very little of it . Have a look at this : <URL> The bags you get through your door for clothing donations are run on a similar basis - the clothes and profit go to a private company , which makes a donation to the charity out of their profits . Sometimes as little as 0.1 % of your donation will go the charity . Always go direct to your chosen charity .
I value my home at slightly below ( say , less 8-10 % ) of comparable , recent sales in my neighborhood . I do this for a couple of reasons : I would n't expect to get the best price at any peak . Wishful thinking . And , Actually realizing any money from a sale would involve real estate commissions , moving fees , legal fees , etc. . I never guess . If I can not find a comparable sale , I leave the home value as-is until there is data .
I 've tried Mint , and I 've tried Quicken . Now , I think Quicken is an annoying , crashy little piece of software , but it is also quite capable ; overall I think it has the features you want . You can enter your bills , broken down by category , in advance . You can enter your paychecks , broken down by category ( gross income , federal income tax , state income tax , social security , SDI , transfers to tax-protected 401 ( k ) account , etc ) in advance . You can enter in your stock trades and it can tell you how much you 'll need to end up paying in capital gains taxes . You can even enter in your stock option vesting schedule in advance ( it 's a royal pain because you ca n't go back and change anything without deleting everything , but you can do it ) . It 'll forecast your bank account balance in all of your bank accounts in advance with a shiny chart . It 'll even model your loans , if you set it up right . I did n't do too much with the " budgeting " tools per se , but the account-balances-daily features sound like the closest thing to what you 're looking for that 's likely to exist . The only thing that 's a trifle tricky is that transfers from one account to another may take multiple days ( hello , ACH ) and you 'll have to decide whether to record them at departure or arrival .
( credits to Joe 's answer above which alluded to what I was not considering ) You are n't " bypassing " the tax liability if you invest in a home instead of , say , stocks . It 's true stocks would be subject to tax during the year you cash in on them while the proceeds of a home equity loan would not affect your tax liability . HOWEVER , by taking on a new loan , you are liable for repayments . Those repayments would be made using your income from other sources , which IS taxable . So you ca n't avoid tax liability when financing your child 's college education by using an equity line .
This is n't so much a legal issue , the prohibition on giving discounts was written into the merchant agreements that most of the major credit card companies enforced on businesses that accepted their credit cards . That is , until the recent Financial Reform Bill ( 2010 ) passed Congress . It changes everything . ( The logic on this is a little convoluted , so read carefully ) Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from requiring a minimum purchase amount to use a credit card . Meaning : That if merchants want to , they can now stop taking credit cards for a $ 4 latte . Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from giving discounts for cash . Here is an article with a lot more detail : <URL> Here is a link to the actual bill details and content : <URL> Here is the relevant part : This subsection is supposed to take affect " at the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 . " In other words , July 21st , 2011 .
The fact that the option is deep in the money will be reflected in the market price of the option so you can just sell it at a profit . If there 's a ( n almost ) guaranteed profit to be had , however , you can always find someone who will lend you the money to cover the exercise ... they 'll charge you interest , however !
Yes the company can still pay dividends even if they are n't making a profit . 1 ) If the firm has been around , it might have made profits in the past years , which it might be still carrying ( check for retained earnings in the financial statements ) . 2 ) Some firms in the past have had taken up debt to return the money to shareholders as dividends . 3 ) It might sell a part of it 's assets and return the gain as dividends . 4 ) They might be bought by some other firm , which returns cash to shareholders to keep them happy . It pays to keep an eye on the financial statements of the company to check how much liquid money they might be carrying around to pay shareholders as dividends . They can stop paying dividends whenever they want . Apple did n't pay a dividend while Steve Jobs was around , even though they were making billions in profits . Many companies do n't pay dividends because they find it more beneficial to continue investing in their business rather than returning money to shareholders .
It does make sense to combine debts and pay off the worst ( highest interest rate ) . However , if you ca n't get any loan , you should focus on the worst debt and pay that off . Then take the same amount of money you were paying to the next worse debt , and so on until you 're clean . Let 's look at an example . Debt A is at 5 % , Debt B is at 10 % and Debt C is at 15 % . You are paying AB and C. On a monthly basis , you save 100 $ to pay off C . Once C is payed off , you keep on saving 100 $ and add whatever you were paying to Debt C to those savings . This way , you can pay off Debt B at an increased rate . When B is cleared , you save 100 $ + whatever you were paying to Debt B and Debt C to clear Debt A. That 's the theory .
<URL> of what 's required to handle the reporting of tip income . To address this question specifically , here 's the relevant instructions from that post : If your allocated tips are less than what 's recorded in your daily log , and you reported your tips to your employer , then it is likely that something is wrong with your employer 's recordkeeping system . You can ask your employer to correct your W-2 . You should report the allocated tips on Form 4137 , plus any additional tips you show in your daily records .
end question
start question
High expense ratio funds - are they worth it ?
Over the past five years , QFVOX has returned 13.67 % , compared to the index fund SPY that has returned 50.39 % . SEVAX has lost 23.96 % . AKREX has returned 81.82 % . In two of your three examples , you would have done much better in an index fund with a very low expense ratio as suggested . While one can never , as you see , make a generalization , in almost every case , most investors will do better , and often much better , with an index fund with a low expense ratio . My source was Google Finance . <URL>
Every 401 ( k ) has managers to make the stock choices . They all have different rates . You want to see that fidelity or Vangard is handling your 401 ( k ) . ( and I am sure others ) If you have a mega bank managing your funds or an insurance company odds are you are paying way to high management fees . So find out , the management fees should be available should be less than 1 % . They can get as high as 2 % ... Ouch
We were members at costco , but decided not to renew . Meat was a definite cost savings , and laundry detergent as well . Diapers used to be a huge savings , but loblaws seems to be pricing things better now . We did by a bunch of Kirkland brand diapers and wipes before the membership ended . The problem we had was that you just get too much stuff - you save a bunch on that laundry detergent that you buy once every two years , or the chicken you have in your freezer forever . In Canada , the basic membership is $ 55 and we could not be certain we made that back , nor that we were n't over consuming as we walked the aisles . I have heard that the more expensive membership ( $ 100 ) which gives you 2 % back on purchases is a good way to gauge your usage and determine if it is worth it . It also costs nothing to give it a try - their policy is a full refund at any time , so in theory you could go in on your 364th day and get a refund .
In a cap-weighted fund , the fund itself is n't buying or selling at all ( except to support redemptions or purchases of the fund ) . As the value of a stock in the index goes up , then its value in the fund goes up naturally . This is the advantage of a cap-weighted fund , that it does n't have to trade ( buy and sell ) , it just sits on the stocks . That makes a cap-weighted fund inexpensive ( low trading costs ) and tax-efficient ( does n't trigger capital gains due to sales ) . The buying high and selling low referred to by " fundamental indexation " advocates like Wisdom Tree is buying high and selling low on the part of the investor . That is , when you purchase the market-cap-weighted fund , at that time that you purchase , you will spend more on the higher-priced stocks , just because they account for more of the value of the fund , and less money goes to the cheaper stocks which account for less of the value of the fund . In the prospectus for a fund they should tell you which index they use , and if the prospectus does n't describe the weighting of the index , you could do a web search for the index name and find out how that index is constructed . A market-cap-weighted fund is the standard kind of weighting which is what you get if you buy the stocks in the index and then hold them without buying or selling . Most of the famous indexes ( e.g. S&amp;P 500 ) are cap-weighted , with the notable exception of the Dow Jones Industrial Average which is " price-weighted " <URL> . Price-weighting is just an archaic tradition , not something one would use for a new index design today . A fund weighted by " fundamentals " or equal-weighted , rather than cap-weighted , is effectively doing a kind of rebalancing , selling what 's gone up to buy more of what 's gone down . Rather than buying an exotic fund , you could get a similar effect by buying a balanced fund ( one that mixes stocks and bonds ) . Then when stocks go up , your fund would sell them and buy bonds , and the fund would sell the most of the highest-market-cap stocks that make up more of the index . And vice versa of course . But the fundamental-weighted funds are fine , the more important considerations include your stocks vs. bonds percentages ( asset allocation ) and whether you make irrational trades instead of sticking to a plan .
<URL> has a likely scenario for when Greece defaults on its sovereign debt : What happens when Greece defaults . Here are a few things : Every bank in Greece will instantly go insolvent . The Greek government will nationalise every bank in Greece . The Greek government will forbid withdrawals from Greek banks . To prevent Greek depositors from rioting on the streets , Argentina-2002-style ( when the Argentinian president had to flee by helicopter from the roof of the presidential palace to evade a mob of such depositors ) , the Greek government will declare a curfew , perhaps even general martial law . Greece will redenominate all its debts into " New Drachmas " or whatever it calls the new currency ( this is a classic ploy of countries defaulting ) The New Drachma will devalue by some 30-70 per cent ( probably around 50 per cent , though perhaps more ) , effectively defaulting 0n 50 per cent or more of all Greek euro-denominated debts . As <URL> says , there 's more at the link , all depressing . I think you 're focusing too much on Greece leaving the euro and not enough on why Greece would leave the euro . Greece would leave the euro precisely so that it could pay back its debt in a new currency worth less than valuable euros . The new currency will devalue , since that 's the point of leaving . Along the way the government forces its citizens to take the new currency . The money they have in Greek banks will be converted to the new currency : The citizens do n't have a choice to keep their euros .
It 's a what-if ? sort of question . What if rates stay down or trend only slightly higher , despite no QE ? look at other countries response to tepid economies . My experience as professional advisor ( 25 yrs ) tells me the future is unknowable and diversity is good . Make alternative choices - they all wo n't work wonderfully , but some will .
The price to earnings ratio is a measure of the company 's current share price compared to the annual net earnings per share . The other way to think about this is the number of years a company would take to pay back the share price if the earnings stay constant . This ignores factors like inflation and can be used as an indicator of risk . During the internet bubble many companies had P/E above 24 and no possible means of earning back the share prices that were inflated largely due to speculation . Most tools like <URL> will list the P/E for a particular quote .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
Although you ca n't invest in an index , you can invest in a fund that basically invests in what the index is made up of . Example : In dealing with an auto index , you could find a fund that buys car companies 's stock . <URL> Although not pertaining to your quetion exactly , you may want to consider buying into <URL> I hope this answers your question .
A lot of whether or not using those types of cards is worth it depends on how you use your credit card . If you use your credit card very often and pay it off in full each month , then often these cards can be great for you . If you often leave a balance on the card then a card with a lower interest rate would be better to focus on . I personally would not use any points card that had any actual fees with it . They already typically have a below average interest rate as it is . For us , we very rarely use our credit card . For utilities we use e-checks and for most other things we use a cash budgeting system . As a result , for us the lower interest credit cards are more important since we rarely would gain any worthwhile amounts of points for use .
I think this is off topic , but here is a stab : So these are cashless . It could be a way to smooth out the harsh reality of capitalism ( I overproduced my product , I have more capacity than I can sell ) and I can trade those good to other capitalists who similarly poorly planned production or capacity . Therefore the market for a system like is limited to businesses that do not plan well . Business that plan production or capacity to levels they can already sell for cash do not need a private system to offload goods . Alternatives to such a system include : Laying off a workforce Slowing down production until inventory matches demand Selling or moving business space Offering products or services at a discount or coupon price . ( I do n't know how many businesses are really in this over production / over capacity state . If my assumption that it is n't many is wrong , my answer is garbage . ) This is a bartering system with a brokerage . I think we have historically found that common currencies create more trade and economic activity because the value of the note in your pocket , which is the same type of note in my pocket , is common and understood . Exchange rates typically slow down trade . ( There are many other reasons to have different currency or notes on a global sale , but the exchange certainly is a hurdle to clear . ) This brokerage is essentially adding a new currency ( in a grand metaphor ) . And that new currency is only spendable on their brokerage , which is of limited use to society as a whole , assuming that society as a whole is n't a participating member of that brokerage . I ca n't really think of why this type of exchange is better than the current system we have now . I would n't invest in this as a business , or invest in this as a person looking for opportunity .
Hope springs eternal in the human breast . No actively managed fund has beaten the indices over a long period of time , but over shorter periods , actively managed funds have beaten the indices quite often , sometimes quite spectacularly , and sometimes even for many years in a row . Examples from the past include Fidelity Magellan and Legg Mason Value Trust . So people buy actively managed funds hoping to cash in on such good performance . The difficulty is , of course , that many people do n't even think about investing in a fund until it is listed in some " Top Forty Funds of last year " compilation , and for many funds , they have already peaked , and new buyers are often disappointed . Some people who invested earlier plan on getting out of the fund before the fund falls flat on its face , and fewer even succeed in doing so . As to why 401k plans often have high-cost actively managed funds , there are several reasons . A most important one is that there are numerous companies that act as administrators of 401k programs and these companies put together package deals of 401k programs ( funds , administrative costs etc ) , and small employers perforce have to choose from one of these packages . Second , there are various rules that have come into existence since the first days of 401k ( and 403b ) programs such as the investment choices must include funds of different types , and actively managed funds ( large cap , small cap etc ) are one of the choices that must be offered . Gone are the days when the only choice was a variable annuity offered by the insurance company administering the 401k program . Finally , program participants also have hopes ( cf. opening sentence ) and used to demand that the 401k program offer a few actively managed funds , not just index funds .
After the initial public offering , the company can raise money by selling more stock ( equity financing ) or selling debt ( e.g. borrowing money ) . If a company 's stock price is high , they can raise money with equity financing on more favorable terms . When companies raise money with equity financing , they create new shares and dilute the existing shareholders , so the number of shares outstanding is not fixed . Companies can also return money to shareholders by buying their own equity , and this is called a <URL> . It 's best for companies to repurchase their shared when their stock price is low , but " <URL> " The management of a company typically likes a rising stock price , so their stock options are more valuable and they can justify bigger pay packages .
Since you did not treat the house as a QBU , you have to use USD as your functional currency . To calculate capital gains , you need to calculate the USD value at the time of purchase using the exchange rate at the time of purchase and the USD value at the time of sale using the exchange rate at the time of sale . The capital gain / loss is then the difference between the two . This link describes it in more detail and provides some references : <URL> That link also discusses additional potential complications if you have a mortgage on the house . This link gives more detail on the court case referenced in the above link : <URL> The court cases references Rev. Rul 54-105 . This link from the IRS has some details from that ( <URL> ) : Rev. Rul . 54-105 , 1954-1 C.B. 12 , states that for purposes of determining gain , the basis and selling price of property acquired by a U.S. citizen living in a foreign country should be expressed in United States dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing as of the dates of purchase and sale of the property , respectively . The text of this implies it is for U.S. citizen is living in a foreign country , but the court case makes it clear that it also applies in your scenario ( house purchased while living abroad but now residing in the US ) : Appellants agree that the 453,374 pounds received for their residence should be translated into U.S. dollars at the $ 1.82 exchange rate prevailing at the date of sale . They argue , however , that the 343,147 pound adjusted cost basis of the residence , consisting of the 297,500 pound purchase price and the 45,647 pounds paid for capital improvements , likewise should be expressed in U.S. dollar terms as of the date of the sale . Appellants correctly state that , viewed " in the foreign currency in which it was transacted , " the purchase generated a 110,227 pound gain as of the date of the sale , which translates to approximately $ 200,000 at the $ 1.82 per pound exchange rate . ... However fair and reasonable their argument may be , it amounts to an untenable attempt to convert their " functional currency " from the U.S. dollar to the pound sterling . ... Under I.R.C. § 985 ( b ) ( 1 ) , use of a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar is restricted to qualified business units ( " QBU " s ) . ... appellants correctly assert that their residence was purchased " for a pound-denominated value " while they were " living and working in a pound-denominated economy , " ... And since appellants concede that the purchase and sale of their residence was not carried out by a QBU , the district court properly rejected their plea to treat the pound as their functional currency .
You have n't mentioned how much debt your example company has . Rarely does a company not carry any kind of debt ( credit facilities , outstanding bonds or debentures , accounts payable , etc. ) Might it owe , for instance , $ 1B in outstanding loans or bonds ? Looking at debt too is critically important if you want to conduct the kind of analysis you 're talking about . Consider that the fundamental <URL> says : or , But in your example you 're assuming the assets and equity ought to be equal , discounting the possibility of debt . Debt changes everything . You need to look at the value of the net assets of the company ( i.e. subtracting the debt ) , not just the value of its assets alone . Shareholders are residual claimants on the assets of the company , i.e. after all debt claims have been satisfied . This means the government ( taxes owed ) , the bank ( loans to repay ) , and bondholders are due their payback before determining what is leftover for the shareholders .
Well , the answer for which ones you should consider modifying is easy . You ca n't drop liability insurance since it 's a legal requirement , so you can consider dropping collision , comprehensive , and/or uninsured motorist covnerage . The first thing to look at it whether your insurance company allows you to choose these independently . Some companies , for instance , wo n't allow you to get collision coverage without also getting comprehensive coverage . From what I saw , the nature of uninsured motorist insurance varies from state to state , so you should look at your policy to see what it covers compared to collision ( e.g. , whether it covers hit-and-run collisions ) . Whether you should actually drop any of these is harder to say , since it depends on your personal judgment of how likely various possibilities are , and how much you could afford to spend . Obviously the most expensive one is collision coverage , so that 's the one to look at most carefully . If you google for " when should you drop collision coverage " or the like you can find many pages discussing the issue . ( <URL> is one . ) I found a couple that suggest dropping collision coverage when your annual premium is more than 10 % of your vehicle 's value . From what you say , you 're quite a ways from that point . One thing you could do is begin saving money into an account earmarked for car repairs/replacement . As time passes , you will build up money in the account , and your car 's value will decrease . Once you have built up enough money in this account relative to your car 's value to feel comfortable , you could cancel collision coverage . ( You would n't necessarily need to build up as much as the whole value of the car , assuming you have an adequate general emergency fund . The idea would be that if your car was totaled , you could dip into your emergency fund , because that would be more of a " real " emergency . But if your car was damaged in an accident but still required a fairly expensive repair , you could use your car fund to pay for the repairs . ) Another option to look into is raising your deductible . You 'd have to look at what deductibles your insurance company allows . Depending on how much you want to reduce your premiums , you may be able to satisfy yourself by taking a higher deductible .
There is no easy way to know for sure . Apple does vet applications , but not for many privacy concerns . If someone spent the time to test such an application out on a wifi network , and sniff the network traffic , then it 's possible to detect if the application is calling in to some central server , but even that wo n't detect everything . It is possible to reverse engineer the software , but that 's an expensive and/or time consuming process , so it 's unlikely that someone would take the time to do that . This is an area where developers could use some help . If a third party company vetted their software source code ( such as Verisign ) , then they might be able to extend assurances to their users . Until then , caveat emptor .
The FDIC is pretty confident about them being legit . <URL> ( type in Bank Of The Sierra in the name field and search on that ) You got to realize how much money they will make if you use them per the agreement . Every credit card / debit transaction gets them some cash . <URL> even on debit cards . Then there is a flat fee the merchant pays for accepting the credit card between .25 and .50 per transaction . Even at 12 transactions a month , the bank is looking at making around $ 6/month . Probably more because who uses a debit card just 12 times a month . It would be convenient for most people to juse use it all the time . Does 4.09 % APY beat $ 6/month ? You would have to keep a balance of <URL> to cost more than you earn . And if you keep more than $ 2k in the account , they have other ways to make money off of you . I would also assume they make money on the bill pay and direct deposit side of things , but I ca n't speak for certain about that . Bottom line is this seems like a good deal to attract customers , they would rather make a bit less profit then BofA to grow their business . They are betting their offer restrictions will change your habits and make you more profitable to them .
Another factor to consider , beyond the fact that growth and volatility go together , is that the times when many people will need to liquidate their investments will correlate with the times that many other people need to liquidate their investments , and such correlation will push down the immediate value of those investments . While certificates of deposit have penalties for early withdrawal , one can establish up front what the worst-case penalty would be for cashing it in at the most inopportune time . By contrast , stocks offer no such assurance . Stocks sometimes have weird downward spikes that may be short-lived , but if life circumstances force one to liquidate stocks during such a downward spike the " penalty " can be much larger than on a CD .
As a longtime hoarder of frequent flier miles and owner of one such card , I am increasingly thinking they are NOT worth it . I 've started to shift over to a card that does cash-back into my investment account . My reasoning : The airlines are still scrapping for ways to stay profitable . Tweaking FF mile programs is an easy way for them to pull back benefits in non-obvious ways . For example over the last few years I 've seen airlines erode the value of FF miles in the following ways . Increase the number of miles you need for free tickets . Add fees and surcharges to redeem FF miles . Reduce the number of available seats for FF award tickets ( You did know that just because there is a flight and you have the miles , you are n't guaranteed to be able to get a FF ticket , right ? ) It just makes sense to go with a program that gives you cash back . They ca n't monkey with the value of x % of your purchases without it being obvious , and the flexibility of money makes it much more valuable than FF miles . That is , you can buy a ticket with your awards cash on any airline , or spend it on something completely different . Plus you can get interest on cash in a bank account , but not for FF miles in your account . Counterpoint : If you fly a lot , the perks like VIP lounges , free upgrades , priority boarding , etc. may make it worth it . However , most of these perks have some caveat that you earn them through FLYING and not random credit card purchases . So you can probably get these just in the course of flying anyway . Also , even though I still feel ripped off . It is pretty much insanely expensive to pay for an upgrade on a transatlantic flight . Miles are pretty much the only way to make it only slightly overpriced . One other thing : Paying an annual fee ( which many of these cards carry ) really makes these cards not worth it unless you are charging a ton of stuff on them and redeeming the rewards . Keep that in mind .
end question
start question
Stock spread : wide vs. narrow ?
The point is that the bid and ask prices dictate what you can buy and sell at ( at market , at least ) , and the difference between the two , or spread , contributes implicitly to your gains or losses . For example , say your $ 1 stock actually had a bid of $ 0.90 and an ask of $ 1.10 ; i.e. say that $ 1 was the last price . You would have to buy the stock at the ask price of $ 1.10 , but now you can only sell that stock at the bid price of $ 0.90 . Thus , you would need to make at least that $ 0.20 spread before you can make a profit .
For the same reason you wanted it when you bought it . No-one guarantees that you 'll be able to sell the stock you hold , and in fact many people get stuck with stocks they 'd like to sell , but no-one is buying . But if investors think there 's a profit potential that is not exhausted yet - they 'll want to buy the stock .
Though I do think it is important to have a diversified portfolio for your retirement , I also think it 's more important to make sure you are at no point touching this money until you retire . Taking money out of your retirement early is a sure fire way to get in a bad habit of spending this money when you need a little help . Here 's a tip : If you consider this money gone , you will find another way to figure out your situation . With that said , I also would rather not put a percentage on this . Start by building your emergency fund . You 'll want to treat this like a bill and make a monthly payment to your savings account each month or paycheck . When you have a good nine times your monthly income in here , stop contributing to this fund . Instead start putting the same amount into your IRA instead . At this point you should no longer have to add to your emergency fund unless there is a true emergency and you are replacing that money . Keep in mind that the amount of money in your emergency fund changes significantly in each situation . Sit down with your bills and think about how much money you would need in the event you lost your job . How long would you be out of work ? How many bills do you have each month that would need to be covered ?
Market-makers ( which you term dealers ) earn the bid-ask spread by buying and selling in as short a window as possible , hopefully before the prices have moved too much . It is not riskless . The spread is actually compensation for this risk . From <URL> : The market-maker faces two types of problem . One is an inventory-management problem -- how much stock to hold and at what price to buy and sell . The market-maker earns a bid-ask spread in return for solving this problem since they bear the risk that their inventory loses value . Market-makers face a second , information-management problem . This arises from the possibility of trading with someone better informed about true prices than themselves -- an adverse selection risk . Again , the market-maker earns a bid-ask spread to protect against this informational risk . The bid-ask spread , then , is the market-makers ' insurance premium . It provides protection against risks from a depreciating or mis-priced inventory . As such , it also proxies the " liquidity " of the market -- that is , its ability to absorb buy and sell orders and execute them without an impact on price . A wider bid-ask spread implies greater risk in the sense of the market 's ability to absorb volume without affecting prices . The less liquid an asset is , the more time is likely to pass ( and hence more information likely to arrive ) until someone comes along to take the inventory from the dealer , and the greater is the risk that the price will have changed in the mean time . Since spread is compensation for this risk , ceteris paribus spreads are wider for less liquid assets .
There 's a different reason to have more than one credit card . ( If you have three , that 's probably enough . ) Someone can get access to your account number , and start making fraudulent charges . When you report this to the issuer , they cancel your account to prevent further charges . They send you a new one , but there 's a delay . This happened to not one , but two of our credit cards at the same time . Thank goodness we had a third one that we could use in the meantime . If we had had just one card to use , we 'd be cash only until the new cards arrived , which would have been a big inconvenience because we were used to using our card for everything . ( It was inconvenience enough tracking down all of the automatic bill payments we had on the cards that were compromised . )
From <URL> , A stock split is usually done by companies that have seen their share price increase to levels that are either too high or are beyond the price levels of similar companies in their sector . The primary motive is to make shares seem more affordable to small investors even though the underlying value of the company has not changed . From <URL> , It is often claimed that stock splits , in and of themselves , lead to higher stock prices ; research , however , does not bear this out . What is true is that stock splits are usually initiated after a large run up in share price ... stock splits do increase the liquidity of a stock ; there are more buyers and sellers for 10 shares at $ 10 than 1 share at $ 100 . Some companies have the opposite strategy : by refusing to split the stock and keeping the price high , they reduce trading volume . Berkshire Hathaway is a notable example of this . Something more to munch on , <URL> .
This is going to vary tremendously from country to country ( and even from state to state , in some cases ) . In general , though : Sole proprietorship : Easy to form : requires little , or limited , paperwork and you 'll register directly as a taxpayer ; Difficult to sell : it is much harder to sell a sole proprietorship ( or manage successsion planning , inheritence , that sort of thing ) - you end up selling your assets but can not sell the legal structure ( since contracts and legal responsibilities will be in the owner 's name ) ; Taxable deductions limited : because your salary and the business ' profits are the same , you 'll find it difficult to keep savings in reserve for capital growth as you 'll be paying taxes at a higher rate . LLC : Administrative overhead : depending on local laws , even a small company may be required to submit to a statutory annual audit or financial review , you 'll also find this obligates you to keeping financial records ( this is not , necessarily , a bad thing ) ; Separation of interests : it 's always a good idea to have a separate bank account and structure for a business , an LLC imposes this on the owner - and , yes , this does mean that the LLC can own both fixed and moveable property ( like a car ) ; Financial planning : an LLC allows you to pay yourself a proper salary as well as to save additional profits for capital growth ; this should result in a lower overall cost of taxation as you can also pay yourself dividends from the unallocated profits ; Easy succession planning : selling an LLC is as simple as setting a price and changing the share-ownership ; the new owner buys existing contractual and legal rights by virtue of owning the company . There are a lot of permutations depending on local law . One thing that is n't actually much of an advantage is the " limited liability " component of the LLC . Simply put : for a really small company the majority shareholders are usually going to be " forced " to stand surety for the company in their personal capacity . Limited liability only becomes available once the company has quite a lot of cash/assets ( or the illusion of a lot of cash/assets ) . Update - noticed two further questions that appear very similar : <URL> <URL> Should all of these be merged ?
Disadvantages : People who run the site have access to your SS # , income , birth date , etc. . Site could be compromised , along with your personal information Your information is being sent over Internet lines ( although it will be encrypted , making it safer than mailing your taxes , IMO ) . Advantages : Can potentially store and remember information from last year 's return - speeding things up . E-filed returns are processed faster Lots of good free sites ( e.g. , Taxact.com ) In my opinion , the convenience and price ( free ! ) of online options make doing your taxes online worth the negligible risks .
Currently , when " implied volatility " is spoken , the <URL> is implied . This model has been shown to be deficient , thus the <URL> should be used . However , as nearly no one uses VG , it can be assumed that BS is still being implied . The BS formula has <URL> . Some are external to the underlying in question . The rest are internal . When all but one variable is known or assumed , the last variable can be calculated , so if one has the price of the underlying and all else except the volatility , the volatility can be calculated thus implied . If one selects an implied volatility , and all variables except the underlying price is known , the underlying price can be calculated . For the present , one uses the current price of the underlying to calculate the implied volatility . For future option prices , one assumes an implied volatility at a later date to calculate a possible price . For prices not at the money , the BS model is extremely imprecise . The VG model can better determine a potential future price .
<URL> can be screened by <URL> which is an index of correlation . Finviz covers all major North American exchanges and some others .
A trailing stop will sell X shares at some percentage below the current market price . Putting in this order with a 10 % trailing stop when the stock price is $ 50 will sell the stock when it hits $ 45 . It 's a market order at that point ( see below ) . A stop order will sell the stock when it reaches a certain price . The stop order becomes a market order when the magic price is hit . This means that you may not sell it at or below your price when the order is executed . But the stock will sell faster because the trader must execute . A stop limit order is the same as a stop order , except the stock wo n't be sold if it ca n't be gotten for the price . As a result , the sell may not be executed . More information <URL> .
Brokerages are supposed to keep your money separate from theirs . So , even if they fail as a company , your money and investments are still there , and can be transferred to another brokerage . It does n't matter if it 's an IRA or taxable account . Of course , as is the case with MF Global , if illegally take their client 's money ( i.e. , steal ) , it may be a different story . In such cases , SIPC covers up to $ 500K , of which $ 250K can be cash , as JoeTaxpayer said . You may be interested in the following news item from the SEC . It 's about some proposed changes , but to frame the proposal they lay out the way it is now : <URL> The most relevant quote : The Customer Protection Rule ( Rule 15c3-3 ) . This SEC rule requires a broker-dealer to segregate customer securities and cash from the firm 's proprietary business activities . If the broker-dealer fails , these customer assets should be readily available to be returned to customers .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
There are three main ways of appraising a property. : Comparable sales . - Great for non-investment homes . Not so good for properties that do n't sell very often - like church buildings . Income value - how much rental income can be generated by the property , and what is that stream of money worth . Cost to rebuild - There are two key parts to the cost to rebuild . What would it take rebuild a similar structure , and how should depreciation be handled . The 300K figure is the cost to rebuild if the house is destroyed . It does n't consider the cost of the land , because that is rarely destroyed . But the Cost Approach ( If Developed ) deducts from the rebuild cost the depreciation . If the house is not new that can be significant . This is not the same as the depreciation calculation used by the IRS , it says that as the house gets older it is not worth as much . This figure can not be used by the fire insurance company . It also does n't take into account the historic nature . By the depreciation calculation <URL> would be worthless . More details can be found <URL>
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Pro 401K : - Your employer will often match some % of your contributions - You can contribute almost 4x as much per year to a 401k compared to an IRA . * - Contributions comes out of your paycheck before you see it , so you are more likely to fund it even if you are n't a disciplined saver . - Although I do n't advise it , you can borrow from your 401k for certain types of expenses . Not true with an IRA . * Unless you happen to be considered an HCE ( Highly Compensated Employee ) then it gets tricky . PRO IRA ( Traditional ) : - 401K accounts tend to have much higher fees baked into the investments . - You can contribute money from any source up to the limit , 401k has to come out of your paycheck . - With an IRA your investment options are much more expansive than the short list of funds the company usually provided in a 401K plan . PRO ROTH ( Both IRA/401K ) : - You pay the taxes now on the money you invest , and not on the much higher principal ( and likely higher tax rate when you withdraw it )
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
Owning physical gold ( assuming coins ) : somewhat heavy risk of theft have to take it to a dealer to buy or sell there may be some spread over the market value of the gold , to cover the dealer 's expenses you can only really buy or sell in increments of " one coin " small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the dealer the actual ownership is free ( unless you need to pay for anti-theft insurance , a safe , etc ) Owning gold through a fund : more liquid and convenient ( it 's probably easy to buy and sell from a brokerage than to walk yourself down to a dealer ) ownership may qualify you for brokerage minimums of some sort or another you 're pretty much getting the exact same price for gold as all the hedge funds you can only really buy and sell in increments of " one share " the actual ownership is not free ( fund expenses ) small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the fund sponsor in times of extreme political chaos ( revolutions , etc ) there 's an elevated risk you wo n't actually be able to get a hold of it afterward there 's some international element to this depending on where the gold is actually held , so if it 's being held in ( say ) London and you 're in a politically-unstable third-world country or something it might be a better hedge against asset seizures than the physical thing
The point is that the bid and ask prices dictate what you can buy and sell at ( at market , at least ) , and the difference between the two , or spread , contributes implicitly to your gains or losses . For example , say your $ 1 stock actually had a bid of $ 0.90 and an ask of $ 1.10 ; i.e. say that $ 1 was the last price . You would have to buy the stock at the ask price of $ 1.10 , but now you can only sell that stock at the bid price of $ 0.90 . Thus , you would need to make at least that $ 0.20 spread before you can make a profit .
I just opened my Quicken 2009 to see exactly what you 're talking about . This may be slightly different from 2008 , but in 2009 there are three numbers at the bottom of the register : Online Balance , Current Balance and Ending Balance . Online Balance is the number downloaded from my bank . That 's what 's in my checking account right now , but I know that I 've written the rent check and it has n't yet been taken out of my account . Current Balance goes by the transactions I 've entered , in addition to the information downloaded from my bank . So , that number has taken into consideration that I 've got a few checks hanging out there . ( Of course , that only works if you tell Quicken that you 've written those checks . ) Ending Balance takes into consideration info downloaded from my bank , checks and transactions I 've told Quicken about that have taken place already , and upcoming transactions , like my student loan payment that will be automatically deducted from my account tomorrow . You can tell Quicken how far in advance you want these factored in for each bill . For paychecks , I have it set to automatically enter into my register 2 days in advance . For automatic payments , I set it to enter in my register a week in advance . Now , unless you have more than $ 2000 in checks hanging out there , it 's unlikely that your Ending Balance is correct . But if you have any checks that have n't been processed yet , or you know about upcoming transactions , you really ca n't run out and spend the $ 3K that your Online Balance claims you have . ( Not that you were planning to do that anyway . ) Bottom line , you need to reconcile your account . Duplicate entries could explain the discrepancy , and should be deleted . In the future , if you 're downloading transactions from two places , make sure you match them to avoid duplicates . Sorry this was wordy , but hopefully it helps ! Good luck !
end question
start question
Should monthly return or annualized be used ?
If I have an average monthly return on capital of 5 % If you have monthly data , then it might be better not to use your average return at all , but your compounded return based on those months . The average , being an average , will be pulled up in good months , so you may have one good month which brings the whole average up . As an example , if you have three months of data with returns of 5 % , 1 % , and -3 % , your average return is 1 % . But the compounded return is 0.95 % . 0.95 % is a clearer indicator of how well the investments performed . is it more common to use that number for performance or use the annualized value More commonly I have seen the annualized number , because that is how things are typically reported -- you do n't speak of quarterly returns when measuring the total value of an investment . But even then , you would compound it -- it would not be a straight multiple . Continuing the above example , the compounded annual return would be 11.98 % , vs. the average monthly return multiplied by 12 , which yields 12.00 % . In this example , a 0.02 % variance is n't a lot , but if you have large numbers offsetting your average , it can be a material difference .
The usual advice is that an emergency fund should aim to cover something in the region of 3 to 6 months living expenses . The exact amount is obviously a judgement for you to make based on your own circumstances . Once you have a comfortable safety net there is little point in padding it further unless your circumstances change significantly , and you would probably be better off diverting your savings into longer term ( and hopefully better performing ) investments .
If you are comfortable with the risk etc , then the main thing to worry about is diversity . For some folks , picking stocks is beyond them , or they have no interest in it . But if it 's working for you , and you want to keep doing it , more power to you . If you are comfortable with the risk , you could just as well have ALL your equity position in individual stocks . I would offer only two pieces of advice in that respect . 1 ) no more than 4 % of your total in any one stock . That 's a good way to force diversity ( provided the stocks are not clustered in a very few sectors like say ' financials ' ) , and make yourself take some of the ' winnings off the table ' if a stock has done well for you . 2 ) Pay Strong attention to Taxes ! You ca n't predict most things , but you CAN predict what you 'll have to pay in taxes , it 's one of the few known quantities . Be smart and trade so you pay as little in taxes as possible 2A ) If you live someplace where taxes on Long term gains are lower than short term ( like the USA ) then try really really hard to hold ' winners ' till they are long term . Even if the price falls a little , you might be up in the net compared to paying out an extra 10 % or more in taxes on your gains . Obviously there 's a balancing act there between when you feel something is ' done ' and the time till it 's long term . . but if you 've held something for 11 months , or 11 months and 2 weeks , odds are you 'd be better off to hold till the one year point and then sell it . 2B ) Capture Losses when you have them by selling and buying a similar stock for a month or something . ( beware the wash sale rule ) to use to offset gains .
There is no absolute answer to this as it depends on your particular situation , but some tips : Invest as much as you can for retirement . In your first job you may be on the low end of the pay scale , but you have something much more valuable ... Time . Do n't underestimate how much impact compounding can do to your retirement savings by putting the bulk of it in a decade sooner . As to investing versus saving , you need to do some of both : First accumulate 3-6 months of living expenses in a savings account and do n't touch it unless you have a bona-fide emergency ( like losing your job or major medical expenses ) Next , Contribute at least as much to your 401k as your company will match , any less and you are turning away free money . Next , Pay down debt as quickly as possible on credit cards and depreciating assets ( like cars ) . Max out the 401k and/or other tax sheltered retirement accounts as much as possible . You may be at the low end of the pay scale now , but believe it or not you probably have more disposable income than you ever will later when kids/family get into the picture . Also you have TIME on your side and money invested over time is a very powerful tool to get rich . Do not wait until you " make enough " to save for retirement . Save whatever you can now . Be careful about stockpiling too much in bank accounts . Inflation will eat that money up over time to the tune of 3-4 % / year . You are young and have a longer investment horizon for retirement , take advantage of that and accept a little more risk while you can .
Here are a handful of measures I take myself : I check my credit reports once in a while and look for anything out of the ordinary . If somebody calls me on the telephone claiming to be from my bank or credit card company , utility , etc. . I ask for their number , check it , and call them back . I do n't give personal information to people merely claiming to be from a place I do business with . I never fill out ballots for free contests . Most of the time these are scams . When I get a call telling me " you won a free cruise " for a ballot I supposedly filled out at the mall , I say they 're lying through their teeth . For excitement , I 'll sometimes buy a lotto ticket instead . I 'm careful when I surf the web . I do n't give my personal information to web sites I ca n't trust . If they look the least bit shady , I 'm out . Also , I use different passwords at different web sites . I avoid using a password from a public terminal , but when I must , I change my password soon after . I 'm careful when I download software . I do n't install anything I did n't get from a trusted source . I pay for software when necessary , so finding a trusted source is not hard . But , I 've heard of people who -- to save a buck -- would download a pirated application from a shady warez site only to be " gifted " a trojan horse key logging or other spyware along with it . When I no longer need a bill , receipt , statement , etc. or any document containing personal information , I shred it , and <URL> , not just a strip - or cross-cut . The micro-cut remains go in the <URL> with wet and yucky organic waste . When I no longer need a hard drive , I use a secure wiping tool like <URL> before reusing . If the drive is n't worth reusing , I 'll wipe first then take apart with my <URL> screwdriver . Once I have the drive platter , I scratch the heck out of it . Remains go to the community recycling depot . That 's all I can think of right now ; I probably missed a few :-) So , what do others do ? I 'm curious , too .
For this scheme to work , you would require an investment with no chance of a loss . Money market accounts and short-term t-bills are about your only options . The other thing is that you will need to be very careful to never miss the payment date . One month 's late charges will probably wipe out a few months ' profit . The only other caveat , which I 'm sure you 've considered , is that having your credit maxed out will hurt your credit score .
Most points cards will let you redeem the points for cash or a statement credit . Figure out how many points equals a $ 1 redemption . This will give you a base " points to dollars " conversation rate . ( It also tells you the effective cash back rate of your card . ) Now look at the merchandise you can buy with the points . Find a few things you are interested in . Find the retail value of that merchandise on Amazon.com . Use your points-to-dollars ratio to find the effective price of redeeming the item . See if it is " cheaper " to buy with points or to buy from Amazon . You can do a similar price comparison for non-merchandise items ( airline tickets , hotels , etc ) . Just compare it to the base points-to-dollars ratio . Look at the redemption rate of gift cards too . There are often deals where you can buy a $ 50 gift card for effectively $ 45 . If you ca n't find a good use for the points , then just redeem them for cash . You should also pay attention to the effective cash back rate . If it is consistently less than a regular cash back card , perhaps you should consider switching .
I think it 's safe to say that Apple can not grow in value in the next 20 years as fast as it did in the prior 20 . It rose 100 fold to a current 730B valuation . 73 trillion dollars is nearly <URL> in the world . Unfortunately , for every Apple , there are dozens of small companies that do n't survive . Long term it appears the smaller cap stocks should beat large ones over the very long term if only for the fact that large companies ca n't maintain that level of growth indefinitely . A non-tech example - Coke has a 174B market cap with 46B in annual sales . A small beverage company can have $ 10M in sales , and grow those sales 20-25 % / year for 2 decades before hitting even $ 1B in sales . When you have zero percent of the pie , it 's possible to grow your business at a fast pace those first years .
There are several factors here . Firstly , there 's opportunity cost , i.e. what you would get with the money elsewhere . If you have higher interest opportunities ( investing , paying down debt ) elsewhere , you could be paying that down instead . There 's also domino effects : by reducing your liquid savings to or below the minimum , you ca n't move any of it into tax advantaged retirement accounts earning higher interest . Then there 's the insurance costs . You are required to buy extra insurance to protect your lender . You should factor in the extra insurance you would buy vs the insurance required . Given that you can buy the car yourself , catastrophic insurance may not be necessary , or you may prefer a higher deductible than your lender will allow . If you 're not sufficiently capitalized , you may need gap insurance to cover when your car depreciates faster than your loan is paid down . A 30 percent payment should be enough to not need it though . Finally , there 's some value in having options . If you have the loan and the cash , you can likely pay it off without penalty . But it will be harder to get the loan if you do n't finance it . Maybe you can take out a loan against the car later , but I have n't looked into the fees that might incur . If it 's any help , I 'm in the last stretch of a 3 year car loan . At the time paying in cash was n't an option , and having done it I recognize that it 's more complicated than it seems .
They are a business . You 're not a corporation . They paid you more than $ 600 during the year , so they 're supposed to send 1099 to you and the IRS about it . They need your taxpayer certification ( W9 ) for that . They were supposed to ask for it before they paid you , but yes - they 're supposed to ask for it .
What is Amortization ? An amortization schedule is often used to produce identical payments for the term ( repayment period ) of a loan , resulting in the principal being paid off and the debt retired at the end of the loan . This is in contrast to an interest only , or balloon loan . These loans require little or no payment against the balance of the loan , requiring the loan to be paid indefinitely if there is no term , or requiring the loan to be entirely paid off from cash or a new loan at the end of the term . A basic amortization formula can be derived from the compound interest formula : <URL> . The basics of the formula are the periodic payment amount , A ( your monthly payment ) , can be determined by the principal loan , P , the rate , r , and the number of payments , n. Why Amortize ? Lenders lend money to make a profit on the interest . They 'd like to get back all the money they lent out . Amortization schedules are popular because the fixed low payments make it easier for borrowers to pay the loan off eventually . They also tend to be very profitable for lenders , especially at the start of the term , because they make a lot of profit on interest , just like the start of your mortgage . The principal of a mortgage has more meaning than the principal of a revolving debt credit card . The mortgage principal is fixed at the start , and represents the value of the collateral property that is your home . You could consider the amount of principal paid to be the percentage of your home that you actually own ( as part of your net worth calculation ) . Credit Card Amortization A credit card has a new balance each month depending on how much you charge and how much you pay off . Principal has less meaning in this case , because there is no collateral to compare against , and the balance will change monthly . In this case , the meaning of the amortization schedule on your credit card is how long it will take you to pay off the balance if you stop charging and pay at the proscribed payment level over the term described . Given the high interest rate on credit cards , you may end up paying twice as much for goods in the long run if you follow your lenders schedule . Who Amortizes ? Amortizing loans are common for consumer loans , unless a borrower is seeking out the lowest possible monthly payment . Lenders recognize that people will eventually die , and want to be paid off before that happens . Balloon and interest only bonds and loans are more commonly issued by businesses and governments who are ( hopefully ) investing in capital improvements that will pay off in the long run . Thousands of people and businesses have gone bankrupt in this financial crisis because their interest only loans reached term , and no one was willing to lend them money anymore to replace their existing loan .
For a two year time frame , a good insured savings account or a low-cost short-term government bond fund is most likely the way I would go . Depending on the specific amount , it may also be reasonable to look into directly buying government bonds . The reason for this is simply that in such a short time period , the stock market can be extremely volatile . Imagine if you had gone all in with the money on the stock market in , say , 2007 , intending to withdraw the money after two years . Take a broad stock market index of your choice and see how much you 'd have got back , and consider if you 'd have felt comfortable sticking to your plan for the duration . Since you would likely be focused more on preservation of capital than returns during such a relatively short period , the risk of the stock market making a major ( or even relatively minor ) downturn in the interim would ( should ) be a bigger consideration than the possibility of a higher return . The " return of capital , not return on capital " rule . If the stock market falls by 10 % , it must go up by 11 % to break even . If it falls by 25 % , it must go up by 33 % to break even . If you are looking at a slightly longer time period , such as the example five years , then you might want to add some stocks to the mix for the possibility of a higher return . Still , however , since you have a specific goal in mind that is still reasonably close in time , I would likely keep a large fraction of the money in interest-bearing holdings ( bank account , bonds , bond funds ) rather than in the stock market . A good compromise may be medium-to-high-yield corporate bonds . It should n't be too difficult to find such bond funds that can return a few percentage points above risk-free interest , if you can live with the price volatility . Over time and as you get closer to actually needing the money , shift the holdings to lower-risk holdings to secure the capital amount . Yes , short-term government bonds tend to have dismal returns , particularly currently . ( It 's pretty much either that , or the country is just about bankrupt already , which means that the risk of default is quite high which is reflected in the interest premiums demanded by investors . ) But the risk in most countries ' short-term government bonds is also very much limited . And generally , when you are looking at using the money for a specific purpose within a defined ( and relatively short ) time frame , you want to reduce risk , even if that comes with the price tag of a slightly lower return . And , as always , never put all your eggs in one basket . A combination of government bonds from various countries may be appropriate , just as you should diversify between different stocks in a well-balanced portfolio . Make sure to check the limits on how much money is insured in a single account , for a single individual , in a single institution and for a household - you do n't want to chase high interest bank accounts only to be burned by something like that if the institution goes bankrupt . Generally , the sooner you expect to need the money , the less risk you should take , even if that means a lower return on capital . And the risk progression ( ignoring currency effects , which affects all of these equally ) is roughly short-term government bonds , long-term government bonds or regular corporate bonds , high-yield corporate bonds , stock market large cap , stock market mid and low cap . Yes , there are exceptions , but that 's a resonable rule of thumb .
Emergency fund first . Period . The interest you pay on the HELOC until you have the emergency savings fund is like buying insurance . It 's an expense you incur until you can afford to bear the risk yourself ( here the risk is of a personal liquidity crisis ) . When you have enough in your emergency fund to be comfortable , start using whatever amount you were putting into savings to pay down the HELOC . Alex B is right that paying off the HELOC is a guaranteed return , but your emergency fund is not an investment -- it 's your safety net .
My experience is with Carnival Cruise lines . It may be different on other lines . The two biggest things that will run up your tab are drinks and shore excursions . Drinks : Expect to pay $ 2 - $ 4 for a beer or coke , and $ 7 - $ 12 for a mixed drink . You can often buy a " Fountain card " or something like that that is a fixed price for sodas throughout the cruise . Probably a good deal if you are a big soda drinker or are with kids . You get juice , iced tea and water at no charge . Oh yeah , and they add an automatic tip on every drink . I 'm sure you could ask them to take the tip off , but you 'd look like a tool for doing it considering the ( mostly ) Phillipinos who serve you drinks are probably working 16 hour days for peanuts . Shore Excursions : These can really add up . You could easily double the price of your cruise if you do a lot of the higher end ones . You can usually save a ton of money by not booking them through the cruise ship and just pre-arranging them through the internet or booking them at the kiosks that are inevitably right next to the dock at each port . The cruise director will tell you all sorts of scary stories to dissuade you from doing this , but it is mostly bunk . Often the cruise ship goes through the exact same tour companies and they add as much as a 2-3x markup . The Fancy Dining option : There is usually a high-end restaurant that you need reservations for and charges a $ 25 - $ 30/person . I never bother with them . The regular dining options are good enough for me . But if you are a surf &amp; turf aficionado you might want to budget for that . Internet is super expensive , around 70 cents a minute if I recall . You can buy bulk minutes , but it is n't that much cheaper . You are better off just bringing a laptop or smartphone and using them in ports . I had no trouble finding free wifi at most ports . Cell Phone : Danger Will Robinson ! Your cell phone will work on-board , but be prepared for a huge bill when you get back . I STRONGLY suggest turning off your phone on board or at least disabling the ability to receive calls and text messages . You can passively run up a bill that way . Tips : This is one thing I like about cruises . They just add about $ 10/day/person to your bill for tips and there is an option at the end of the cruise to add to that tip for the room steward , maitre 'd , etc. . There is absolutely no pressure at all to add to that tip , i.e. there is no one standing with their palm out . I never minded tipping for service , I always just hated having to carry cash around to do it . They make this process very easy on board . You really do n't need to have cash on board at all . Bottom Line : I tend to buy at least a few drinks/day and find my own shore excursions . With a few souvenirs thrown in here and there I typically spend about 50 % of the cruise price in extras per person .
As AskAboutGadgets notes , there 's no lower age limit . You current age ( 24 ) is a pretty good one ; you 'll have four decades or so for your money to grow and compound , allowing it to become a veritable fortune when you 're ready to retire if you invest it fairly aggressively .
No , that was not the right thing to do . A W-9 is the form used to certify that you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien for U.S. federal tax purposes . You want to fill out a W-8BEN , available on the <URL> There is a spot on a W-8BEN for you to include your U.S. social security number . A Form W-8 is used to certify that you are NOT a U.S. resident for U.S. federal tax purposes .
If I have an average monthly return on capital of 5 % If you have monthly data , then it might be better not to use your average return at all , but your compounded return based on those months . The average , being an average , will be pulled up in good months , so you may have one good month which brings the whole average up . As an example , if you have three months of data with returns of 5 % , 1 % , and -3 % , your average return is 1 % . But the compounded return is 0.95 % . 0.95 % is a clearer indicator of how well the investments performed . is it more common to use that number for performance or use the annualized value More commonly I have seen the annualized number , because that is how things are typically reported -- you do n't speak of quarterly returns when measuring the total value of an investment . But even then , you would compound it -- it would not be a straight multiple . Continuing the above example , the compounded annual return would be 11.98 % , vs. the average monthly return multiplied by 12 , which yields 12.00 % . In this example , a 0.02 % variance is n't a lot , but if you have large numbers offsetting your average , it can be a material difference .
There are a few potential downsides but they are minor : If you forget to make the payment the interest hit the following month could be significant . With many cards the new charges will be charged interest from the start if the previous payment was late/missed . Just make sure you do n't forget to pay the entire bill . If the $ 5K in monthly bills is a large portion of the credit limit for that credit card you could run into a problem with the grace period . During the three weeks between when the monthly bill closes and the payment is due , new charges will keep rolling in . Plan on needing a credit limit for the card of 2x the monthly bills . Of course you do n't have to wait for the due date . Just go online and pay the bill early . If the monthly bills are a significant portion of the total credit limit for all credit cards , it can decrease your credit score because of the high utilization rate . The good news is that over time the credit card company will increase your credit limit thus reducing the downsides of the last two items . Also keep in mind you generally ca n't pay a credit card bill or loan with a credit card , but many of the other bills each month can be handled this way .
As Dilip stated , the return ( CAGR ) will not be the same as the average . For the simple mathematical explanation - ( R + x ) ( R-x ) will return R ^ 2-x ^ 2 over the two periods , not the average R ^ 2 result . The higher the variance , the worse the return over time . The issue may be less about this in the accumulation phase then when a retiree is withdrawing funds . I 'd prefer the first 10 years of my retirement produce extraordinary returns followed by a below average decade than the reverse .
Scenario 1 Only your company can tell you if you can still exercise the options , and under what terms . Part of the agreement to sell a company includes dealing with the employee 's benefits and options . Since the company that gave you the options no longer exists - there 's no default answer , you should check your specific situation . In many cases , in this scenario , options are replaced by the options to the new company , with a new vesting schedule . Scenario 2 In this scenario , you exercised the options before the startup was bought , which effectively made you one of the shareholders selling . Your income will be based on the valuation of the company , and if it is not a publicly traded company - its a fairly complicated matter . You should get a professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to work on this with your company . When you sell your shares in the buyout by the new owner , you will realize gain which is of course taxed . That would be taxed as capital gain , based on the difference between the valuation you 've been taxed upon , and the sales price . A thing to remember : if you 're exercising the options and keeping the stocks - you may get hit by the AMT . I suggest talking to a professional adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to plan accordingly .
end question
start question
How do you determine the dividend payout date for Mutual Funds ?
Determine which fund company issues the fund . In this case , a search reveals the fund name to be Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund from Vanguard Funds . Locate information for the fund on the fund company 's web site . Here is the <URL> . In the fund information , look for information about distributions . In the case of VDIGX , the fourth tab to the right of " Overview " is " Distributions " . <URL> . At the top : Distributions for this fund are scheduled Semi-Annually The actual distribution history should give you some clues as to when . Failing that , ask your broker or the fund company directly . On " distribution " vs. " dividend " : When a mutual fund spins off periodic cash , it is generally not called a " dividend " , but rather a " distribution " . The terminology is different because a distribution can be made up of more than one kind of payout . Dividends are just one kind . Capital gains , interest , and return of capital are other kinds of cash that can be distributed . While cash is cash , the nature of each varies for tax purposes and so they are classified differently .
Googling led me to <URL> which has detailed breakdowns of the Target Retirement funds ; that page in turn has a link to <URL> which goes into a good level of detail on the construction of these funds ' portfolios . I excerpt : ( To the question of why so much weight in equities :) In our view , two important considerations justify an expectation of an equity risk premium . The first is the historical record : In the past , and in many countries , stock market investors have been rewarded with such a premium . ... Historically , bond returns have lagged equity returns by about 5 -- 6 percentage points , annualized -- amounting to an enormous return differential in most circumstances over longer time periods . Consequently , retirement savers investing only in " safe " assets must dramatically increase their savings rates to compensate for the lower expected returns those investments offer . ... The second strategic principle underlying our glidepath construction -- that younger investors are better able to withstand risk -- recognizes that an individual 's total net worth consists of both their current financial holdings and their future work earnings . For younger individuals , the majority of their ultimate retirement wealth is in the form of what they will earn in the future , or their " human capital . " Therefore , a large commitment to stocks in a younger person 's portfolio may be appropriate to balance and diversify risk exposure to work-related earnings ( To the question of how the exact allocations were decided :) As part of the process of evaluating and identifying an appropriate glide path given this theoretical framework , we ran various financial simulations using the Vanguard Capital Markets Model . We examined different risk-reward scenarios and the potential implications of different glide paths and TDF approaches . The PDF is highly readable , I would say , and includes references to quant articles , for those that like that sort of thing .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
First , you do n't state where you are and this is a rather global site . There are people from Canada , US , and many other countries here so " mutual funds " that mean one thing to you may be a bit different for someone in a foreign country for one point . Thanks for stating that point in a tag . Second , mutual funds are merely a type of investment vehicle , there is something to be said for what is in the fund which could be an investment company , trust or a few other possibilities . Within North America there are money market mutual funds , bond mutual funds , stock mutual funds , mutual funds of other mutual funds and funds that are a combination of any and all of the former choices . Thus , something like a money market mutual fund would be low risk but quite likely low return as well . Short-term bond funds would bring up the risk a tick though this depends on how you handle the volatility of the fund 's NAV changing . There is also something to be said for open-end , ETF and closed-end funds that are a few types to consider as well . Third , taxes are something not even mentioned here which could impact which kinds of funds make sense as some funds may invest in instruments with favorable tax-treatment . Aside from funds , I 'd look at CDs and Treasuries would be my suggestion . With a rather short time frame , stocks could be quite dangerous to my mind . I 'd only suggest stocks if you are investing for at least 5 years . In 2 years there is a lot that can happen with stocks where if you look at history there was a record of stocks going down about 1 in every 4 years on average . Something to consider is what kind of downside would you accept here ? Are you OK if what you save gets cut in half ? This is what can happen with some growth funds in the short-term which is what a 2 year time horizon looks like . If you do with a stock mutual fund , it would be a gamble to my mind . Do n't forget that if the fund goes down 10 % and then comes up 10 % , you 're still down 1 % since the down will take more .
Here are a few points to consider : Taxes : As a consultant , you will be responsible for the employer portion of the Social Security and Medicare taxes , and you might have to pay for state unemployment insurance and state disability insurance , as well . Office expenses : As a consultant , you may be required to buy your own laptop , pay for your own software licenses and buy other office-related supplies . For higher-end services , you may be setting up a complete office and even hire your own secretary and other support staff . Benefits : As a consultant , you will be responsible for your own health insurance , retirement plan and other benefits that an employer would ordinarily provide . Education : Your employer will likely pay for books and magazine subscriptions and send you to seminars , in order to keep your skills current ; your client wo n't . Liability : Consultants face certain liabilities that employees do n't , and have to factor the cost of insuring against those risks into their rate . Let 's say you 're a software developer , and your faulty code causes a nuclear plant 's reactor core to overheat and melt down . As an employee , you 'll get fired . As a consultant , you will get sued . Even consultants in low-risk fields can easily shell out thousands of dollars per year for a basic general liability policy . Sales &amp; marketing : Do n't forget that when your contract ends , you will have expenses associated with finding your next client , including the opportunity cost of not getting paid for your services during that time . All these factors contribute to your overhead , which you have to roll into your consulting rate . You should also add a margin of profit -- after all , as you 're in business for yourself , you should be compensated for taking this entrepreneurial risk . If you 're looking for a quick over-the-thumb rule , you can figure that your equivalent consulting rate should be about twice what you would be paid hourly as an employee . Assuming you work 2,000 hours a year , if you would receive a $ 100,000 salary , your hourly rate should be $ 100 . Of course , this is only a very rough guideline . Ultimately , your rate will mostly be influenced by how established you are and how much your services are in demand .
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
It 's a good screening device . <URL> : Specifically , it measures load-adjusted total returns from the past three - , five - , and 10-year periods . Then it adjusts for risk so that high-risk funds are taken down a peg or two , and low-risk funds are moved up a bit . The risk-adjusted measure is then graded on a curve within a category . We give 5 stars to 10 % of the funds , 22.5 % earn 4 stars , 35 % take the 3-star rating , 22.5 % take 2 stars , and 10 % earn 1 star .
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
The OP invests a large amount of money each year ( 30-40k ) , and has significant amount already invested . Some in the United States that face this situation may want to look at using the bonus to fund two years worth of IRA or Roth IRA . During the period between January 1st and tax day they can put money into a IRA or Roth IRA for the previous year , and for the current year . The two deposits might have to be made separately , because the tax year for each deposit must be specified . If the individual is married , they can also fund their spouses IRA or Roth IRA . If this bonus is this large every year , the double deposit can only be done the first time , but if the windfall was unexpected getting the previous years deposit done before tax day could be useful . The deposits for the current year could still be spread out over the next 12 months . EDIT : Having thought about the issue a little more I have realized there are other timing issues that need to be considered . If the decision is made to spread the deposits over a long period of time , there are still investment minimums that need to be considered . Assume $ 65K to be invested this year , that would be ~ $ 5400 a month , If the decision is to fund several investments ( Large Company , emerging markets , bonds ) and if these are new funds , the deposits may have to be lumpier than desired to make sure that the minimums are reached . Keep in mind that the OP currently invests daily and weekly . In a similar concern , some funds/investment companies change fees and classes of funds based on the amount invested in their funds , getting to those minimums quickly has advantages . Another type of investment also has deadlines : putting money into a 529 . Unfortunately to credit the investment for a year it must be done by December 31st . The amount of money that can be invested in one year , the maximum tax credit/deduction , and lifetime maximums depend on the state .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
I am going to try to take your questions one at a time : Why there is an investment min This is because the mutual fund company has decided to set this level , although it varies from fund to fund and fund company to fund company . It is usually dictated by the style of the investment and the fund company . Advantages of higher minimums include less record-keeping with small accounts and ensuring that you have " more serious " investors . Plus , mutual funds end up using your money to buy underlying investments , so lots of little amounts are less useful to them , likely . the buying cost is a lot more expensive than buying stocks ? Again , depends on the company and its objectives . I suppose you are less likely to be buying and selling mutual funds more often ( and they like it this way ) , so a larger fee cuts down on day trading and also helps the company make money . There are plenty of fund companies that offer their funds commission-free , however ( such as Vanguard ) . Is the investment min only for the initial buying or do I have to buy at least 10k each time when I want to add more value to it ? A mutual fund company will likely have both a minimum initial investment and a minimum additional investment , although the latter is likely much smaller . So , for example , you may have a $ 10k initial minimum , then a $ 500 minimum additional investment . Do I have to pay the same commission fee every time when I buy more of the same mutual fund ? Likely , yes . There may be exceptions on things like reinvested dividends , but check the details of the mutual fund account . These should be obviously laid out in a fees table . Why is the investment min and commission fees are waived in my 401k account ? This is due to an agreement that your employer has with the provider . Minimums are likely waived since there are a bunch of people at this employer all investing in the same funds . Commissions are waived as a part of the cost of providing the 401k to you .
I have a very hard time believing you pay 60 % of gross . Otherwise , I believe you 're right in the way this works : Suppose you make $ 100k and pay 25 % of that in taxes . 100,000 * .25 = 25,000 But if you spend $ 1,000 pretax , then it 's as if you were paid $ 99,000 99,000 * .25 = $ 24,750 So the difference is $ 250 . Which is the same as that $ 1,000 * .25 .
I 'll answer your question , but first a comment about your intended strategy . Buying government bonds in a retirement account is probably not a good idea . Government bonds ( generally ) are tax advantaged themselves , so they offer a lower interest rate than other types of bonds . At no tax or reduced tax , many people will accept the lower interest rate because their effective return may be similar or better depending , for example , on their own marginal tax rate . In a tax-advantaged retirement account , however , you 'll be getting the lower interest without any additional benefit because that account itself is already tax-advantaged . ( Buying bonds generally may be a good idea or not - I wo n't comment on that - but choose a different category of bonds . ) For the general question about the relationship between the Fed rate and the bond rate , they are positively correlated . There 's not direct causal relationship in the sense that the Fed is not setting the bond rate directly , but other interest bearing investment options are tied to the Fed rate and many of those interest-bearing options compete for the same investor dollars as the bonds that you 're reviewing . That 's at a whole market level . Individual bonds , however , may not be so tightly coupled since the creditworthiness of the issuing entity matters a lot too , so it could be that " bond rates " generally are going up but some specific bonds are going down based on something happening with the issuer , just like the stock market might be generally going up even as specific stocks are dropping . Also keep in mind that many bonds trade as securities on a secondary market much like stocks . So I 've talked about the bond rate . The price of the bonds themselves on the secondary market generally move opposite to the rate . The reason is that , for example , if you buy a bond at less than face value , you 're getting an effective interest rate that 's higher because you get the same sized incremental payments of interest but put less money into the investment . And vice versa .
In Canada , calculating the capital gain from selling a partial position is done based on average cost , as opposed to using First-In-First-Out ( FIFO ) or other rules distinguishing units based on date acquired . ( e.g. Canada does n't contrast " short-term " vs. " long-term " gains like the U.S. does . ) New units and old units in your non-registered accounts are all considered part of the same position when it comes to figuring the capital gains . The cost per unit you need to calculate to determine your capital gain is known officially as the <URL> , or ACB . From a simplistic perspective -- i.e. where no distributions were received -- the ACB per unit is the average price paid ( including commissions paid to acquire the shares or units . ) From this perspective , and probably incorrect for a mutual fund , your ACB would be : For typical company shares paying typical dividends , the ACB calculation would likely end there , as dividends are not a factor in the gain calculation -- unless you are <URL> . The ACB calculation is more complicated for mutual funds , exchange-traded funds , closed-end-funds , and income trusts , due to the kinds of distributions made by such investment vehicles . Distributions are frequently composed of more than just dividends . Fund distributions often contain components like <URL> ( ROC ) and distributed capital gains , i.e. when the fund itself realizes net gains on transactions in the portfolio and passes them through to you . Return-of-capital distributions reduce your ACB . Capital gain distributions increase your ACB . You do n't want to be taxed twice on distributed gains , so be sure to figure your ACB correctly . You can know if your fund issued those specific kinds of distributions by looking at the tax slips received , checking with the fund company ( e.g. their web site ) , or your broker/advisor . So , imagine if , in your example , you had also received $ 600 worth of distributions , identified as $ 80 dividends , $ 20 " other " income ( e.g. interest ) , $ 450 return-of-capital , and $ 50 capital gains . Then , your ACB per unit would then be : And so if you sold 300 units at $ 10 each , the net gain on the sale would be : ( And your $ 80 dividends and $ 20 " other " income would be taxed separately on your return , at their respective tax rates . ) I hope this helps . Here are some additional resources to check out : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
The post 4PM session is also called extended trading , it 's an extension of that day . Ex dividend occurs when the date changes , not when the day session closes .
I feel the same way too ! With two kids , I feel like I am spending what it would cost to run a small country just on clothes , shoes , jackets , replacing everything as it is grown out of ! A few things I do : I shop in affordable places and check out sales , and look for the cutest things I can find there in a reasonable price range . If you are n't browsing in the $ 60 baby dresses , you are n't tempted by them . I do n't go looking at $ 60 shirts for my son , he 's five and he does n't need a $ 60 shirt . I also really only shop for him two or three times a year for clothing ... back to school and early spring are the big ones . For fall I got him five pairs of jeans , maybe 8 tops , new socks , etc. . I 'll add in a couple of heavier sweatshirts , etc as I go , but I really do n't browse for him ... it 's too easy to find something to buy ! I look for inexpensive lines for the things that do n't really matter ... bright T 's for my son for summer that just get dirty and spilled on , sleepers , socks , pj 's , etc. . Joe Fresh , Walmart , Old Navy , Costco . Then I choose a few things that I know I want brand name or more stylish options for , and find ways to buy them more cheaply . These might be things like logo 'd fleece tops , trendy jackets , things where the style is actually noticed . I buy jeans at Old Navy for my son when they are on sale , I buy Gusti/Genevieve LaPierre snowsuits at Sears when they are 40 % off in Sept/Oct . The Childrens ' Place has good quality , stylish clothing for kids and if you watch , they always have deals on their jeans or tops ... then I stock up . And for younger kids , Old Navy and The Children 's Place jeans have adjustable waistbands . I 've already unrolled cuffs and let out the waist in my son 's back to school jeans . I have friends who are starting to take in bags of too-small clothing to consignment shops ... if they come away with $ 100 , it 's still $ 100 ! For preteen and teen kids who want certain brands , etc , I think it is very reasonable to say " we will pay x for each pair of jeans , or x for winter boots . If you want to throw in some babysitting/birthday money and go buy something more expensive , you are welcome to do so ! " That way , you are still paying for basics , but they can feel like they are n't stuck wearing things they do n't like . Tell them ... you can buy 5 tops at $ x each for back to school , or 10 tops at $ x. And lastly , and most sadly of all : buy less . . and stop shopping . There , I said it out loud . I try to be careful of what I buy , but I still find things I bought that were never worn . Now I keep a return basket in laundry/mudroom ... if I do n't love it , if it seems impractical now that I got it home , if I wanted it just in case item # 1 did n't work ... it goes in the basket . And I return them . I suck it up , I take it with me and go get my money back . Mistakes can be fixed if the items have n't been worn or washed .
Yes , on the settlement the stock is yours to sell with no risk of freeride or day trading applying .
It 's not so much pros and cons as much as it is what are your savings goals ? While it 's best to start early to save money for retirement , you may have numerous short - to medium-term savings goals ( school , down payment , etc ) . Here 's a template you can consider . I would suggest that you open up an RRSP mutual fund or brokerage account and invest a certain amount that you feel free locking up for the next few decades and investing it in some sort of growth product ( perhaps look at portfolios using the <URL> ) . Then , also open up a TFSA mutual fund or brokerage account and use it to invest for medium-term goals ( i.e. 5-10 years ) . Invest in products that will allow for some growth but with low chance of losing principle in that time frame . What I would n't do is open up a TFSA savings account and use it for day-to-day savings . The tax you save is negligible and you would need to keep track of deposits and withdrawals to ensure that you do n't overcontribute for the tax year . Similarly , an RRSP savings account or GIC is far too conservative at your age , IMHO . Think of RRSP and TFSA as investment vehicles rather than accounts per se . Either type allows for you to invest in a vast array of products , including mutual funds , equities , some derivatives , gold , bonds , GICs , etc. . To conclude , my view is to use RRSP to invest for conventional retirement goals , and use the TFSA to invest for medium-term and early retirement goals .
end question
start question
Selling vacation home - does capital gains basis include selling fees ?
Can I include any of these in the property " basis " when figuring capital gains ? Some . my closing costs ( broker fees , title company fees ) etc Closing costs that can not be expensed are added to the basis . closing costs amount paid to buyer This is essentially a discount on price , so yes - it is added to the basis . apportioned amount for year 's county taxes , month 's HOA fees etc These can not be added to the basis since these are expenses . This are not part of the property acquiring/sale costs , but part of the property maintenance/ownership costs . Since it is a vacation home - you can not deduct them ( although you may be able to deduct the county taxes on your Schedule A , if you qualify ) . Also , can I include repairs the buyer asked for as part of the contract ( new Water Heater , new electrical outlets ) ? These are also expenses . You may want to ask a professional about the new water heater , but I would argue that replacing a broken heater is not an improvement and as such is an expense . So no , not deductible at all for vacation homes ( could be for rentals ) , and you can not add them to the basis . IANAL and IANATA ( I 'm Not A Tax Adviser ) . Please consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your State to confirm .
In the US this is considered a sale , and the proceeds will be taxed as if you 've sold the stocks in any other way . The decision about the treatment ( capital , ordinary , etc ) is dependent on what kind of stock that is , how you acquired it , how long have you held it , etc. . If it is a regular stock that you bought as an investment and held it for more than a year - then it will likely to be a capital gain treatment . However , this is only relevant for the US taxation . Since you 're a UK person , you should also check how it is handled in the UK , which may or may not be different .
Do you simply get call options you can sell on an options exchange ? No , you do n't get call options that you can sell on an options exchange . Rather , you get rights that you can ( generally ) sell on the stock exchange . The right issue is in essence a call option -- in that it behaves like one , but it is not considered a standardized option contract . is there a special exchange where such rights issues are traded ? No . It will normally be done on the stock exchange .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
The answer to this question is whatever agreement you and your friend make . It seems reasonable to me that if the two of you agreed that the remodel was necessary and you paid for it , you should be reimbursed from the proceeds of the home before the rest of the profit is split . But that 's just my opinion . Jointly-owned homes are a difficult situation for this very reason . Hopefully , the two of you are still friendly and can work it out .
Generally speaking , you realize options gains or losses for ( US ) tax purposes when you close out the option position , or when it expires so in your example , if you 're discussing an equity option , you 'd realize the gain or loss next year , assuming you do n't close it out prior to year end . But options tax treatment can get messy fast : The above is not true for options on broad-based indices ( like the S&amp;P 500 ) . So-called " 1256 contracts " on such indices realize gains or losses based on the mark-to-market value at year end , regardless of when they are closed or expire . If you have other positions in options on the same underlying stock , or the stock itself , it 's more complex . For example , if you had sold shares of the stock at a loss in the 30 days prior to selling deep in the money naked puts , you 'd likely trigger the wash sale rule , forcing you to defer the losses you took in the stock . Similarly , if you shorted stock this year while you had gains in the naked put position , you would potentially trigger the " short sale " rule , which would force you to realize gains on the naked put this year , unless you qualify for something called the " short-term hedge exemption " . Still , if you have no other stock or option positions in the underlying during or within 30 days of the establishment of the naked put , and assuming the option is n't assigned , you wo n't realize any gains or losses until the year in which the option is closed or expires .
<URL> has the definition of 1/100th of a percentage point . So , 8.75 percent is 875 basis points for one example . A quarter of one percent would be 25 basis points for another example .
Of course . The rationale is exactly the same as always : profit is taxed . The fact that you use intermediate barter to make that profit is irrelevant . To clarify , as it seems that you think it makes a difference that no money " changed hands " . Consider this situation : You produced item X , which cost you $ 100 to produce . You have 100 of those in stock . You priced each item X at $ 200 in your store . So far your cost is $ 10000 . You sold 100 units of item X to a customer who paid you with gold coins worth $ 20000 . How did the customer come up with the amount of gold ? Easy : converted your price for the items based on the current gold spot price , whatever it is . You did n't get any $ $ $ , you only got some gold coins , but the value of the gold you got is " accidentally " exactly the same as the value of $ $ $ you would get had you sold your merchandise for $ $ $ . How will the tax authority address this ? They will look at the fair market value of the barter . You got gold worth of $ 20000 . So from their perspective , you got $ 20000 , and immediately exchanged it into gold . What does it mean for you ? That you 're taxed on the $ 10000 gain you made on your product X ( the $ 20000 worth of barter that you received minus the $ 10000 worth of work/material/expenses that you spend on producing the merchandise ) , and that you have $ 20000 basis in the gold that you now own . If in a year , when you plan to sell the gold , its price drops - you can deduct investment losses . If its price goes up - you 'll have investment gain . But for the gain you 're making on your product X you will pay taxes now , because that 's when you realized it - sold the merchandize and received in return something else of a value .
I wo n't discuss the current market as much as I will address the title question . Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depends on who you are . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about houses ? the market ? the paperwork involved in a sale ? do I like talking with people I do n't know ? am I comfortable sharing my opinions , advising others , negotiating ? does anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? am I familiar with other neighbourhoods , features , benefits , nearby amenities , comparable homes , design elements , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do showings , can I handle the communication , appointments , etc necessary to show the home ? What is a reasonable asking price ? How did I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There is a great deal more involved with selling a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chances are you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these areas . I watched a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He wrote up a great ad with a popular company that supports private sellers . The home had undergone many upgrades , the ad raved about them and all other related info , the price was realistic in the market at the time , and he was a gregarious , confident guy who worked in sales . He had no problem taking calls , answering questions , and had enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He got a great price , over asking , in about 20 days . Contrast this to another person I watched list her home privately . She was quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home needed some upgrading but was solid and attractive , the ad was more generic , the photos were flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market timing . She reduced , then reduced again . I think it took six months before it finally sold . I could n't have imagined her selling anything , much less a house . Or negotiating . Some people just do n't have that sales personality . Of course it 's much , much cheaper to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , are you up for the challenge ?
Is this just appealing to potential sellers ' need for instant gratification , or am I missing something here ? Timing matters for some people . If you are moving cross country , it 's important to be able to sell your house quickly if you want to sell . This can also matter if the seller is interested in buying another home . If their existing home takes three months to sell and they have already picked a home they want , it can make the timing of funds transfers quite inconvenient - often people need to sell their existing home in order to make a down payment on a future home .
There 's no scenario that is best in all conditions . Let 's say you will lock in a profit of $ 10,000 immediately , and end up paying $ 2,000 in capital gains taxes . That 's money that otherwise would be growing inside your investment . The counterpoint , of course , is that transferring your investment to one with a lower cost means the proposed investment has a higher expected return . So , it 's going to depend on the expected return of each investment ( which includes the cost of each investment ) and the time frame of your investment . In the 2015 tax year , I sold mutual funds with a cost of approximately 0.35 % in order to switch to ETFs with a cost of approximately 0.06 % , locking in capital gains at the time . In hindsight , I 'm not sure that was worthwhile ; the capital gains are rather costly and my investment horizon is shorter than yours . But it 's at least debatable . If the cost difference or expected return is significantly larger , your decision may be easier than mine .
First a warning : if you 're a foreigner you must familiarize yourself with the FATCA and FBAR requirements . Search this forum and ask questions if you do n't know what these are . The penalties are horrifying and can drive you bankrupt even if you do n't even owe a dime in taxes , just because you did n't attach a piece of paper to your tax return . To your question : In the United States , brokers/banks do not withhold taxes from your gains ( what is called " at source " ) , it is your responsibility . Taxes are due when the income is earned , i.e. : when you sell the stocks . Paying on April 15th next year may trigger late payment penalties . The right way to do it is using <URL> . However , since capital gains is not your only income but you also have salary , you have another option . Using <URL> , you can adjust the withholding your employer takes out of your paycheck so that it will cover not only the salary itself but also the extra income you have through capital gains . If you do that , you do not need to do the quarterly estimates . You can use the worksheets in W4 instructions to calculate the exact number . What you need to understand is that the employer does n't withhold the actual tax , but rather what you think your actual tax should be given your situation . Using form W4 you can ask the employer to withhold more or less , and you can change your selection during the year if adjustments are required . Any tax paid through withholding is considered paid on time ( even if all of it is paid on December 31st ) . If you withheld too much , it balances out on your yearly tax return ( the one due by the April 15th ) , and you get a refund from the IRS . If you withheld too little - you have tax due on April 15th and you pay it . As long as due is less than $ 1000 or whatever your tax liability was the year before - you wo n't have penalties ( the $ 1000 delta refers to withholding only , if you paid through estimates and have tax due - you may get hit by penalties even if you owe less than $ 1000 ) . Do I have to keep all record of transactions in order to calculate the gains and appropriate tax payment ? You need to keep all records as long as the tax year is open ( statute of limitation is 3-6 years for most income tax issues ) , however it is advised to digitize your records and keep it forever . You 'll need it in case of an audit or dispute with the IRS or the State taxing agency .
I believe the Investopedia article is incomplete . As you can see in other articles like this : <URL> CAPEX applies to Long Term Assets in general , not just tangible ones . Therefore , CAPEX is both amortized and depreciated , depending on whether it is tangible or intangible . To quote , " Expenses incurred to acquire intangible assets such as goodwill , patents , etc. are also capital expenditure . "
What are the available infrastructure bonds The available bonds keep changing . This ca n't be answered as its a product recommendation . Ask your broker or Bank or watch the newspapers , you will know what is currently available . At times there maybe no bond available . and can one withdraw that amount at any moment or some lock-in period is there ? Yes generally a lock-in period of 3 years . How capital gain account is different from savings account ? A capital gains account is a Bank Account . The deposit in this only allowed upon submitting the documents verifying that the money is due to capital gains . Withdrawal is only permitted to buy another property , else tax has to be paid at withdrawal . Talk to your banker and he should be able to explain more details .
If the items you sold are items you previously bought for a higher price , the money you get selling them is not income , as you are taking a loss . However , you can not deduct such losses . If you sell anything for more than what you paid for , the difference is a gain and is taxable . See this IRS web site for the explanation : <URL>
Typical costs to buy might include : 1000 or so in financing costs ( including title fees etc. ) couple hundred for inspection any moving costs probably some repairs and new furniture after moving in One piece of advice if you 've never bought , fixing problems with a house always seems to cost more than the discount in price due to the problems . Say the house needs a 15K new kitchen it seems like it will be just 7K cheaper than a house with a good kitchen , that kind of thing . Careful with the fixer uppers . Costs to sell include : 3 % to seller 's agent and 3 % to buyer 's agent any repairs and landscaping you were putting off potentially staging or professional cleaning any repairs the buyer demands after inspection , that you agree to and of course you have the buying costs again for the replacement house Doing your own cleaning , repairs , moving , etc. can save a lot . You can also choose to work without an agent but I do n't know how wise it is , especially for a first time buyer . In my town there are some agents that are buyers only , never seller 's agents , which helps keep them unconflicted . Agent commissions may be lower in some areas or negotiable anywhere . Real estate transfer taxes may be owed by buyer or seller depending on location : <URL>
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
They are taxed , but you are allowed to deduct cost . So you only profit if you sell them for more than you paid . If you are truly worried about taxes , you might be better off donating them to Goodwill and writing off the donation
Why only long term investments ? What do they care if I buy and sell shares in a company in the same year ? Simple , your actually investing when you hold it for a long term . If you hold a stock for a week or a month there is very little that can happen to change the price , in a perfect market the value of a company should stay the same from yesterday to today so long as there is no news ( a perfect market can not exist ) . When you hold a stock for a long term you really are investing in the company and saying " this company will grow " . Short term investing is mostly speculation and speculation causes securities to be incorrectly valued . So when a retail investor puts money into something like Facebook for example they can easily be burned by speculation whether its to the upside or downside . If the goal is to get me to invest my money , then why not give apply capital gains tax to my savings account at my local bank ? Or a CD account ? I believe your gains on these accounts are taxed ... Not sure at what rate . If the goal is to help the overall health of business , how does it do that ? During an IPO , the business certainly raises money , but after that I 'm just buying and selling shares with other private shareholders . Why does the government give me an incentive to do this ( and then hold onto it for at least a year ) ? There are many reasons why a company cares about its market price : A companies market cap is calculated by price * shares outstanding . A market cap is basically what the market is saying your company is worth . A company can offer more shares or sell shares they currently hold in order to raise even more capital . A company can offer shares instead of cash when buying out another company . It can pay for many things with shares . Many executives and top level employees are payed with stock options , so they defiantly want to see there price higher . these are some basic reasons but there are more and they can be more complex .
Reporting costs on a fully-loaded basis means that the business should report costs directly and indirectly associated with its product and the relevant indirect costs , e.g. overhead , indirect charges , etc. . If you 're looking at a company in general , the fully-loaded cost basis of the firm is essentially all costs related to the product ( s ) it offers . In economics/accounting 101 terms , reporting costs on a fully-loaded basis means reporting both the fixed and variable costs associated with production . Fixed costs are costs that remain constant regardless of how much the firm produces , e.g. general overhead like rent , managers ' salaries , etc. while variable costs are per-unit costs that may change as the firm increases or decreases production , e.g. the cost of materials , hourly wages , etc. .
end question
start question
Should I update my address tied to an old bank account if I 'm planning to move again in a couple of months ?
The damage has already been done . Your address discrepancy will n't matter much as you have other credits which have your new addresses and are connected to your old address . So you addresses will have already been linked , without any breaks , to identify you as the same person . overdrawn , making irregular payments to counter the interest while I focus on higher priority debts The bank might have tried contacting you for payments , any letters or visits you received or know of . They might have tried to help you in your payments , you might have missed the chance . Many banks tend to have schemes to help people in difficulty . So do n't do that again and check your balance left in the account . They might have added fees . Never do that again , and always keep your bank in loop as they might be able to help . Contact the bank and explain your scenario , it is never too late . And check if they have n't sent it across to any debt collection agency , which is a very unhelpful scenario . If bailiffs turn up , which is n't pleasant , be prepared . There are some scum bailiffs who try to scam you money , against the law . Get some help in how to deal with them . Ask the citizen 's advice for help , if it comes to that . 1 . Tell the bank about my current address now , then tell them of my new address when I move Tell them now about your current address and when you move update them immediately . It does n't matter much in how frequently you change because you real staying time in an address is n't only collated from one credit , but all credits you have . 2 . Wait until I move , then just give them my new address This also might n't be a bad option . Change and then update them . Or call up the bank and ask for advice . But get in touch with the bank . Bailiff 's at your door is never ever good . Those idiots turn up at odd times , to catch you at your most vulnerable moment .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
Like Bluetie Grasper have said . Can I create a PayPal account and receive $ 200 ( or a similar amount ) without adding a bank account , credit card , or anything but my email address ? The answer is No . You can transfer the money to your PayPal account but until you verify it with your personal information with at least a credit card or mostly likely a bank account , PayPal will hold those funds until otherwise . Can I then use that money to buy on Amazon , still without adding anything but my email address ? If not , can I buy gift cards and use those on Amazon ? Amazon does not accept PayPal .
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
It is generally best to avoid such situations . Any credits to your accounts need to be explained to tax authorities whenever they enquire . This can not be treated as income as you did not work in exchange for the amount . It can be treated by tax authorities as GIFT . Gift upto certain amount is tax free . Beyond the amount its taxable . Gifts from close relatives has not amount limit and is tax free . Whenever the scrutiny happens , if you can convince the tax authorities that the action was more for convenience , it maybe fine .
All they should need is authorization to do a one-time query of your balances from the bank , to confirm that the balance statement you 're showing them is correct and not forged . ( If that . ) If they ask for more access than that , walk out and find someone else .
You probably do need an IRS form . Reason being that a US payer must withhold 30 % of the payment to you as income tax and remit it to the IRS . You 're then expected to file a refund claim with the IRS to get it back , unless your own country will let you deduct it from your local tax liability ( and even that only if your local tax liability on that money is at least 30 % ) . You do n't have to , of course , but then you 're losing your money to the benefit of the US debt reduction . In addition , <URL> , which may limit or even eliminate that withholding altogether . In order to claim your treaty benefit you must submit form <URL> to your employer , and specify the treaty and the article of the treaty on lines 9 and 10 . I suggest you find a CPA who is US-licensed and works in Australia or with Australians to help you with this . Dealing with the treaty may be problematic if you do n't know what you 're doing . I 'm pretty sure a professional adviser who deals with your type of clients will be able to help you quickly and inexpensively . American taxes are more horrific than any horror movie you 've ever seen . Welcome to our world . We deal with the IRS so often that some of us even consider it being the normal way of things ...
Yes , your email address is your " PayPal " account . It 's what people use to send you money , and what you use to pay people .
Some additional information for the people who may read this question in the future : The situation is weird , to say the least . I 'm going to assume 2 things : You two ( you and the person who contacted you ) do n't know each other . You have only talked via e-mail , not voice . Now , look at these classic its-a-scam red flags : Random person contacts you . They want to do something with your bank account . They wont give out details about them , but will request/demand all sorts of personal/private details from you . They are in trouble . or its urgent . they want you to act fast ( haste makes waste ) Yet they can still communicate with you via internet/phone . In these conditions , it is not safe to give even the smallest shred of information to such people . I 'd advise you to ignore this person ( best option ) , or to offer to get them in touch with an official ( most scammers will run away at this point ) or threaten to report them ( not recommended , the scammer may take insult and try to " get back at you " ) . Hope this post helps and nobody gets scammed ! EDIT : Thank you for the amazing welcome ! If I 'd have known I 'd get such a huge response , I 'd have written a better answer ;) ( I hope I 'm not breaking any rules by this edit )
" I really want us to succeed and I 'm going to work my butt off in order to make that happen . In order to make sure our interests are completely aligned , is there some way that I could receive part of my compensation as equity ? I realize this has a higher risk for me since I 'd be receiving less cash in the form of salary up front , but I believe in our business and I 'm willing to take this risk . I want to make a bet on this company doing extremely well because of the hard work that I 'm putting into it . "
I assume you are filing US taxes because you are a US citizen , resident alien , or other " US person " . If you have a total of $ 10,000 or more in assets in non-US accounts , you are required to file FinCEN Form 114 , Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts , also known as FBAR , to report those accounts . See <URL> . Note this refers to the total balance in the account ( combined with any other accounts you may have ) ; the amount you transferred this year is not relevant . Also note that the FBAR is filed separately from your income tax return ( it does not go to the IRS ) , though if you have over $ 50,000 in offshore assets you may also have to file IRS Form 8938 . Simply reporting those accounts does not necessarily mean you will owe extra taxes . Most US taxes are based on income , not assets . According to the page linked , the maximum penalty for a " willful " failure to report such accounts is a fine of $ 100,000 or 50 % of the assets in question , whichever is greater , in addition to possible criminal sanctions . There may be other US filing requirements that I do n't know about , so you may want to consult a tax professional . I do not know anything about your filing requirements under Indian law .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
Looking purely at the numbers , it will cost you $ 200/month to lease a Hyundai Accent . That 's a cost of $ 2400/year . If you hold on to your Mazda Protege for another year , it costs you $ 1000 . Now , you say you need new winter tyres . So , your questions are twofold : 1 . How much will winter tyres cost ? 2 . How much will these tyres add to the value of your Protege , when it comes to selling them ? Assuming the answers are " less than $ 1400 " and " $ 0 " , it makes more financial sense to hold on to your Protege for one more year . Of course , there are other considerations . A new vehicle is likely to be more reliable , while your Protege may break down over the next year . And most people would recommend you buy rather than lease a vehicle . Or you may want to consider selling the Protege and picking up a second-hand vehicle rather than buying or leasing a new car .
A CD will give you a higher rate of return . The tradeoff is you can not access your money until the CD matures . If you need the ability to get your money , you should choose a savings account . If you wo n't use your money for awhile , choose a CD . Right now interest rates are so abysmal , you are n't going to get much return with either ( so I would recommend against locking up your money in a CD ) .
As recommended by littleadv , I searched online for lists of banks in both my state and the state where the will was probated . The first one I tried , PNC Bank , was a winner . They offered estate accounts , online banking , mobile deposit , and have local branches that are open on Saturday .
You can contribute to a Roth IRA , but if you exceed the limits you have these options on dealing with this : Re-characterize the contribution to a Traditional IRA , and then perform a " loophole " conversion to Roth IRA . That 's the best ( IMHO ) option . You will be liable for taxes on earnings and no penalties . Withdraw the excess contribution , you 'll be liable for taxes on earnings and no penalties , but you wo n't have any IRA contributions for the year . Recharacterize and leave as Traditional IRA , that will leave you with zero tax liability but may cause problems ( aka taxes ) later if you 're back to the " loophole " scenario . Leave the money you deposited and pay 6 % excise tax - not advisable . About the loophole conversion - see <URL> .
I have been through some of this recently . These are the Ontario rules as I know them , and since my searches led to some other provinces ' rules , it seems likely they are the same in the rest of Canada with the possible exception of Quebec . First , if one of the people buying the house actively ca n't qualify for the mortgage due to bad credit , their name ca n't be on the deed . If someone else needs to cosign with you to improve the amount you can borrow or the rate you 'll be charged , their name needs to be on the deed . These things are not negotiable - the lender does n't want to lend you $ 200,000 to only buy half of a $ 250,000 house . ( Your cosigner does n't need to own an equal share , but they need to be on the deed . ) Second , if you are legally married , and you will live in the house together , it does n't matter whose name is on the deed , you both own all of the house . Many couples who are n't married may also choose to take on this arrangement . This is the " as joint tenants and not as tenants in common " wording you may see on documents . You do n't each own half the house the way a brother and sister might , you each own all of it . Neither can sell it without the other 's permission , or rent it out , or change the locks . There is simply no impact on any future divorce proceeding of whose name you put on the deed/mortgage , with the possible exception of some extra legal expenses if one person thinks they can do something they ca n't do and the other person has to get a court order to prove they ca n't . As long as you both know what you ca n't do , you 're cool . Keep in mind this does not apply to common law couples . For them , whose name ( s ) is/are on the deed is the only thing that matters ( in the absence of a cohabitation agreement . ) Whenever you " do n't need to " be listed as a borrower , it is very much to your advantage to be so listed . You get the benefit of improving your credit score if the loan is managed properly , and any loan that either one of you can afford alone is certain to be managed properly . So while the unneeded spouse may not be taking any risks by not being included on it ( assuming it 's a marital home ) they are possibly giving up some benefit .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
Do not take the cash ! You might be able to leave the money with the large company . Ask the HR people at the company . If you are satisfied with their work , no sense leaving if you do n't have to . I have coworkers that have 401K all over from all the buyouts the company went through . If you do n't want to leave it behind , do a rollover into your own account with a low cost carrier . ( Vanguard , Fidelity and Charles Schwab are popular ) Whoever you choose for your own account can help you rollover the funds without penalty . ( Schwab helped me over the phone , it was pretty simple ) <URL>
Seems like you could shoehorn this into an investment account . You make purchases similar to what you would make in a money market account ( $ 1 per share ) via your premium payments . You see appreciation in those shares . You incur expenses on your " purchases " via cost of insurance and possibly monthly payment fees .
end question
start question
When can I deduct commuting expenses ?
Commuting expenses to and from work are not deductible . If you have a second job and go directly there from your first job , then you can deduct the expenses of traveling to your second job . If you are self-employed and your business is run out of your home , you can deduct the travel expenses to go to a client 's site to do the work on Schedule C . If you have an office elsewhere , you can not deduct the expenses of going to your office , but going from your office to a client site is deductible on Schedule C. Be aware that this deduction is often abused and the IRS knows it and often audits people whom it suspects are embroidering their deductions , and so it is important to keep meticulous records of your business travel .
I 'd say you got this pretty close . The $ 900 multiplies to $ 10,800 , and becomes a Schedule A deduction to the extent that it exceeds 10 % of your adjusted gross income . The $ 1200 company plan simply comes off the top for tax purposes .
You have two moves , and you must pass the distance test and the time test . From the same <URL> : Distance test : Your move will meet the distance test if your new main job location is at least 50 miles farther from your former home than your old main job location was from your former home . For example , if your old main job location was 3 miles from your former home , your new main job location must be at least 53 miles from that former home . You can use Worksheet 1 to see if you meet this test . Time Test : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Let us assume : you live in City A and work 5 miles away . You thought you had a job 60 miles from City A so you moved to city B . It fell apart after a month you have another job you moved back to City A . The law does n't care about the distance between the new home and the new job , only the distance between the new job and the old home compared to the old home and the old job . Move # 1 : you fail the time test Move # 2 : you might eventually pass the time test if you work 39 of 52 weeks , but what about the distance test . If you had a new job that was close to city B you could eventually claim Move # 1 if you had n't moved . Combining both : If Job # 3 was more than 50 miles farther from house # 1 when compared to job # 1 and house # 1 ; you might have a case to claim some expenses , assuming you eventually worked 39 of 52 weeks . The problem is if the distance is n't far enough you run the risk of the IRS rejecting the entire thing . They would be concerned that somebody could spend a few bucks on a short duration cheap move to city B and then claim all the expenses for a move that was essentially across the street . You would have a hard time proving that the move to City B was intended to be permanent : you never established residency .
I believe you can , under professional fees . To be sure , you should ask a professional tax preparer or tax adviser ( CPA/EA ) .
The major reason to start an LLC for side work is if you want the additional personal liability protection afforded by one . If you 're operating as a sole proprietor , you may be exposing yourself to liability : debts and judgments against your business can put your personal assets at risk ! So , if you 're intending to continue and grow your side work in the future , you ought to consider the LLC sooner than later . It 's also an important legal decision and you should consider seeking a professional opinion . The Wall Street Journal has a brief guide titled <URL> . Here are some notable excerpts : A limited liability company , or LLC , is similar to a partnership but has the legal protections of personal assets that a corporation offers without the burdensome formalities , paperwork and fees . [ ... ] Some states charge annual fees and taxes that can diminish the economic advantage of choosing to become an LLC . Among LLC advantages : pass-through taxation -- meaning the profits and losses " pass through " the business to the individuals owning the business who report this information on their own personal tax returns . The result can be paying less in taxes , since profits are not taxed at both the business level and the personal level . Another plus : Owners are n't usually responsible for the company 's debts and liabilities . [ ... ] Also check out onstartups.com 's <URL> ? Here are some additional articles that discuss the advantages / disadvantages of forming an LLC : <URL> - allbusiness.com <URL> - ehow.com <URL> - gaebler.com
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
Think of it this way . The government has determined that certain expenses are effectively offsets of your income . So you are allowed to subtract things like mortgage interest , property taxes , charitable contributions , etc from your return . To reduce paperwork and provide equity to folks who do not own homes , there is a " standard deduction " that everyone is entitled to . There are also " tax credits " , which are reductions in your tax liability . Credits are often implemented to encourage certain behaviors ... for example , if you make energy-saving modifications to your home , you will get a certain amount of money credited to you .
Dying with no will is to die " intestate " and the rules ( order ) of inheritance are dictated by the state . It 's cheap enough , everyone should have one if only to make their wishes clear . On a personal note , if my wife , daughter and I all die in an accident , my will states that the designated beneficiaries must show the executor of my estate a valid will as a condition of their inheritance . If I 'm gone , I do n't actually care where they choose to leave it , it will be their money , but they need to be responsible enough to spell out the next beneficiary .
Is the employer responsible for reviewing medical expenses ? No , the employer is not responsible for reviewing medical expenses . It is the job of the individual account holder to determine if their account funds are being properly used . The individual would also be responsible for providing supporting evidence if faced with an IRS audit . Are employer-made HSA contributions deductible health care expenses ? The tax treatment depends on how the business is incorporated . For sole proprietors , partnerships , and S-corporations , contributions to a partner 's HSA will be treated as a distribution to the partner and included in the partner 's income and may be deductible by the partner but not by the business - <URL> For larger corporations , employer contributions are treated as employer provided coverage for medical expenses under an accident or health plan .
Does you employer offer a Flexible spending account ? If so , you deposit pretax funds to this account and are reimbursed for your ( medical ) insurance premiums . <URL> indicates <URL> shows what items are covered . I 'm sorry if this seems convoluted . Otherwise , health care is deductible as an itemized deduction only to the extent it exceeds 7.5 % of your AGI . For most , this does n't make the cut . CORRECTION - another question here <URL> resulted in the conclusion one can not use the FSA to pay insurance premiums . One can look at <URL> on the top of page 17 , " You can not receive distributions from your FSA for the following expenses . • Amounts paid for health insurance premiums . "
Yes , you should consider it . You should not necessarily do it though . You will need to investigate the management charges and performance on each scheme , as well as transfer penalties and whether your current scheme actually permits transfers in . Unfortunately the only way to do this is to dig through the small print for each scheme you are a member of ( and probably to look online for most recent charges and performance info ) . This is not a simple undertaking and many people opt not to bother . However , it is almost certainly the case that the older schemes are invested in funds with higher charges and/or poorer performance , so if you can bring yourself to put in the research it is probably worth it . The risk of course is that with all your eggs in one basket , if something goes horribly wrong you end up with insufficient pension . On the other hand , if your current scheme has more in it and you have relatively small amounts stagnating in the old schemes , then this is a low risk . Finally , you might want to consider taking out a personal or stakeholder pension instead and asking your employers if they would consider contributing to that rather than setting up yet another scheme , especially if you move jobs again .
As some of the comments indicated , you could ask your employer to give you a book buying budget , but if not ... As a developer there are books that should sit on your shelf , one those being Design Patterns . A quick search of Amazon or Half.com show these books retail new for about $ 40 , or you can buy used for $ 20 or less . Buy used and realize your savings that way . Another way to realize tax savings is to setup a company and do some side work . Any money you earn could be used to offset the cost of books or other resources and part or all of some of your expenses can be written off . The ability to write off work related expenses has basically disappeared , unless you have a lot of them and you itemize your taxes .
A pretty good ( and easy to implement ) play on the Euro failing would be to short the large Eurozone banks , e.g. Deutsche , Suisse , Societe , UBS , etc. . In fact , you could short just about any bank in the world , since they 're all screwed if that happens . Or you could short the Euro FX market . If you want to get complicated , you can get your broker to engineer a short on Euro sovereign bonds . Realistically , however , if the Euro collapses , we ( the world ) are going to be a lot poorer as a whole .
Yeah , it 's kindof assumed that if you have to go to the client , you 're not staying there forever . You deduct your mileage for the whole trip , including the part where you actually have to leave there and go back .
Depending on the nature of the expenses , you will enter them under Deductions , on lines 9 through 20 . Did you rent an office ? Add the rental expense to line 13 . Fee for a business license ? Line 14 . Everything else that does n't fall into any specific category goes on line 20 ( You 'll need to attach a small statement that breaks out the expense categories , e.g. office supplies , phone , legal fees , etc. ) Expenses that are entered in the Income section are costs directly related to sales , such as merchant fees that you pay to a bank if you take payments by credit card . Since you said the partnership has " zero money coming in , " I assume that it currently has no revenues , so all the fields in the Income section would be zero .
I 'd suggest starting with some general categories like @MrChrister suggests . Each month , as you compare actuals to budget , you 'll probably find some categories where you really feel like you need more details , or you need to exercise a little more discipline . Break those categories down further so that you can get the details you need . For example , if you find that you 're spending more money than you think you should on the Food category , you might break it down into Groceries , Restaurant Meals , Fast Food , and Work Lunches .
I 'd call the IRS to be sure . but if you can unwind this before your taxes are due you wo n't owe the 6 % tax on your excess contribution . Here 's <URL> with this information . ( Under Excess Contribution Tax . ) I could n't find a direct answer to your question . If this is impractical then you can also ( I believe ) contribute $ 25 less than you 're allowed to in 2011 to the appropriate IRA , and you 're clean . You will owe an extra $ 1.50 in taxes , though . But <URL> . They 've been very helpful to me the times I 've called .
From the <URL> : Deduction over $ 500 for certain clothing or household items . You must include with your return a qualified appraisal of any single item of clothing or any household item that is not in good used condition or better , that you donated after August 17 , 2006 , and for which you deduct more than $ 500 . See Household Goods and Used Clothing , earlier . Based on this quote , it is per item , not per total . However , if you donate more than $ 5K , an appraisal report is needed . In any case you need to keep all the receipts , and be able to substantiate your donation . I suggest keeping photographs of the donated items , and write down the prices in the thrift shop at which you 're donating , as the donation value . Edit I understand from your comment that you asked about the Kentucky State taxes . Similarly to Federal , you fill everything on Schedule A of your State tax form . From my brief reading , they 're following the Federal rules , and require form 8283 for non-cash donations over $ 500 . You only fill the form once , if total donations is over $ 500 , but on the form you write down items over $ 500 / $ 5000 separately with additional supporting documents ( appraisals etc ) if needed , or nothing - if not needed ( for items below $ 500 ) .
You 're a partnership . You should ask the money to be paid to the partnership . You 'll have to fill partnership income tax return ( form 1065 ) and each of you will get a K-1 schedule with your own personal portion of the income . For example , you 're Adam , Ben and Clara . You work together on a project and are being paid . You get a check for $ 300 issued to " Adam , Ben and Clara , DBA ABC Partnership " . You do n't have to have a DBA , it just makes it easier to show you as a single entity . You then deposit the check to an account you set up for your partnership , and from that account you transfer $ 100 to each of you . Year end , you file form 1065 , showing $ 300 income , and attach K-1 for each of the partners showing $ 100 income . That $ 100 income will flow to your individual tax returns . The overhead here is setting up a partnership account , potentially making a DBA , and filing the extra tax return . That 's the proper way to do it , especially if it is something you 're going to do regularly . For a one-time thing , one of you can get paid , report it as income on his/her Schedule C , and issue 1099 to the rest of you for your parts , and deduct the amount as his/her expense . Here , the overhead is Schedule C for each of you ( instead of Schedule E if handling it as a partnership ) , extra 1099 forms ( instead of 1065 and K-1s ) , and a risk of one partner defrauding the others ( depends on how much you trust each other ) . With proper documentation , each of these is equally legal , and tax-wise the costs are the same ( i.e. : either way you pay the same taxes ) . With partnership the overhead is a bit more expensive ( DBA +1065 extra cost ) , but in the long term it will make your life easier if you do this kind of thing regularly . You may want to consider setting up your partnership as a LLC/LLP ( depending on what your State allows ) , but that would require State paperwork and potentially more fees .
end question
start question
Why hedge when one can simply reduce the position size ?
Sometimes you may want to be in a position long term but are worried about short term volatility and the price going against you in that period . You do n't want to sell and re-buy back later as this may trigger a capital gain . Plus you do n't know the extent of the price drop or when it will start recovering , so an alternative is to hedge against any potential short term weakness in prices but still reap the long term gains without triggering any intermittent capital gains .
IRS Publication 17 Your Income Tax says on page 203 ( in regard to what you can deduct on Schedule A as an itemized deduction ) You can deduct safe deposit box rent if you use the box to store taxable income-producing stocks , bonds , or investment-related papers and documents . You can not deduct the rent if you use the box only for jewelry , other personal items , or tax-exempt securities . If you are taking the standard deduction , you get no additional tax advantage from your rental fee even if it is used solely for storage of investment property and documents . The tax advantage is incorporated into the standard deduction .
At exactly 105K you can take a deduction of 13/20 * 5500 = $ 3575 each and the rest ( $ 1925 ) as a Roth deposit . No need to have non-deducted money , when you can just make use of both flavors of IRA .
The lowest cost way to trade on an exchange is to trade directly on the exchange . I ca n't speak to the LSE , but in the US , there is a mandated firewall between the individual and the exchange , the broker ; therefore , in the US , one would have to start a business and become a broker . If that process is too costly , the broker or trade platform that permits individuals to trade with the lowest commissions is the next lowest .
CQM noted Interactive Brokers . There will be others as well that have access to the bonds directly . An easier ways to get short exposure might be through the bund futures market which will be accessible through many brokers . Even easier could be shorting a bund etf . However , remember to <URL> unless you really know what you are doing . Finally , I could n't help notice that this question arrived soon after <URL> . While I do n't disagree with the point directly , it is worth noting that many people have gone broke waiting for markets to correct themselves especially with shorts and especially when the government is intervening . While it may cost Mr. Gross very little to work this trade for the average retail investor this trade could be very expensive to put in place and to hold over time .
If some clerk at the bank misses it , you may be able . Technically you should n't be allowed to . All three have to sign .
Demat account does not impact your score . Trading account will impact only if you have taken margin and not paid , unlikely for retail accounts . Having trading and demat account and not using does not impact CIBIL score .
I find it strange that they would actually recommend switching to a SD RSP . Most of the Big 5 banks would be happy to have you blindly invested in their high-fee mutual funds without even making you aware that the self-directed option exists . In my view , there are a few very important things to consider : Would you like your investments to be self-directed ? Would you be able to decide what to invest your money in if you had all the choice that 's offered through a SD RSP ? Would your financial advisor at the bank still be involved ? Only consider answering the question of when you should start looking into switching to one if you have already decided that you would like to switch to one . If you would like to have a SD RSP , it might make sense once your invested amount can justify any added commissions and fees you may incur with your new investments . If it 's at a Big 5 bank ( i.e. TD or RBC ) you 're looking at $ 30/trade for stocks and ETFs , and maybe a fee for third-party mutual funds . Are you well-versed with all the products that you can invest in using a self-directed account ? Although I would generally recommend a SD RSP , or even a self-directed TFSA or non-registered account , it would behoove an investor to really be committed to knowing what they 're doing . Without presuming too much about the OP , I would recommend anyone reading this answer to start at a great <URL> . What are all the fees associated with the SD RSP ? Many of the Big 5 banks and other companies charge exorbitant fees . Commission fees notwithstanding , the two major fees that I would be careful about are the annual administration fees and transfer out fees . RBC Direct Investing , for example , <URL> $ 75/yr for RSPs that are less than $ 25000 in value . They also charge an exorbitant $ 135 transfer out fee . Of course , you 'd need to pay that if you decide to switch brokerages since you ca n't just withdraw from bank A and redeposit at bank B without triggering tax consequences . If you really would like a self-directed account , must you stick with your current bank ? Having said all this , I think that there are other brokerages out there that should be evaluated apart from the Big 5 banks should you choose to go this route , particularly if one has less than $ 25000 invested . A good starting point is at a <URL> , which includes a table of many Canadian discount brokerages . The irony would be staggering if you inform your financial advisor at your bank that you have decided to take their advice and open a SD RSP , but somewhere else . Best of success with your RRSP , whatever you decide to do . If you would like me to elaborate further on any of these points , please post a comment and I 'll do what I can .
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
I find it best to go to <URL> ( i.e. the company that operates the fund , in this case Vanguard ) : Extended Market ETF 0.16 %
For public US companies listed on an exchange , they must follow SEC guidelines . Thus , their financial statements will be prepared under US GAAP . To answer your question , yes , if the cost is over their capitalization policy amount , it must be capitalized and depreciated . Under GAAP there are several options for depreciation , such as straight line and unit-of-production . The choice is always disclosed in the footnotes of the 10-K . Ideally the company would choose a method that resembles the actual depreciation of the asset most closely so the statements are more reliable .
The <URL> , as well as all other exchanges , provide historical trade data . Most provide <URL> . Third parties often collect data and provide it for cheaper prices , but the data can not be guaranteed to be complete or accurate . All trades can be exported in real time from a data feed ; however , some minor exchanges will not provide clearing agent information until after the close to provide for more anonymous trading . Major exchanges provide clearing agent information in their data feeds . Interactive Brokers gives a transaction history limited by some time with the same data as above except possibly the clearing agent .
In my opinion , subtenant B should pay 1/4 of the utilities . Each person consumes 1/4 of the utilities . Normally , each person would pay 1/4 of the utilities . However , Subtenant A has an agreement with the two co-tenants that he does n't have to pay for utilities ( it is included in his rent ) . This means that the co-tenants get the rent , but need to pay for his share of the utilities . Subtenant B was not part of that agreement . He does n't receive any of the rent money from Subtenant A , so he should n't have to pay for any of Subtenant A 's portion of the utilities . Here is how I would divide up the utility bill : Subtenant B pays 1/4 . Subtenant A pays 0 . Each co-tenant pays 3/8 . ( 1/4 for his own share , plus half of Subtenant A 's share )
The benefit of multiple accounts - You might wish to have more beneficiary combinations than one account form will permit . You wish to buy a fund that 's part of a different broker 's free offering . If held in banks where the FDIC insurance limits might be an issue , separate banks might make sense . I 'll edit ( and invite others to ) if I think of others , but Dilip 's answer , ' no ' is correct . Taxwise , no benefit .
Single biggest difference will be the interest rate is locked in - if the rate for savings accounts goes down it wont affect you . Given how low the current savings account rates are , it seems unlikely they will go lower , but there are no guarantees .
There are a few reasons , particularly for businesses . The first is opportunity cost . That chunk of money they have could be used to get higher returns somewhere else . If they can borrow from a bank at low interest rates to finance their ongoing operations , they can use their cash to get a higher return somewhere else . The second is credit rating . For public companies , ratings companies give high emphasis to companies with large reserves . This strengthens their ability to pay back the loan should it become necessary . A good credit rating in turn let 's the company borrow money at lower rates . When a company can borrow money at low rates , it circles back to the first point where they can now put their reserves to better use . The third is leverage . Companies can use the cash they have built up to leverage into a larger investment . Assuming the investment works out , it will pay for the cost of borrowing over time . For instance let 's say I have $ 1 million to invest . I can pay all cash for a $ 1 million apartment building or I can leverage that into a $ 3 million building . Assuming I run it well , the tenants will pay for the cost of borrowing $ 2 million and at the end of the term I 'll be left with my $ 3 million building .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
There are some gadgets , but they are pretty pricey . One is here : energymonitor.com and the other here : theenergydetective.com/index.html The second one is pretty cool because it can connect to your computer wirelessly and create a database of your usage that you can access , view trends , etc. . But they are still pretty expensive and it may be a better idea to just watch your consumption by hand , ie turn off lights when you leave rooms , turn off the TV and computers , do n't leave the fridge door open and get everything you need from the fridge at once . As for water , there are gadgets that help there too , and arent very pricey . I got a low flow showerhead with additional features that help reserve water and heating costs . I reviewed the device here : <URL>
You could purchase Home Equity Insurance . Here is a paper by Robert Shiller and Allan Weiss about how it would work : <URL> . Sadly this type of protection is hard to find .
end question
start question
How do I minimize the risk of my investment losing value ?
I would say a diversified conservative balanced fund ( perhaps 80 % bonds , the rest equities ) . This historically keeps up with inflation , though in the short term it can definitely fluctuate downward some years . The more diversification the better , say into international stocks and other major asset classes . The 80/20 average historical annual return is 6.7 % nominal ( before inflation ) , which is higher than historical inflation : <URL> Bonds alone would generally be less reliable than bonds plus 10-20 % in stocks . You may be able to go as much as 90 % bonds if the goal is absolute minimum risk . I 've read in more than one place that 100 % bonds averages lower returns with more risk than 90/10 , so 100 % bonds would be an inferior option historically , compared to diversifying just a bit into equities . You could argue that TIPS ( or other inflation-indexed bonds ) are the guaranteed way to beat inflation with no additional risk . I would personally feel more comfortable with a balanced portfolio diversified across thousands of stocks and bonds around the world : TIPS are country-specific , and however remote the chances , there are probably risk factors unique to US government securities while I do n't subscribe to conspiracy theories about the consumer price index ( CPI ) , it is in some ways arbitrary and its definition of inflation may not line up with your actual expenses ; a diversified portfolio avoids " inflation definition risk " a bit more perhaps because an 80/20 portfolio does a little better than inflation historically , maybe you have some more margin for error You can always keep some money in cash or near-cash ( very short-term bonds ) , in addition to the balanced portfolio , to lower risk and returns down to the desired point . Commodities and metals often come up when talking about inflation risk ; the problem is that these are so volatile , you 'll have big timing problems - if you buy at a wrong ( too high ) time you could wait decades to get your principal back . So I do n't think these make sense for the goal you described . See also <URL>
You do n't need to notify the IRS of new members , the IRS does n't care ( at this stage ) . What you do need , if you have a EIN for a single-member LLC , is <URL> since your LLC is now a partnership ( a different entity , from IRS perspective ) . From now on , you 'll need to file form 1065 with the IRS in case of business related income , on which you will declare the membership distribution interests on Schedules K-1 for each member .
Is there something else I need to be thinking about here ? I 'm assuming that I will not have to pay capital gains tax on the profit from the sale because I 'm putting it into another investment property . Is this correct ? No . You 're talking about <URL> . It would be correct if you would be buying a new , similar , investment property ( you 'd be deferring the tax , not " not paying " it ) . But in this case that is not what you 're doing . You 'll have to pay the capital gains tax on the profit . For the 1031 exchange the new property has to be acquired with relation to the disposition of the old property , and within the certain period of time ( 180 days , if I remember correctly ) . Had it been your primary residence for more than 2 years in the last 5 , you might have been able to use <URL> , in which case you would not be paying tax on the excluded gains ( which is way better than deferring ... ) . Since you updated the question saying you moved out in 2007 , its not relevant for you anymore . Adding to @mhoran_psprep 's point : since it has been a rental for the last several years , you will also have a " depreciation recapture " - a situation where the IRS will tax a deduction you made ( or could have made ) for depreciation of your property . Since you can not depreciate your primary residence - the recapture can not be excluded as part of the primary residence exclusion , so on this part you will have to pay taxes . Note that this is not capital gain , and the recapture rates are different ( 25 % if I remember correctly ) . You should discuss it with your tax adviser - a EA or a CPA licensed in your state .
Margin interest is deductible on Sch A . So my first warning is that if you do n't itemize , the deduction is lost . Assuming you already itemize , it adds to your itemized deductions . If your gains are short term , they are taxed at your regular rate , i.e. your marginal rate same as earned income . If your return is higher than the margin rate , you are in the black . If bounced off long term gains , the numbers change slightly , as the gain may be taxed 15 % , but your margin interest is offset 25 % , for example . My comment question was to try to understand the intent . A 10 % margin rate is certainly a deal killer . I have a 2.5 % equity line , and am not considering using it to buy stocks despite the 10 % long term gains in the market . In your case , a 20 % drop would cost you 40 % of your equity . Buying on margin is not recommended for most investors , let alone those just learning .
No . ETFs that invest in commodities and grantor trusts ( HOLDRs ) are not covered by the Investment Company Act of 1940 . The prospectus usually states this in the risks section . For example , the GLD ETF 's prospectus says : Shareholders do not have the protections associated with ownership of shares in an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or the protections afforded by the CEA . As a buyer , you need to understand what you are buying . Some " ETFs " are n't really ETFs at all ... I 'd suggest reading <URL> as a starting place .
Yes . Depending on which way they are going this is known as a redemption or a creation . In fact , it 's not just the ETF company than can do this . There are other entities known as " authorized participants " who can do this at will . This is the reason that the ETF tracks the underlying basket . When it deviates , that creates an arbitrage opportunity for the authorized participants , which they will take once it reaches a level to cover their transactions costs .
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increases , economies that are oil dependent become more favourable ( oil companies will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investors will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
A 15 % discount is a 17.6 % return . ( 100/85 = 1.176 ) . For a holding period that 's an average 15.5 days , a half month . It would be silly to compound this over a year as the numbers are limited . The safest way to do this is to sell the day you are permitted . In effect , you are betting , 12 times a year , that the stock wo n't drop 15 % in 3 days . You can pull data going back decades , or as long as your company has been public , and run a spreadsheet to see how many times , if at all , the stock has seen this kind of volatility over 3 day periods . Even for volatile stocks , a 15 % move is pretty large , you 're likely to find your stock doing this less than once per year . It 's also safest to not accumulate too many shares of your company for multiple reasons , having to do with risk spreading , diversification , etc. . 2 additional points - the Brexit just caused the S&amp;P to drop 4 % over the last 3 days trading . This was a major world event , but , on average we are down 4 % . One would have to be very unlucky to have their stock drop 15 % over the specific 3 days we are discussing . The dollars at risk are minimal . Say you make $ 120K/yr . $ 10K/month . 15 % of this is $ 1500 and you are buying $ 1765 worth of stock . The gains , on average are expected to be $ 265/mo . Does n't seem like too much , but it 's $ 3180 over a years ' time . $ 3180 in profit for a maximum $ 1500 at risk at any month 's cycle .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
If you 're looking for some formula , I do n't think one exists . People talk about this all the time and give conflicting advice . If there was a proven-accurate formula , they would n't be debating it . There are basically 3 reasons to do a home improvement project : ( a ) Correct a problem so that you prevent on-going damage to your home . For example , have a leaking roof patched or replaced , or exterminate termites . Such a job is worthwhile if the cost of fixing the problem is less than the cost of future damage . In the case of my termite and leaking roof examples , this is almost always worth doing . Lesser maintenance problems might be more debatable . Similarly , some improvements may reduce expenses . Like replacing an old furnace with a newer model may cut your heating bills . Here the question is : how long does it take to repay the investment , compared to other things you might invest your money in . Just to make up numbers : Suppose you find that a new furnace will save you $ 500 per year . If the new furnace costs $ 2000 , then it will take 4 years to pay for itself . I 'd consider that a good investment . If that same $ 2000 furnace will only cut your heating bills by $ 100 per year , then it will take 20 years to pay for itself . You 'd probably be better off putting the $ 2000 into the stock market and using the gains to help pay your heating bill . ( b ) Increase the resale value of your home . If you are paying someone else to do the work , the harsh reality here is : Almost no job will increase the resale value by more than the cost of getting the job done . I 've seen many articles over the years citing studies on this . I think most conclude that kitchen remodeling comes closet to paying for itself , and bathrooms come next . New windows are also up there . I do n't have studies to prove this , but my guesses would be : Replacing something that is basically nice with a different style will rarely pay for itself . Like , replacing oak cabinets with cherry cabinets . Replacing something that is in terrible shape with something decent is more likely to pay back than replacing something decent with something beautiful . Like if you have an old iron bathtub that 's rusting and falling apart , replacing it may pay off . If you have a 5-year-old bathtub that 's in good shape but is not premium , top of the line , replacing it with a premium bathtub will probably do very little for resale value . If you can do a lot of the work yourself , the story changes . Many home improvement jobs do n't require a lot of materials , but do require a lot of work . If you do the labor , you can often get the job done very cheaply , and it 's likely that the increase in resale value will be more than what you spend . For example , most of my house has hardwood floors . Lots of people like pretty hardwood floors . I just restained the floors in two rooms . It cost me , I do n't know , maybe $ 20 or $ 30 for stain and some brushes . I 'm sure if I tried to sell the house tomorrow I 'd get my twenty bucks back in higher sale value . Realtors often advise sellers to paint . Again , if you do it yourself , the cost of paint may be a hundred dollars , and it can increase the sale price of the house by thousands . Of course if you do the work yourself , you have to consider the value of your time . ( c ) To make your home more pleasant to live in . This is totally subjective . You have to make the decision on the same basis that you decide whether anything that is not essential to survival is worth buying . To some people , a bottle of fancy imported wine is worth thousands , even millions , of dollars . Others ca n't tell the difference between a $ 10,000 wine and a $ 15 wine . The thing to ask yourself is , How important is this home improvement to me , compared to other things I could do with the money ? Like , suppose you 're considering spending $ 20,000 remodeling your kitchen . What else could you do with $ 20,000 ? You could buy a car , go on an elaborate vacation , eat out several times a week for years , retire a little earlier , etc. . No one can tell you how much something is worth to you . Any given home improvement may involve a combination of these factors . Like say you 're considering that $ 20,000 kitchen remodeling . Say you somehow find out that this will increase the resale value by $ 15,000 . If the only reason you were considering it was to increase resale value , then it 's not worth it -- you 'd lose $ 5,000 . But if you also want the nicer kitchen , then it is fair to say , Okay , it will cost me $ 20,000 , but ultimately I 'll get $ 15,000 of that back . So in the long run it will only cost me $ 5,000 . Is having a nicer kitchen worth $ 5,000 to me ? Note , by the way , that resale value only matters if and when you sell the house . If you expect to stay in this house for 20 years , any improvements done are VERY long-term investments . If you live in it until you die , the resale value may matter to your heirs .
After more research , I think I 've determined the solution . My actual , 30-page credit report from Experian has a section for " Potentially Negative Items or Items for Further Review " . There is one account in this section -- the one that had a late payment several years ago . This account was also closed 0.5 years before I originally asked this question . So the actual credit report is accurate . The problem is how the Experian website interprets and summarizes the report : when an account with negative information closes ( or maybe even just changes ) , they present it as if that 's the date that the negative information occurred .
It appears that the <URL> in $ 6,500 as long as the combined income is greater than the total contributions for both spouses . Spousal IRAs If you file a joint return , you and your spouse can each make IRA contributions even if only one of you has taxable compensation . The amount of your combined contributions ca n't be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return . It does n't matter which spouse earned the compensation . Examples : Sarah , age 52 , is married with no taxable compensation for 2012 . She and her husband reported taxable compensation of $ 60,000 on their 2013 joint return . Sarah may contribute $ 6,500 to her IRA for 2013 ( $ 5,500 plus an additional $ 1,000 contribution for age 50 and over ) .
They want to know how much your parents make . Just add all two W-2 forms together .
Money you need in less than 5 years should be saved not invested . The only place I would be comfortable the money would be a money market account or Certificate of Deposit ( CD ) . I usually go for the money market account because they pay at or close to CD rates and there are no restrictions on getting to the money . However in this case I might choose a CD to keep me from being tempted to borrow some of it for something else . But even after typing that I still think I would put it in a money market , because if interest rates rise they rise in the money market but not the CD , and I just do n't think interest can go much lower .
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
I think these numbers are very location specific . Those house flipper tv shows loved to toss them out because they make great graphics , but they are nonetheless subjective . The only way I know how to guess the value of your home is to get comps . ( What similar homes in your local region sold for recently , withing a small radius such as a quarter or half mile . ) So to decide your ROI figure out your homes current resale value . Use one of dozens of home price estimators for this . Example 100K house , estimated value after adding a bath $ 120K , but the bathroom cost $ 10K to install . ( 120 / 100 ) - 1 = .2 or 20 % increase in the home value . Increase is $ 20K , but since the bathroom cost $ 10K your ROI is only $ 10k . ( is my math correct ? ) But that does n't tell you what new drapes , or updated carpeting will get you . Since you ca n't measure those numbers in any realistic way , you are stuck relying on the gut of a real estate agent , which is n't mathematical and therefore something I ca n't trust . For the little things , they are items that you would want to just make look and feel nice if you are selling the home . Things I have learned : Avoid Junky Lowes or Home Depot fixtures and parts . If you buy the cheap ones then your home looks like every cruddy apartment building in your city . Hire a pro for things that need to pass inspection Get your permits . Upgrades do n't count if they are n't documented Consider a big picture . I did one room at a time in my house and now the house reflects that . I should have planned the whole house stylewise , even if I only did one thing at a time . Never never never big the best or nicest house on the street . Do n't be the worst , do n't be the best .
Writing off an asset means saying that you assume its value is zero or close to that . For bookkeeping purposes , you 're saying you do n't think you 'll ever get that money back , directly or indirectly . The company collapsed , the project fizzled out , the crop failed ... Writing down an asset means reducing your estimate of its value , but not to zero . You think there is at least some chance the investment will pay off , or at least will have enough assets / value to cover part of what you paid for it , and this number is your current best guess of what it 's actually worth so that can be reported accurately as part of your own net worth . Same idea , just different degrees .
Now that you have a Social Security Number , if you want Bank of America to start reporting to your credit report so that you can establish a credit history , you 'll need to contact Bank of America and ask them to attach your Social Security Number to your account . It might be easiest to do this in person : bring your Social Security card into a Bank of America branch and see if they can help you . Some sources online for more reading : UScreditcardguide.com : <URL> ( Read " Conclusions " section at the end . ) Quora.com : <URL> Dreamact.info forum : <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a benefit , long term , to life insurance for a youngish , debt , and dependent free person ?
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
Box 1 on your w2 is gross pay minus pre-tax deductions , like 401k ( traditional 401ks , not Roth ) , so you are correct with that assumption . With that in mind , it was my experience that the bank only looked at gross pay from my previous two months of paychecks . Double check with a loan officer , but mortgage applications only take gross income into account so a deduction wo n't affect your dti . Also , mortgage apps usually assume that you can liquidate or borrow some large percentage of your 401k to add to your cash on hand for a down payment and closing costs . Something to keep in mind .
Let 's look at some numbers . These are just example rates that I found online . You can substitute your own quotes and compare yourself . I 'm not going to name the company , but these advertised rates are all from one nationally-known company for a 25-year old female . Whole life : $ 78.13 / month for $ 100,000 of coverage . 10-year term : $ 15.00 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 20-year term : $ 15.45 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 30-year term : $ 20.23 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . If you went with the whole life option , you would be paying $ 937.56 per year . The policy builds a cash value ; the amount this grows can vary greatly , and you 'll need to look at the fine print to see how it will grow , but let 's pretend that after 30 years , the cash value of the policy is $ 50,000 ( a reasonable guess , in my opinion ) . Let 's look at what this means : You can cash out your policy , but at that point , you 'll stop paying payments , and your heirs wo n't get your $ 100,000 death benefit . You can borrow against it , but you 'll have to pay it back . You could use it to pay your premium , in which case you 'll stop paying payments . However , keep in mind that if you do pass away , you lose the cash value you 've built up ; your beneficiaries only get the $ 100,000 death benefit . Now let 's look at the term insurance option . We 'll go with the 30-year term . It will only cost you $ 242.76 per year , and the death benefit is more than double the whole life coverage . If you were to take the difference between the two premiums ( $ 58 per month ) and invest it in a mutual fund growing at 8 % per year , you would have $ 86,441 in your account after 30 years . This money is yours ( or your heirs ) , whether or not you pass away before your term is up . After the 30 years is up , your insurance is over , but you are now almost all the way up to the death benefit of the whole life policy anyway . In my opinion , term life insurance is better than whole life for just about everybody . I do n't want to be morbid here , but the earlier someone dies , the more benefit they get with term insurance vs whole life . If someone does have reason to believe that his life expectancy is shorter than average , term insurance makes even more sense , as he is more likely to get the death benefit for much less money in premiums than he would in whole life .
According to the <URL> : any consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report [ ... ] to a person which it has reason to believe [ ... ] intends to use the information in connection with a credit transaction involving the consumer on whom the information is to be furnished and involving the extension of credit to , or review or collection of an account of , the consumer See p12 ( section 604 ) . The usual interpretation of this that I 've heard is that a debt collection agency that owns or has been assigned a debt can make hard pulls on your credit report without your consent . <URL> seems to support that ( and references the same part of the act , among others ) : According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act , [ ... ] , any business can access your credit history without your permission provided the business has a valid " permissible purpose . " The FCRA notes that one such permissible purpose is to review your credit information in connection with the collection of a debt . Thus , if you owe money to a debt collector , the debt collector has the legal right to pull and review your credit report . If they have n't been assigned the debt or own it outright , I believe you have a legal right to dispute it . Consult a lawyer if this is actually a situation you face . Once use for this is if the debt collection agency has trouble locating you ; since your credit report normally contains current and past addresses , this is one way to locate you .
When you say " Currently I have a mix of my own contributions along with this rollover " , do you mean that you have made direct contributions to your Roth IRA ? When withdrawing , the <URL> is that contributions always come out first , then conversions and rollovers , and lastly earnings . So if the amount you withdraw is less than your direct contributions , it will only come out of contributions and not touch the conversion amount . But if you withdraw some of the conversion amount within 5 years of the conversion , there will be a <URL> . The penalty applies to the part of the conversion that was taxable , which was all of the conversion in your case . There is no " principal " or " earnings " within this conversion -- conversions are counted separately from contributions or earnings in the Roth IRA .
It all depends on your priorities , but if it were me I 'd work to get rid of that debt as your first priority based on a few factors : Government student loans are especially difficult to discharge in bankruptcy , so it is a slightly riskier than average type of debt . As I 'm sure you know . Getting a 6.8 % is almost impossible with low risk . You can get an almost guaranteed 6.8 % return on paying down that debt . I might shift towards the house if you think you can save enough to avoid PMI , as the total savings would probably be more in aggregate if you plan on buying a house anyway with less than 20 % down . Of course , all this is lower priority than funding your retirement at least up to the tax advantaged and/or employer matched maximums , but it sounds like you have that covered .
Generally speaking , each year , mutual funds distribute to their shareholders the dividends that are earned by the stocks that they hold and also the net capital gains that they make when they sell stocks that they hold . If they did not do so , the money would be income to the fund and the fund would have to pay taxes on the amount not distributed . ( On the other hand , net capital losses are held by the fund and carried forward to later years to offset future capital gains ) . You pay taxes on the amounts of the distributions declared by the fund . Whether the fund sold a particular stock for a loss or a gain ( and if so , how much ) is not the issue ; what the fund declares as its distribution is . This is why it is not a good idea to buy a mutual fund just before it makes a distribution ; your share price drops by the per-share amount of the distribution , and you have to pay taxes on the distribution .
Is there a word for that $ 20k owed ? Trade Receivables , Accounts Receivables , or just Receivables Is there a different word for that $ 30k " hypothetical " total ? Current Assets ( Includes Inventory and other short term assets )
The problem with daily-rebalanced " inverse " or " leveraged " ETFs is that since they rebalance every day , you can lose money even if your guess as to the market 's direction is correct . Quoting from <URL> : How can this apparent breakdown between longer term index returns and ETF returns happen ? Here 's a hypothetical example : let 's say that on Day 1 , an index starts with a value of 100 and a leveraged ETF that seeks to double the return of the index starts at $ 100 . If the index drops by 10 points on Day 1 , it has a 10 percent loss and a resulting value of 90 . Assuming it achieved its stated objective , the leveraged ETF would therefore drop 20 percent on that day and have an ending value of $ 80 . On Day 2 , if the index rises 10 percent , the index value increases to 99 . For the ETF , its value for Day 2 would rise by 20 percent , which means the ETF would have a value of $ 96 . On both days , the leveraged ETF did exactly what it was supposed to do -- it produced daily returns that were two times the daily index returns . But let 's look at the results over the 2 day period : the index lost 1 percent ( it fell from 100 to 99 ) while the 2x leveraged ETF lost 4 percent ( it fell from $ 100 to $ 96 ) . That means that over the two day period , the ETF 's negative returns were 4 times as much as the two-day return of the index instead of 2 times the return . That example is for " just " leveraging 2x in the same direction . Inverse funds have the same kind of issue . An example from <URL> says that over 12/31/2007 to 12/31/2010 , The Vanguard 500 index fund lost $ 846 . ProShares Ultra S&amp;P ( SSO ) , the 2X ETF for the same index lost . But it did n't lose just twice as much as VFINX , it lost over four times as much -- $ 4,050 . ProShares UltraShort S&amp;P ( SDS ) , the 2X short ETF ( -2 X , gains if benchmark drops ) which should have earned a profit , lost even more -- $ 4,595 . The funds do exactly what they say on any given day . But any losses get " locked in " each day . While normally a 50 % loss needs a 100 % gain to get back to a starting point , a fund like this needs more than a 100 % gain to get back to its starting point . The result of these funds across multiple days does n't match the index it 's matching over those several days , and you wo n't make money over the long term . Do look at the further examples at the links I 've referenced above , or do your own research into the performance of these funds during time periods both when the market is going up and going down . Also refer to these related and/or duplicate questions : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would start with long term data . It would show how 40 years worth of stock investing puts the investor so far ahead of the " safe " investor that they can afford to lose half and still be ahead . But - then I would explain about asset allocation , and how the soon to be retired person had better be properly allocated if they were n't all along so that the impact of down years is mitigated . The retiree is still a long term investor as life spans of 90 are common . Look at the long term charts for the major indexes . So long as you average in , reinvest earnings ( dividends ) and stay diversified , you will be ahead . The market is still not where it was at the end of 2001 , but in the decade , our worth has risen from 5X our income to 12.5 X . This was not genius , just a combination of high savings and not panicking .
Maybe According to nolo.com , you can claim your partner as a dependent <URL> . Support : You must provide 50 % of the support for the dependent partner . Citizenship : They must be a U.S. citizen or legal resident alien . Income : Their taxable income must be below $ 3900 ( in 2013 , up to $ 3950 in ' 14 ) -- it 's equal to the exemption amount -- and you 'll have to see whether the disability payments are taxable . Relationship : You can only claim them as a dependent if " the relationship does not violate local law " . Nolo.com notes that such laws have been struck down recently where they 've been challenged , so this soon may be no longer relevant . Marriage status : You ca n't claim a spouse as a legal dependent .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
To start , I hope you are aware that the properties ' basis gets stepped up to market value on inheritance . The new basis is the start for the depreciation that must be applied each year after being placed in service as rental units . This is not optional . Upon selling the units , depreciation is recaptured whether it 's taken each year or not . There is no rule of thumb for such matters . Some owners would simply collect the rent , keep a reserve for expenses or empty units , and pocket the difference . Others would refinance to take cash out and leverage to buy more property . The banker is not your friend , by the way . He is a salesman looking to get his cut . The market has had a good recent run , doubling from its lows . Right now , I 'm not rushing to prepay my 3.5 % mortgage sooner than it 's due , nor am I looking to pull out $ 500K to throw into the market . Your proposal may very well work if the market sees a return higher than the mortgage rate . On the flip side I 'm compelled to ask - if the market drops 40 % right after you buy in , will you lose sleep ? And a fellow poster ( @littleadv ) is whispering to me - ask a pro if the tax on a rental mortgage is still deductible when used for other purposes , e.g. a stock purchase unrelated to the properties . Last , there are those who suggest that if you want to keep investing in real estate , leverage is fine as long as the numbers work . From the scenario you described , you plan to leverage into an already pretty high ( in terms of PE10 ) and simply magnifying your risk .
It 's not so much about time but about intent . If your intent is to move there permanently , it would be when you arrive in the state for the purposes of living there ( i.e. not from a while before that when you went to check a place out or for an interview ) . I believe that most ( if not all ) states expect you to get a Driver 's License from that state within 30-days of moving there . Something like a Driver 's License or State ID would be proof of your residency . These things vary greatly from state to state , so you 'd have to research particular states . Or find someone who 's done that already . A bit of searching , specifically for Texas , brought me to this <URL> : If you / he wish to establish residency here -- here being Texas -- get a Texas Driver 's License and Voter Registration here . Government issued ID with a Texas address is pretty much bulletproof defense against being found to be a resident of elsewhere . Your battle , if there is one , will not be with Texas , but with your present home of record state and/or local government if there are income taxes associated with having been a resident there during the tax year . Which brings up the other question : You would need to make sure that California does not have some provision that would cause you issues . ( This is n't so much a case of income from a company in the state as it about capital gains , but it is still prudent to check . )
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
There seems to be a bit of confusion here . Let me answer as if the 2011 estate tax exemption amount is back to $ 1M . It 's just you and the kid . Your total worth when you pass on is $ 500K plus you own that $ 1M policy with your son as beneficiary . The estate is valued at $ 1.5 M and tax is due on $ 500K . What matters is who owned the policy , not who the beneficiary is . As the kids get older , you are best off transferring ownership ( even if the policies are term ) and gifting them money to pay the premium . This avoids the convoluted plans you may have read about . Your question helps exemplify why the changing estate tax laws are so difficult . 2009 the exemption was so high , my wife and I had nothing to worry about . Next year , it 's easy to go over . The very simple answer is " yes , if you own the policy , it 's part of your estate for tax purposes . "
I 'm suspicious of a universal life policy being cheaper than an equivalent term life policy . This may be true for a single vendor with odd pricing , but not for the industry as a whole . Basically , Universal Life = Term Life + something else That something else , whether it is savings , investment , extra perks , etc. costs something and therefore must be more expensive . Is the insurance portion of the universal life policy a fixed rate ? Or are you paying less now and more later ( just for the insurance portion ) . Have you gotten term quotes from other insurance agents ? The easiest place I 've found to do that online is <URL> . Personal experience : I had a universal life policy . They itemized the insurance cost as $ 20 per month and my monthly payment was $ 100 . After 3 years , I ended the policy and got none of the cash value due to various fees totaling more than my contributions of $ 2880 .
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
No , at least not noticeably so . The majority of what HFT does is to take advantage of the fact that there is a spread between buy and sell orders on the exchange , and to instantly fill both orders , gaining relatively risk-free profit from some inherent inefficiencies in how the market prices stocks . The end result is that intraday trading of the non-HFT nature , as well as speculative short-term trading will be less profitable , since HFT will cause the buy/sell spread to be closer than it would otherwise be . Buying and holding will be ( largely ) unaffected since the spread that HFT takes advantage of is miniscule compared to the gains a stock will experience over time . For example , when you go to buy shares intending to hold them for a long time , the HFT might cost you say , 1 to 2 cents per share . When you go to sell the share , HFT might cost you the same again . But , if you held it for a long time , the share might have doubled or tripled in value over the time you held it , so the overall effect of that 2-4 cents per share lost from HFT is negligible . However , since the HFT is doing this millions of times per day , that 1 cent ( or more commonly a fraction of a cent ) adds up to HFTs making millions . Individually it does n't affect anyone that much , but collectively it represents a huge loss of value , and whether this is acceptable or not is still a subject of much debate !
end question
start question
Do credit card companies start to spam me like crazy after I applied for a credit card and got rejected ?
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Assuming I pay them down completely , and then destroy the card or account , what 's the catch ? For you it is not so good because it will grow your credit report enormously . It will also affect the score : each new account opened , each new inquiry - reduce your score . The more of those and the more frequent they are - the deeper the dip . So the promoters know ( assume , rather ) that you would not do that , as it will harm you ( in short term ) and eventually will drive you out of the range that they accept . At some point if you continue doing this - you will no longer be approved . It seems to me those companies are betting me that I 'll lose self control and use their cards . Not necessarily . It is not in your best interest to get the card and then cancel it , so this means that a rational person will not cut up the card so quickly ( especially if it 's a no-fee card ) , and since it stays in the wallet it is likely to be used . For the reward cards that do have fees , they add benefits to compensate you for these fees . For example , airline cards allow getting free/heavily discounted tickets , free luggage , free lounge access etc. . You might want to consider keeping the card for these benefits despite the fees , and the benefits are virtually no-cost to provide . So again , they make you keep the card and since you already have it - it will occasionally be used . If you lose control and use it extensively , they 'll benefit from the interest . If not - they 'll just get the charge fees . Either way , they 'll earn something . Is that all there is to it , or is there some sort of security behind the scenes ( credit report ? ) preventing me from exploiting all the rewards I can ? As I said , doing this too often will lead to the credit card issuers to not approve your applications . Also , many times the sign-up bonuses are for new clients , which means you can not be an existing client , and also an ex-client who recently left them ( IIRC usually they look back at least 6 months in these cases ) . There are not so many card issuers , so you may find yourself blacked out by the virtue of being too recent ex-customer and thus not eligible .
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
New legislation in the US aims to protect young borrowers . ( Just what you were hoping ! ) See Title III <URL> . My understanding of the new law is that individuals 18 to 20 years old applying for a credit card are required to either 1 ) have a parent/guardian co-sign , 2 ) prove they could independently repay the credit being offered , or 3 ) take a special financial education course for young consumers . It also requires parent ( or legal guardian , spouse , etc ) approval for a credit limit increase on a card that is co-signed by that parent , etc. .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
It is not delayed and if it did n't show yet - will not show on that agency 's credit report . However , you may find it on another agency 's report . There are three major agencies , and creditors do n't always check all of them ( each inquiry costs them money ) .
Here in the UK it 's certainly possible . We call it stoozing . The basic steps are Get a credit card with a long 0 % period for purchases and a savings account with as high a rate as possible . Do your regular shopping on the credit card , make minimum payments each month Put the money you would normally spend on your regular shopping into the high rate savings account instead . At the end of the 0 % period either pay the card off in full or get a suitable card and do a balance transfer . Get a new spending card ( may be the same one as the balance transfer card but you often get better deals with seperate cards ) . <URL> I guess people get away with this because the number of people with the skills/diligance to do it right and who can be bothered with the hassle is fairly small .
PC MasterCard recently added this as a new feature to their online system . It lets you see " Pending Authorizations " for your card when you log in . Their email said : Along with your purchases , you 'll see a list of every transaction that 's been approved , but not yet applied to your balance . You 'll be able to identify these with the word " Pending " in the date column . Here 's a link with more information : <URL>
In the case of WhatsApp they probably use revenue from the apple affiliate program , this is how it works : After you sign up and are accepted you can generate links . When someone clicks on the link a cookie is installed on their iDevice , this cookie attributes all purchaces generated to the owner of the affiliate link for the life of the cookie ( 24 hours ) . The owner will then recive a 7 % commission on those purchaces .
They claim they can help you build your credit score Able to get one will n't build your credit score but the usage will . The usage of a debit card / credit card / bank card helps building up a profile of yours with the tracking of how you use credit . Considering that citizens who have had a credit record , loose all of it when they are out of UK after a certain period ( not exactly sure how long ) , that is why Britishers who have been living abroad for quite long run into troubles with credit institutions because of non existent records . Did you read this part of their website where they mention how the credit record is built ? Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd ( APS ) lends you a limited fixed amount which goes towards paying for all or part of a year 's use of the account , interest-free . The loan is paid to Advanced Payment Solutions Financial Limited ( AFL ) , so no money changes hands and it 's never available to spend Just repay the loan with 12 small monthly installments and we 'll pass on your payment history to the credit reference agencies Make all your monthly payments on time and you 'll have shown that you can manage credit responsibly Just seems like a way to play around the rules , but not illegal . So primarily they push your score up by showing you have used their credit responsibly . And if your brother works he can get a no frills account from one of the high street banks , which is a more better option .
You should n't be charged interest , unless possibly because your purchases involve a currency conversion . I 've made normal purchases that happened to involve changes in currency . The prices were quoted in US$ to me . On the tail end , though , the currency change was treated as a cash advance , which accrues interest immediately .
These are similar but one outcome is easier to manager first : Hard Pull does negatively effect credit slightly ( " new credit " on that chart ) second : A lower credit utilization ratio ( " amounts owed " on the chart ) increases your credit greater than a hard pull does . In both scenarios ( getting a new card vs increase on an existing card ) , if approved , you will have a lower credit utilization ratio , thereby increasing your credit if you keep that ratio low and pay minimums . But if you just keep one card , and that card has a higher limit , then you will have more flexibility on the size of purchases you can make without effecting your utilization ratio . Making the option of a credit increase on an existing card easier to manage . It is also more likely to get approved for a greater credit increase on an existing card than getting approved for a new card . ( ie . its more likely you may get a store-specific nonvisa/nonmastercard/nonamericanexpress card , or a card with a low limit ) . So if you want to take chances with your hard pulls , know what you are more likely to get instead of wasting a hard pull .
If you have an AMEX from another country , you can get an AMEX in the US . American Express has a separate system that is not as strongly country-dependent as , say , VISA and MasterCard . Equifax operates in both Canada and the United States , so if you 're from Canada you can ask the bank to get your credit score through Equifax . Not a lot of people know about this but it can be done , so be persistent if they say it ca n't . This may be possible with other credit reporting agencies as well . If you have proof of income and some cash , most banks will let you get a card . They let teenagers with no credit get a card !
However , I did this before and it is a city owned unattended machine . Someone could have placed a <URL> on the machine that captures your credit card information . The fact that the machine is unattended makes this a definite possibility . This could have been done since the last time you used it without the city or any users catching on . This could also occur at a gas station , which you mentioned you had visited in the last few weeks . If you used your card online , check the news or the company 's website to make sure the site was n't compromised . Also , talk to your bank about when the charges were made . The theft could have occurred shortly before that . However , it 's also conceivable that your information was stolen a while ago and only recently used . Have you used your credit card online from a public computer/wi-fi network or over an unencrypted connection ? If not , have you logged into other accounts that use the same account information or could possibly expose your credit card details if those accounts were comprised ? Some people store financial information in their email , so this is another avenue for your information to be compromised . If you receive financial statements or documents with other personal information on them in paper form , do you shred them thoroughly or burn them before disposing of them ? Regardless of how " swanky " your community might be , there are people who will look through trash to find such information . Arguably , a more upscale community would be more vulnerable to this because an identity thief knows there is more information available there . Otherwise , it can be very difficult to pinpoint exactly when/where your information was compromised . I know it 's not the answer you want to hear , but unfortunately , finding the exact time/location of the theft may be impossible .
You should cut it up and discard it , as it is useless . Future reward cards do n't need old cards to add balances to . The physical card has no cost to the giver , and once empty , is of no value to you .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
My understanding is this is considered a " rebate . " I view the cash reward as recovering part of the merchant fee charged for the use of my card . It 's not income because it 's my own money . Now , when I use the card for business items that I 'm reimbursed from my employer 100 % , in theory those rebates should be taxed , in practice , there 's no tracking . Note - I am in the US . My current card gives me 2 % back , up to $ 1500/yr . This goes into a 529 account ( A college savings account ) which as of mid-2015 passed $ 26,000 in value .
end question
start question
What else can I do aside from my job to accumulate wealth ?
Great question . There are two ways to increase the amount of money you have : Increase your income Decrease your expenses It 's difficult to decrease your expenses past a certain point , and your question is focused on the first aspect anyway . But it 's worth noting that controlling spending is a significant part of accumulating wealth . You need to make more money , and there 's no trick to it . Ask for a raise , sure , that ca n't hurt . But also think about what you need to do to get a higher-paying job . There 's a lot to think about : Does you current job have growth potential ? Are you doing everything you can do to maximize that potential ? If you 're just phoning it in and collecting your paycheck , that 's not going to make you much more money . But if you 're working hard , learning new skills , and have an opportunity to grow into more responsibilities and more money , that 's a good start . In my experience , the biggest paycheck increases have come from looking for new opportunities and switching jobs . ( BTW , I 'm not suggesting quitting your job . You need to always have the new job locked up before quitting the old job ! ) The wealthiest people I know are self-employed , and they worked hard to build up their companies . Do you work in an industry where you can build your skills to a point where you can go out on your own ? Does entrepreneurship interest you ? Either way , focus on your job , skills , and maximizing your income potential . Be your own advocate . Make sure your boss knows what a good job you 're doing . If you need to start looking for other options , take your time and start looking . The often-quoted line , " the harder I work , the luckier I get " is appropriate .
First off , the basics on HST/GST : You do n't need to collect HST , if you do n't want to , until you hit 30k in a particular three month period ( assuming you 're not regularly passing $ 30k ) . You then need to collect on the sale that takes you over $ 30k plus all sales after that . See <URL> for example : [ B ] usiness goes through the roof , generating more than $ 30,000 in one particular three-month period . In this case , the day the sale goes through that took you over that $ 30,000 threshold becomes the day you cease to be a small supplier . You must charge GST/HST on the sale that put you over the $ 30,000 limit , and on all sales after that , even if you are not yet registered . You now have 29 days to register with the government . Alternately , if you hit 30k over four three-month periods ( i.e. , a year ) , then you are exempt until the end of that fourth three-month period , after which you must register and collect HST the month after : [ R ] evenues in excess of $ 30,000 during four ( or fewer ) previous , consecutive three-month periods . You will be considered to be a small supplier for those four calendar three-month periods , plus the next month . Your first sale after that additional month , and all sales thereafter , will have to include GST/HST . You will have 29 days from the first day of the second month to register . However , many businesses do collect HST/GST even under that limit , in particular as it means you can collect tax refunds for your input HST/GST paid . If you do so , then you simply register from the start , and then you do n't need to worry about it . You do need to remit those taxes collected , though . If you do n't remit , you wo n't be able to collect tax rebates for your input HST/GST . You decide to become a GST/HST registrant when you start your business . You expect to exceed the $ 30,000 threshold at some time in the near future . You also want to receive any GST/HST paid back from the government on all expenditures especially those high startup costs . And , as <URL> recommends : In most cases , it 's generally a good idea to register for GST/HST as soon as your business is established . Provided that your business makes ( or will make ) taxable or zero-rated supplies , early registration ensures that GST/HST paid on costs incurred is recoverable since tax paid prior to registration is generally not recoverable except on the purchase of inventory , capital property and prepaid services still on hand at the time of registration . Be sure to register early because , in many situations , registering late can result in the loss of recoverable GST paid before registration .
There are two questions : how long do you have to keep some records for tax purposes . is there a danger if bank information from a closed account is found . Looking only at the second question . The information on a typical bank statement will include name , account number , address , balances . It could even contain information about other accounts if intra-bank or inter-bank transfers were done . This information can be enough for some unsavory people to tap info your credit history or to open new credit accounts . I have seen several web based systems for new credit cards where they tap into your credit history and ask you which bank was yours when you lived in city x . They give you 5 to pick from . Knowing the answer cuts down on guessing . Over time this information becomes less useful but there is a window where it is still usable . Since the bank account has not been closed yet the window of usability is n't even close to being closed . The most prudent way to get rid of the documents is by shredding , either using your own shredder or with a service .
I have been a private tutor on and off for about 30 years , in three countries , so I understand your concerns ! I always kept records as though it was a real business - even if I only had one student I kept records of dates/times/names , and also tracked where the money went ( I never spent it straight up - it always got deposited to complete the paper trail ; yes , this is paranoia on my part ) . I 've never been asked to prove anything with regards this income ( although I have no Canadian experience ) . It 's always been a case of tell the tax folks and make sure my arse is covered if they come asking questions . Hope this helps .
Major costs are depreciation , fuel , interest on any loan , insurance ( liability , collision and perhaps health ) , parking , maintenance ( scheduled maintenance such as oil changes and unforeseen repairs ) , and taxes ( including tax on purchase and each of the above items ) . If you drive a lot in a large city you 'll probably accidentally break various rules from time to time ( eg . be a few minutes late getting back to the parking meter or making an illegal left turn because of a day/time combination , or missing a complex parking sign limitation ) , and be subject to fines , towing and impoundment fees , and/or the cost of fighting tickets . In some areas you may have to pay an annual fee to park on the street in front of your own property . If you have to buy a parking space at a condo that may be tens of thousands of dollars and some maintenance fees ( though it will usually be a reasonable investment ) . Even if you have insurance , you may elect to pay small amounts ( up to a couple thousand dollars perhaps ) to avoid making claims that could make your insurance increase . Oil changes , wiper fluid , car washes , tires , detailing ( sort of a deep cleaning ) , diesel DEF fluid , and such like can add up , particularly if you go with expensive synthetic oil replaced at the dealer , ( say ) BMW washer fluid rather than the generic stuff etc. if you do your own washing at home there is an industry devoted to separating you from your money for cleaning products . As others have said - toll roads and toll bridges and associated fees ( video toll fees or transponder fees ) . Insurance , especially for new drivers or drivers with a spotty record can be extremely expensive . Some places require regular emissions or roadworthiness tests in order to maintain registration ( which in itself has an annual cost , sometimes related to the tyoe of vehicle ) . On the more frivolous side , you may be tempted to buy all manner of accessories , from the practical such as car chargers for your phone and GPS to antlers , eyelashes for the headlights , stick figures advertising your family situation , sports flags etc. . In some cultures a doohickey of some kind hanging from the rear view mirror or an air freshener is de rigueur . Some of these may not be directly applicable in Australia , but most should be . Edit : <URL> is a link to an RAC ( Australia ) list of running costs . For example , given the assumptions they 've made , a medium SUV ( MITSUBISHI OUTLANDER ) is said to have the following costs :
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
You could find a relative in another country who has the ability to receive PayPal , and have them transfer the money to you via Western Union or Hawala .
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
@DJClayworth mentioned the spousal RRSP , and that 's a good option if you are the one with available contribution room and/or you want the tax deduction in your name . But , a spousal RRSP account needs to be separately established . That is , you ca n't contribute to your spouse 's existing regular RRSP account while at the same time using your contribution room and you getting the deduction . The other option not requiring a new account : If your spouse has sufficient contribution room of her own , and you yourself do n't need the tax deduction on your income tax return , there 's another approach : Gift your spouse the money to contribute to her own RRSP . This would require your spouse to have available RRSP contribution room of her own , and your spouse will receive the tax deduction , not you . ( Again , bear in mind that for the HBP , funds need to be in the RRSP for at least 90 days . )
I would advise against " pencil and paper " approach for the following reasons : You should e-file instead of paper filing . Although the IRS provides an option of " <URL> " , there 's no additional benefit there . Software ensures correctness of the calculations . It is easy to make math errors , lookup the wrong table It is easy to forget to fill a line or to click a checkbox ( one particular checkbox on Schedule B cost <URL> ) . Software ask you questions in a " interview " manner , and makes it harder to miss . Software can provide soft copies that you can retrieve later or reuse for amendments and carry-overs to the next year , making the task next time easier and quicker . You may not always know about all the available deductions and credits . Instead of researching the tax changes every year , just flow with the interview process of the software , and they 'll suggest what may be available for you ( lifetime learners credit ? Who knows ) . Software provides some kind of liability protection ( for example , if there 's something wrong because the software had a bug - you can have them fix it for you and pay your penalties , if any ) . It 's free . So why not use it ? As to professional help later in life - depending on your needs . I 'm fully capable of filling my own tax returns , for example , but I prefer to have a professional do it since I 'm not always aware about all the intricacies of taxation of my transactions and prefer to have a professional counsel ( who also provides some liability coverage if she counsels me wrong ... ) . Some things may become very complex and many people are not aware of that ( I 've shared the things I learned here on this forum , but there are many things I 'm not aware of and the tax professional should know ) .
No , you may not deduct the charitable contributions of your children . <URL> : The IRS only allows you to deduct charitable contributions that you personally funded , whether the contribution was made in your name or in someone else 's . If your child or dependent makes a donation to a charity , you are not allowed to claim it as a tax deduction . This is true even if your dependent does not claim the contribution on his own tax return because he opts for the standard deduction rather than itemizing or claims exemption . Now , had you constructed the transaction differently , it 's possible you could 've made the contribution in your child 's name and thus claimed the deduction . Allowance is technically a gift , and if she agrees to forgo allowance in exchange for you making a contribution , well , the IRS ca n't really complain ( though they might try if it were a large amount ! ) . Contributions in the name of someone else , but funded by yourself , are deductible : [ Y ] ou can deduct contributions you make in someone else 's name . So if you donated a certain amount of money to XYZ charity in your child 's name , for example , you would be able to deduct this amount on your taxes , as long as the deduction requirements are met . You will need to keep accurate records of the payment along with the receipt from the organization to prove you financed the donation .
The number of days you could sustain your current lifestyle if you stopped working for money today
Magstripe : No . ( And maybe not even that much . ) Chip : Gods only know , but I doubt it . The purpose of the chip is to provide secure authentication of the card . It has no reason to do more than that .
As far as I know , the answer to this is generally " no . " The closest thing would be to identify the stock transfer company representing the company that you want to hold and buy through them . ( I have held this way , but I do n't know if it 's available on all stocks . ) This eliminates the broker , but there 's still a " middle man " in the transfer company . Note this section from the <URL> Wikipedia article : A public company usually only designates one company to transfer its stock . Stock transfer agents also run annual meetings as inspector of elections , proxy voting , and special meetings of shareholders . They are considered the official keeper of the corporate shareholder records . The decision to have a single transfer company is a practical one , ensuring that there is one entity responsible for recording this data - Hence even if you could buy stock " directly " from the company that you want to own , it would likely still get routed through the transfer company for recording .
Assuming you 're in the US , you can also access CPI for major cities / regions . The US Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) publishes a PDF each month with details on how prices of services , food , and other goods has increased or decreased : <URL>
Unemployment is a state not federal program so it would be important to know what state you are in . For my state , <URL> , it appears that your wife would be eligible : ======= quote ========= Meeting Eligibility Requirements An individual who files for unemployment insurance ( UI ) benefits must meet specific eligibility requirements before benefits can be paid . Individuals must : Have received enough wages during the base period to establish a claim . Be totally or partially unemployed . Be unemployed through no fault of his/her own . Be physically able to work . Be available for work which means to be ready and willing to immediately accept work . Be actively looking for work . Meet eligibility requirements each week benefits are claimed . Be approved for training before training benefits can be paid .
I see four key differences . Usually a bonus is paid as a lump sum at the end of the year -- maybe a calendar year , maybe the anniversary of you starting with the company . I 'll assume this is the case for purposes of discussion . So let 's compare job A , which will pay , say 1000 foobars a month , with job B , which pays 900 foobars a month and a 1200 foobar bonus at the end of the year . In both cases , the total pay is the same : 12,000 foobars for the year . But : One : You do n't get the bonus until the end of the year , so you have to wait for your money . It 's almost always better to get money sooner . Then you can buy that new toy or whatever and enjoy it now rather than waiting . If you have no immediate use for it , you can invest it and make some additional income . Two : If you quit in the middle of the year , you do not get the bonus . No job lasts forever . If a significant percentage of your pay comes as an end-of-year bonus every year , then the year you quit or are laid off , you get zero bonus . So in job A if you leave after 6 months , you get 6,000 foobars . In job B you get only 5,400 . Three : There is often uncertainty about a bonus . It may depend on you meeting certain goals set by the employer , or the company making a certain profit level . Often bonuses are totally at the whim of the boss . I once had a job where I was promised a substantial percentage of my pay as an end-of-year bonus , and when the time came , the boss told me the company was n't doing well and he did n't have the money . You may be promised a bonus your first year , but the next year they give a smaller or no bonus . Etc. . Four : Pay raises are often calculated as a percentage of base pay . Like if the company says that this year everyone will get a 5 % raise , in job A that means an extra 50 foobars a month . In job B it probably means an extra 45 foobars a month . The bonus may or may not be increased . Yes , my example is over-simplified because most companies do n't give a blanket x % raise to everyone . But most companies do have a range : raises this year will be 1 to 3 % or whatever . Even if each employee 's pay is considered on an individual basis with no fixed percentages , the employer tends to think in terms of what percentage raise is appropriate , almost always calculated just on base pay .
Your contributions must come from " compensation " . Quoting <URL> on IRAs , " Generally , compensation is what you earn from working . " So it is unlikely that your stock sale proceeds , if they 're your sole source of income , can be used to fund your IRA . If you do have W-2 income , or self employment income , you can use the proceeds of a stock sale to fund an IRA . The IRS does n't care where the exact dollars that go into the IRA come from , only that you earned ( from working ) at least as much as you contributed .
end question
start question
Roughly how much more is the average salary of London compared to the north and south ?
Trust in the <URL> and if you do n't believe them , then their <URL> which is HM Government . The numbers are regional instead of by city , and are mean averages . For your three areas : London # 29,947 Yorkshire ( including Leeds I believe ) # 20,247 South West England ( which would include Bristol ; but also all of Cornwall ) # 20,954 A more industry specific query might have significantly different results .
When the market is open , the price displayed is the last traded price . If you are using Google then there may be a delay in which you may be seeing the last traded price 15 + minutes ago . Similarly when the market closes , the price you see is the last traded price prior to the close .
Here are a few points to consider : Taxes : As a consultant , you will be responsible for the employer portion of the Social Security and Medicare taxes , and you might have to pay for state unemployment insurance and state disability insurance , as well . Office expenses : As a consultant , you may be required to buy your own laptop , pay for your own software licenses and buy other office-related supplies . For higher-end services , you may be setting up a complete office and even hire your own secretary and other support staff . Benefits : As a consultant , you will be responsible for your own health insurance , retirement plan and other benefits that an employer would ordinarily provide . Education : Your employer will likely pay for books and magazine subscriptions and send you to seminars , in order to keep your skills current ; your client wo n't . Liability : Consultants face certain liabilities that employees do n't , and have to factor the cost of insuring against those risks into their rate . Let 's say you 're a software developer , and your faulty code causes a nuclear plant 's reactor core to overheat and melt down . As an employee , you 'll get fired . As a consultant , you will get sued . Even consultants in low-risk fields can easily shell out thousands of dollars per year for a basic general liability policy . Sales &amp; marketing : Do n't forget that when your contract ends , you will have expenses associated with finding your next client , including the opportunity cost of not getting paid for your services during that time . All these factors contribute to your overhead , which you have to roll into your consulting rate . You should also add a margin of profit -- after all , as you 're in business for yourself , you should be compensated for taking this entrepreneurial risk . If you 're looking for a quick over-the-thumb rule , you can figure that your equivalent consulting rate should be about twice what you would be paid hourly as an employee . Assuming you work 2,000 hours a year , if you would receive a $ 100,000 salary , your hourly rate should be $ 100 . Of course , this is only a very rough guideline . Ultimately , your rate will mostly be influenced by how established you are and how much your services are in demand .
The Federal Trade Commission has a page on <URL> . According to them , under the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ) both the credit reporting agency and the information provider ( credit card company ) are responsible for correcting the error on your credit report . They recommend contacting both in writing , and even have sample letters that you can use . Specifically , when you contact the credit reporting agency in writing , they are required to investigate and get back to you . Since you 've already seen that the accounts are marked as disputed on your credit report , perhaps contacting the credit reporting agencies is unnecessary . But it would n't hurt . At the very least , it might be worth a phone call to the credit reporting agencies to ask them if they need a letter from you . Something else you could try is the FTC 's recently updated <URL> . This allows you to report the identity theft and offers you information on the recommended steps you should take . I do n't know what exactly it does , but I see that " open a fraudulent credit card account " is one of the choices for reporting . Identitytheft.gov also has a <URL> .
Probably the best way to investigate this is to look at an example . First , as the commenters above have already said , the log-return from one period is log ( price at time t/price at time t-1 ) which is approximately equal to the percentage change in the price from time t-1 to time t , provided that this percentage change is not big compared to the size of the price . ( Note that you have to use the natural log , ie . log to the base e -- ln button on a calculator -- here . ) The main use of the log-return is that is a proxy for the percentage change in the price , which turns out to be mathematically convenient , for various reasons which have mostly already been mentioned in the comments . But you already know this ; your actual question is about the average log-return over a period of time . What does this indicate about the stock ? The answer is : if the stock price is not changing very much , then the average log-return is about equal to the average percentage change in the price , and is very easy and quick to calculate . But if the stock price is very volatile , then the average log-return can be wildly different to the average percentage change in the price . Here is an example : the closing prices for Pitchfork Oil from last week 's trading are : 10 , 5 , 12 , 5 , 10 , 2 , 15 . The percentage changes are : -0.5 , 1.4 , -0.58 , 1 , -0.8 , 6.5 ( where -0.5 means -50 % , etc. ) The average percentage change is 1.17 , or 117 % . On the other hand , the log-returns for the same period are -0.69 , 0.88 , -0.88 , 0.69 , -1.6 , 2 , and the average log-return is about 0.068 . If we used this as a proxy for the average percentage change in the price over the whole seven days , we would get 6.8 % instead of 117 % , which is wildly wrong . The reason why it is wrong is because the price fluctuated so much . On the other hand , the closing prices for United Marshmallow over the same period are 10 , 11 , 12 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 . The average percentage change from day to day is 0.073 , and the average log-return is 0.068 , so in this case the log-return is very close to the percentage change . And it has the advantage of being computable from just the first and last prices , because the properties of logarithms imply that it simplifies to ( log ( 15 ) - log ( 10 ) ) / 6 . Notice that this is exactly the same as for Pitchfork Oil . So one reason why you might be interested in the average log-return is that it gives a very quick way to estimate the average return , if the stock price is not changing very much . Another , more subtle reason , is that it actually behaves better than the percentage return . When the price of Pitchfork jumps from 5 to 12 and then crashes back to 5 again , the percentage changes are +140 % and -58 % , for an average of +82 % . That sounds good , but if you had bought it at 5 , and then sold it at 5 , you would actually have made 0 % on your money . The log-returns for the same period do not have this disturbing property , because they do add up to 0 % . What 's the real difference in this example ? Well , if you had bought $ 1 worth of Pitchfork on Tuesday , when it was 5 , and sold it on Wednesday , when it was 12 , you would have made a profit of $ 1.40 . If you had then bought another $ 1 on Wednesday and sold it on Thursday , you would have made a loss of $ 0.58 . Overall , your profit would have been $ 0.82 . This is what the average percentage return is calculating . On the other hand , if you had been a long-term investor who had bought on Tuesday and hung on until Thursday , then quoting an " average return " of 82 % is highly misleading , because it in no way corresponds to the return of 0 % which you actually got ! The moral is that it may be better to look at the log-returns if you are a buy-and-hold type of investor , because log-returns cancel out when prices fluctuate , whereas percentage changes in price do not . But the flip-side of this is that your average log-return over a period of time does not give you much information about what the prices have been doing , since it is just ( log ( final price ) - log ( initial price ) ) / number of periods . Since it is so easy to calculate from the initial and final prices themselves , you commonly wo n't see it in the financial pages , as far as I know . Finally , to answer your question : " Does knowing this single piece of information indicate something about the stock ? " , I would say : not really . From the point of view of this one indicator , Pitchfork Oil and United Marshmallow look like identical investments , when they are clearly not . Knowing the average log-return is exactly the same as knowing the ratio between the final and initial prices .
It 's a form of debt issued by the United States Treasury . As the name implies , a 10-year note is held for 10 years ( after which you get the face value in cash ) , and it pays interest twice per year . It 's being used in the calculator to stand for a readily available , medium-term , nearly risk-free investment , as a means of " discounting " the value that the company gains . The explanation for why the discounting is done can be found on the page you linked . As a Canadian you could use the yield of comparable Canadian treasury securities as quoted by Bank of Canada ( which seem to have had the bottom fall out since the new year ) , although I do n't suppose American notes would be hard for a Canadian investor to come by , so if you wanted to be conservative you could use the US figure as long as it 's higher .
Here 's the explanation from WikiPedia : Britannia gold coins contain one troy ounce of gold and have a face value of # 100 . Gold Britannias also are issued in fractional sizes of one-half , one-quarter , and one-tenth of a troy ounce and with face values of # 50 , # 25 , and # 10 respectively . The sovereign is a gold coin of the United Kingdom , with a nominal value of one pound sterling . Prior to 1932 it was a fully circulating coin within Britain 's then Gold Standard currency . Today it is used as a bullion coin and is sometimes mounted in jewelry . I do n't know how you 'd have a put on something with higher actual value than face , because otherwise the same would be true with the American Eagle $ 20 and $ 50 coins .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
A tax like this means that you pay 75 % on the amount of your income over 1 million Euros . <URL> gives the current rates . So : Income Share Tax Rate Up to $ 6,011 0 % Between $ 6,012 - $ 11,991 5.5 % Between $ 11,992 - $ 26,631 14 % Between $ 26,632 - $ 71,397 30 % Between $ 71,398 - $ 151,200 41 % Above $ 151,200 45 % So if you are earning $ 1000001 , you would pay the same tax as someone earning $ 1000000 , plus an extra 75c . All income taxes work this way .
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
It depends on how much equity you have in your home . Scenario 1 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 100K ( or more which means you are underwater . ) In this case you ca n't get a 2nd mortgage because : It 's not legal to use the same collateral ( e.g. some or all of your house ) for multiple loans without all parties knowing about it . If you let the parties know , then whoever is not first in line to receive the collateral certainly wo n't agree to it , since the collateral is not yours to use . ( The existing mortgage would already have legal claim to it . ) You could n't do it even if you tried because any real bank will do a title search to discover if you are trying to do this , before giving you any money . That being said , you can use different portions of equity in your home as collateral for multiple mortgages , as long as none of the equity overlaps , but you may need permission from the primary mortgage bank first , for example : Scenario 2 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 80K meaning you currently have $ 20K in equity . It is possible to get a 2nd mortgage or home equity line of credit for $ 20K . As a side note , if your loan agent is telling you to use a different bank , it sounds like she is trying ( and willing ) to do something shady . If you are in Scenario 1 , I 'd find a new agent .
I had a <URL> when I graduated college a few months ago , and these are the estimates I first used , with a few tweaks . 35 % of salary as a rough estimate of total taxes . For a salary of $ 70K , that 's $ 24,500 a year . The current contribution limit to an IRA/Roth IRA is $ 5,500 a year . As a recent college grad , it 's definitely smart to max this out . I estimated that my rent would cost $ 1,000 a month , which included rent , utilities , internet , etc. so that 's another $ 12,000 a year . This can vary considerably depending on where you live and your style of living , however . Bankrate has a <URL> that might be helpful in estimating your monthly housing expenses . Your employer will probably match your 401K contributions up to a certain percentage , e.g. 6 % . If you contribute enough to get the entire match , but not more , this is another 6 % of your salary , or 4,200 a year . If you purchase health insurance through your employer , your individual premiums may be a couple hundred a month . My employer has excellent benefits , and my premiums run $ 150 a month , or $ 1,800 a year . This does n't even include copays , deductibles , possibly dental coverage , etc. . Some people still use their parents ' insurance until their 26 , but this does n't work for everyone . Transportation expenses . These may be around $ 100/month , or $ 1,200 a year , if you take public transportation , or considerably more if you have car payments , auto insurance , etc. . I do n't have a car , so I do n't know rough estimates of these numbers off the top of my head . Other recurring expenses , like a cell phone , web hosting , etc. . Some cell phone plans can be $ 100 a month , or $ 1,200 a year . Others can be much cheaper , but this depends on what type of phone and plan you need/want . Even if you ignore the last two items , this leaves you with a grand total of 70 - 24.5 - 5.5 - 12 - 4.2 - 1.8 = $ 22,000 a year , or approximately $ 1,833.33 a month . Whether or not this is enough for you depends on a ) how the expenses above vary based on where you live , b ) how much you spend on food , clothing , entertainment , travel , etc. c ) how much you choose to save/invest in addition to the savings mentioned above . Some employers have better benefits than others , though , so some of the expenses mentioned above may be partially or completely subsidized . Also , as I said before , some or all of these expenses may vary considerably based on your lifestyle and location , but they 're rough estimates . And of course , it 's wise to keep an emergency fund of at least six months of living expenses , in case you lose your job , have an unexpected medical situation , etc. . Keep in mind that I 'm really answering the question " Where does a salary go for a recent college graduate ? " I do n't speak from experience , but once you start a family , you 'll probably have higher medical insurance premiums , possibly a mortgage payment and the associated costs ( maybe mortgage insurance , appliance repairs , etc. ) , savings for your childrens ' education , and higher expenses in every other category ( food , clothing , etc. ) too .
The exact logic for SPAN is developed by CME and may be proprietary and complex . A good article to understand the margins is available on the <URL> . You can purchase <URL> .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
As you point out , the moving average is just and is applied in technical analysis ( TA ) to smooth out volatile ( noise ) price action . If it has any logic to it , you might want to think in terms of return series and you could hypothesize that prices are in fact predictable and will oscillate below and above a running moving average . Below is a link to a study on MA trading rules , published in the Journal of Finance , with the conclusion of predictive power and abnormal returns from such strategies . As with any decision made upon historical arguments , one should be aware of structural changes and or data mining . <URL> Brock , W. , J. Lakonishok and B. Le Baron , 1992 , Simple technical trading rules and the stochastic properties of stock returns , Journal of Finance , 47 , 1731-64 . MA rules betterthan chance in US stock market , 1897-1986 I do n't know whether you are new to TA or not , but a great commercial site , with plenty of computer-generated signals is <URL> .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
Note : I have never heard of this company before this question was asked . These are my thoughts based on a quick review of their website . It seems that Motor Club of America is a roadside assistance service company , similar to AAA . It is ridiculously expensive : $ 20 per month for their " Total Security " plan , or $ 240 per year . This is about double what the highest level of AAA membership costs . As you noticed , they recruit people to sell their Total Security plan in a Multilevel Marketing type scheme . Your Facebook friends and acquaintances that " swear by it " are simply being paid to do so . It 's nothing more than that . Their job is to fill up your Facebook feed with a sales pitch for an overpriced product . Of course , you do n't need to be told this , but selling overpriced products to your friends is not the best way to make money or to keep your friends .
The <URL> for divisor changes is based on splits and composition changes . Dividends are ignored by the index . Side note - this is why , in my opinion , that any discussion of the Dow 's change over a long term becomes meaningless . Ignoring even a 2 % per year dividend has a significant impact over many decades . The divisor can be found at <URL>
I wrote an article <URL> in which I detail how the ideal credit utilization is 1-19 % . So , doing the math , $ 5000 will support $ 1000 ( actually $ 950 ) worth of spending . If you do n't get higher credit lines , and find you charge more now and then , simply make a payment mid-cycle . It 's the amount on the statement that gets reported , not daily balances .
end question
start question
Why do you think there is a difference in these 2 funds ' expense ratios ?
It appears that FDENX charges 0.05 % for its own expenses , but has additional 0.61 % expenses from the underlying funds . This is because , as most target date funds , it does n't invest directly in stocks but rather invests in other Fidelity funds - that also charge expenses . The Pyramis fund may be avoiding these charges by managing it 's assets directly and not through other funds , or by investing in other Pyramis index funds without additional overhead . 0.66 % for a target date fund is quite a lot , I must say .
The biggest single factor in mutual funds of any given type appears to be the fees to maintain and operate it . Those subtract directly from your potential gains . Unless you are really convinced that the difference between the results of similar funds will exceed the difference in their costs , or there are other reasons for accepting lower real returns than you could get , look for lowest cost from an investment house you trust . Note that this is part of why index funds -- which minimize those costs -- do as well as or better than actively managed funds when you look at real results . Beyond that , diversify across types of investment . Pick a target profile , and rebalance between funds when your mix departs too far from those percentages ( where " too far " may be 5 % or so ) and/or put new investments into whichever funds are furthest below their targets . Note that in a recent interview ( as part of an NPR Marketplace segment about the bet ) , the professional investor who bet Warren Buffet that his hand-curated investments would outperform Buffet 's index fund set by a specific date next year admitted that the advice he would give most folks would be to stick with index funds . ( <URL> )
Can anyone explain what each of them mean and how they 're different from each other ? Buy To Open When you " buy to open " , you are purchasing an option and opening a new position . Sell To Open Covered When you " sell to open " , you are creating a brand new options contract and selling it . " Covered " means that you have assets in your account to satisfy the terms of the options contract . A " covered call " is a call option for which you own shares of the underlying stock that you will sell to the buyer at the option 's strike price if he exercises the option . Buy To Close If you previously made a " sell to open " trade to create a new position , and you want to close the position , you can buy back the option . Sell To Close If you previously made a " buy to open " trade , you can " sell to close " which will sell back your option and close your position . In summary : " open " means you 're creating a new position " close " means you 're closing an existing position " covered " means you have the underlying asset ( cash or stock ) to satisfy the option if it is exercised
The denominator is the fund value . The expenses are taken from the fund over the course of the year , so you 're not going to find a way to sell one day , skip the fee , and buy back . The daily pricing is net of expenses , so you do n't subtract . In the case of the Vanguard 500 mimicking the S&amp;P , you 'll see it lags the S&amp;P return by the advertised .05 % .
I do n't know of a situation where rejecting a raise would make sense . Often , one can be in a phaseout of some benefit , so that even though you 're in a certain tax bracket , the impact of the next $ 100 is greater than the bracket rate alone . Taxation of social security benefits is one such anomaly . It can be high , but never over 100 % . Update - The Affordable Care Act contains such an anomaly - go to the <URL> , and see the benefit a family of three might receive . A credit for up to $ 4631 toward their health care insurance cost . But , increase the income to above $ 78120 Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) and the benefit drops to zero . The fact that the next dollar of income will cost you $ 4631 in the lost credit is an example of a step-function in the tax code . I 'd still not turn down the raise , but I 'd ask that it be deposited to my 401 ( k ) . And when reconciling my taxes each April , I 'd use an IRA in case I still went over a bit . Consider , it 's April , and your MAGI is $ 80,120 . Even if you do n't have to cash to deposit to the IRA , you borrow it , from a 24 % credit card if need be . Because the $ 2000 IRA will trigger not just $ 300 less Federal tax , but a $ 4631 health care credit . Note - the above example will apply to a limited , specific group who are funding their own health care expense and paying above a certain percent of income . It 's not a criticism of ACA , just a mathematical observation appropriate to this question . For those in this situation , a close look at their projected MAGI is in order .
The curved lines ( on my screen orange , yellow and pink ) are simple moving averages . The fuchsia and blue straight lines are automatically generated trend lines . Those lines are attempting to show how a stock is trending by showing potential bounce points and are commonly used in technical analysis ( TA ) .
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
For the most part , they 're pretty similar . I have never noticed any differences related to MC vs. VISA , most differences are from the banks offering the cards . It does seem that there is a greater acceptance rate for VISA cards internationally . I have also heard that the MC warranty program ( where they extend the manufacturers ' warranty on anything purchased on a MC ) is outstanding . I think VISA has a similar offering though , for their Signature cardholders .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
From <URL> : Managerial accounting is used primarily by those within a company or organization . Reports can be generated for any period of time such as daily , weekly or monthly . Reports are considered to be " future looking " and have forecasting value to those within the company . ** Financial accounting is used primarily by those outside of a company or organization . Financial reports are usually created for a set period of time , such as a fiscal year or period . Financial reports are historically factual and have predictive value to those who wish to make financial decisions or investments in a company . At my university , managerial accounting focused more on the details of how costs were managed in the company , the future of the business , etc. while the courses that were considered financial accounting were more from the point of view of a financial analyst or investor , like you said . The financial accountancy material covered analysis of financial statements and the associated investment decisions , among other things . These areas overlapped in areas like the production of financial statements , since the company also needs to consider how analysts will interpret these statements , and dividend policy , corporate tax accounting , etc. . The Wikipedia articles on <URL> and <URL> may provide helpful information as well . Disclaimer : I took an introductory accounting course in university and nothing more , so my knowledge of the course structures , even at my alma mater , is secondhand recollection at best . I 'm sure there are more similarities and differences of which I 'm unaware , and I would assume that forensic accountants , auditors , etc. dabble in both these areas and others .
A company can issue different kinds of shares . For example , some kinds of shares may get preference in dividends or payment in event of ( company ) bankruptcy . Preferred shares are an example of this . A company might have several kinds of preferred shares and a ' common stock ' . Here is a <URL> . See too the <URL> . Toronto-Dominion Bank ( TD ) is an example of a company that has <URL> , each with its own listing on the Toronto Stock Exchange ( TSE ) and symbol . TD has one kind of common stock , which is also listed on the TSE . However , TD common equity trades much more actively than the preferred shares . Remember that preferred stock is a different security type than common stock e.g. common has voting rights , preferred does not .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
My thoughts on loaning money to friends or family are outlined pretty extensively <URL> , but cosigning on a loan is a different matter . It is almost never a good idea to do this ( I say " almost " only because I dislike absolutes ) . Here are the reasons why : If the borrower does n't pay the loan , you are on the hook for the loan . If you ca n't wo n't / pay it in such a case as ( 1 ) , it your credit score will be trashed . If they default on the loan and the asset they bought does n't cover the loan balance , your own assets could be in danger ( this could mean garnished wages , property liens , lawsuits or other legal trouble ) When you apply for other loans of your own , this loan will apply to your debt/income ratio , and apply to your credit score , possibly negatively effecting your ability to borrow in the future If they default on the loan , not only will you be mad at them for not holding up their end of the agreement , they may be mad at you for not taking over payments for them . If they need a co-borrower , it means the bank thinks that they are not a good loan risk , and by their calculations they wo n't be able to pay back the loan . Usually when someone is unable to pay a loan , it is n't for lack of trying . Thus , your knowing their good character probably counts for little when the chips are down . If the bank thinks the math wo n't work out , it probably wo n't and you will be the one left to pick up the pieces . Now , all that said , if my sister or parents were dying of cancer and cosigning a loan was the only way to cure them , I might consider cosigning on a loan with them , if that was the only option . But , I would bet that 99.9 % of such cases are not so dire , and your would-be co-borrower will survive with out the co-signing .
The SIPC would protect individual investors up to $ 500K for securities &amp; cash , with a max of $ 250K for cash . One would receive all securities that are already in your name or in the process . In case client money was diverted to company trades , then SIPC will investigate and try to find out how much money belonged to each customer . It would determine this on various inputs including your transaction records like money to transferred to MF Global , internal records , amongst other things . More information in the SIPC bulletin : <URL>
I recognize the numbers you show to reflect the 2013 tax brackets . In 2015 the top of the chart for singles looks like : Before this remarkably cute little tax bracket appeared , the top rate was 35 % . Instead of simply eliminating it , for singles , congress started the next bracket , 39.6 % at $ 413K . The brackets for married filing joint look a bit saner , with 35 % running from $ 411K - $ 465K .
Does the company see itself expanding into new product lines or new territories ? What is the current predicted growth for the company 's earnings for the next 5 years ? These would generally be where I 'd look for growth in companies . In the case of Costco , there may be a perception of the company as being a " safe " company as the market capitalization for the stock is over $ 50 billion which is rather large . Thus , there is something to be said for Costco providing a dividend and may well weather the current market for an idea compared to holding funds in money markets that are paying nothing in some cases . There is also something to be said for looking at the industry and sector values that Costco is in where on <URL> , I find the P/E for the industry and sector to be 35.05 and 28.47 , respectively . Thus , Costco is n't as inflated as the other stocks in the same ballpark for another idea here .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
For a transaction on POS , where physical swipe is required , the transaction is valid only if it is signed the by card holder . I have several times disputed transactions that did not belong to me . The card company often make you go round about , but one has to be persistent and it then gets reversed . On Card Not Present transactions , be it internet or Phone , they are not valid unless authenticated by additional PIN . There may be certain companies that would allow a transaction without such authorization , but these would get reversed if the card holder complains .
end question
start question
How can I estimate future pension pot limit ?
Predicting government regulation in the near future is hard enough . Predicting what the government will do 25 years out is so hard I 'm not sure there is a good answer to your question . Your assumptions and answer seems sensible and you appear to be doing the right calculations . You might improve on this by making a couple scenarios . Would it be worth putting some extra money in just on the chance that the limit might rise faster ? What about if it rises more slowly ? If capturing the upside of tax deferral is more important than the penalty , as I suspect it might be , than maybe being 10 % -20 % over the limit is a better way to go .
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
As I 've had several jobs over the last decade , I 've typically run two pension plans - a private one which I use for consolidating all my previous pensions into and my current corporate one ( often does n't allow consolidating ) where I take advantage of the corporate benefits associated with it ( large corporate institutions typically match your own contributions or contribute a fixed percentage of salary as a perk ) . This allows me to not worry about the previous pension schemes I was a part of as they are in a single place . With the very last corporate job I had , I was not allowed to keep my pension pot under their scheme terms ( unlike with a few others where it was allowed to stay in the scheme but contributions were no longer allowed by either party ) and so when I left , I provided the details of my private pension plan and the pot was transferred into it by my employer . I 've since turned to contracting and consolidated all my previous pensions into a single private pension pot which I still contribute to every month .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
There 's no limit , from the legal perspective ( with regards to the US law , that is ) , to how much you can keep on your bank accounts anywhere in the world . FBAR requirements are reporting requirements , they do n't limit how much you can keep in the accounts , they only make you report the accounts to the government . There 's no such requirement with regards to the US domestic accounts . That is for the US government , your own government ( of the country of which you 're a citizen of ) may have limitations on what accounts you may have outside of that country , or have reporting requirements of their own . That said , keep in mind that FDIC only insures up to $ 250K per person ( i.e. : on all your accounts ) in each institution . So if you have more than $ 250K in a FDIC insured account - you better spread it across different banks .
There is no simple way to calculate how much house any given person can afford . In the answer keshlam gave , several handy rules of thumb are mentioned that are used as common screening devices to reject loans , but in every case further review is required to approve any loan . The 28 % rule is the gold standard for estimating how much you can afford , but it is only an estimate ; all the details ( that you do n't want to provide ) are required to give you anything better than an estimate . In the spirit of JoeTaxpayer 's answer I 'm going to give you a number that you can multiply your gross income by for a good estimate , but my estimate is based on a 15 year mortgage . Assuming a 15 year mortgage with a 3 % interest rate , it will cost $ 690.58 per $ 100,000 borrowed . So to take those numbers and wrap it up in a bow , you can multiply your income by 3.38 and have the amount of mortgage that most people can afford . If you have a down-payment saved add it to the number above for the total price of the home you can buy after closing costs are added in . Property taxes and insurance rates vary widely , and those are often rolled into the mortgage payment to be paid from an escrow account , banks may consider all of these factors in their calculators but they may not be transparent . If you ca n't afford to pay it in 15 years , you really ca n't afford it . Compare the same $ 100k loan : In 30 years at 4 % you pay about $ 477/month with a total of about $ 72k in interest over the life of the loan . In 15 years at 3 % you pay about $ 691/month but the total interest is only $ 24k , and you are out of the loan in half of the time . The equity earned in the first 5 years is also signficantly different with 28.5 % for the 15 year loan vs. 9.5 % on the 30 year loan . Without straying too far into general economics , 15 year loans would also have averted the mortgage crisis of 2008 , because more people would have had enough equity that they would n't have walked out on their homes when there was a price correction .
You really should be able to avoid bank charges entirely . If you 're paying for a checking account , know that there are ones available for free , even without a minimum balance . Same goes for credit cards . There are plenty of no-annual-fee cards out there , so unless you 're getting fabulous rewards that make it worth it , never pay an annual fee . Avoid ATM fees by avoiding the ATM , getting cash back at stores or taking it out at the bank . Overdraft fees and other penalties can be avoided by keeping an eye on your balances and keeping a register . Take advantage of email or text notifications that many banks offer when your account balance goes below a certain amount , or your credit card gets close to its maximum . And I agree with MrChrister that many fees will be refunded if you 've made a one-time mistake . Talk with a customer service rep , apologize , emphasize that you have a good record of on-time payments , and ask if the fee can be taken off your account .
Transferring to Roth IRA is a taxable event . Your pension distribution will be a taxable income to you , but the qualified distributions from the Roth IRA will be tax free ( i.e. : tax free income in retirement , including all the gains ) . Rolling over to traditional IRA will not trigger any taxes , but distributions will be taxable ( i.e. : you 'll pay ordinary income taxes on the money when you withdraw during your retirement ) . Leaving in the pension fund will keep your pension benefits . You need to check what these are and how reliable they may be . If it is a defined benefit pension , that may be something worth keeping .
Apparently it is up to the credit card company on how they want to report your available balance . Another disadvantage to the no-limit credit card may not be apparent to most people , but it is something noted by organizations like The Motley Fool , which is expert in many issues of finance and investment . Part of your credit score , about 30 % , considers the amount of money you have borrowed , and the limit on your present credit cards . A no-limit credit card company may report your limit as $ 0 if you have not used the card , or they may report a maximum limit available to you . They may not , nor are they obligated , to report times when you put tons of expenses on a credit card and then paid them off . While some companies will report your timely payments and paid off amounts , others simply report an extremely low limit . For instance if you spent $ 100 US Dollars ( USD ) , your limit might be considered $ 100 USD , or it may merely be reported as zero . You 'll need to check with a credit card company on how they report payments and limits on a no-limit credit card before you obtain one . Some people who are scrupulous are paying off their cards at the end of each month suffer major losses to their credit score , without even realizing it , if their spending ability is rated at zero , or their payments do n't count toward showing credit worthiness . <URL>
Among possible sources of error : What is the nominal interest rate and compounding period ? What is the effective interest rate per payment period ? Does the lender take into account the different number of days in the months , in amortizing a monthly payment mortgage ? Has the lender added any fees or costs to the principal amount ? Some lenders insist on paying property taxes ( since the city gets first crack at the property ahead of any lender ) , or fire insurance premiums ( since it 's their collateral that could burn down )
Under " Pension contributions deducted from your pay " you need to put in the # amount of the 5 % that you pay from your salary . If your gross salary is # 50k then you would put # 2500 in that field . Under " Pension contributions not paid from your salary " you need to put in any additional amounts that you have paid into any pensions , eg by sending in a cheque or making a Direct Debit or Standing Order . This may well be # 0 in your specific case . You do not need to enter the 10 % employer contribution anywhere .
I have no personal knowledge of this company ; I 've only looked over what I found on the web . Overall , my judgement is that Pension Benefit Information , Inc. of San Rafael , CA is likely legitimate and aboutmyletter.com is one of two sites run by them ( the other being pbinfo.com ) . These two sites are <URL> to Pension Benefit Information , Inc. ( aboutmyletter uses Network Solutions privacy service but gives the company name ; pbinfo uses their name and San Rafael address . ) They are in the BBB . The president ( of the 8 employee Co. ) , Susan McDonald , has <URL> before Congress about business uses of SSNs . They made a ( very schlocky ) video , which has an interview with McDonald after several canned , generic , " impressive " introductions . I found the interview convincing of a person actually running a small , real business of this type . A short version is on their site , <URL> . There are some queries about their legitimacy online ( like this one ) , but I found nothing negative on them , and <URL> . <URL> talks about the suspicions they run into when contacting participants , and has some advice . Also , scammers are unlikely to pay the U.S. Postal Service money to send paper letters . So what are the dangers ? Money or identity . So do n't pay them any fees ( now or later ) , especially since it looks like their clients ( retirement funds ) pay on the other side . As for identity information : What 's in the letter ? Do n't they show that they already know a bunch about you ? Old employer ? Maybe the last four digits of your SSN ? Your address ( if this is not the forwarded-by-IRS type of contact letter ) . Other things , maybe ? What information would you be giving up if you did respond to them fully ? You could try contacting your old company directly ( mentioning PBI , Inc , ) , although on their website PBI says you 'll have to go through them . ( They probably get paid for each successful contact , and deserve it . ) Still , responding through mail or telephone to PBI seems like the reasonable thing to do .
It is the maximum amount of tax-free savings you can contribute towards your RRSP in a given year . Any excess contributions are not tax deductible .
If you are a pay in full card user , the math runs pretty simple . Say you earn $ 48K , or $ 4K/mo . You try to run most expenses through the card to get whatever rewards , so the most ' regular ' spending can be will be $ 2K or so ( mortgage/rent usually ca n't be charged ) . If we want the $ 2K to average a 10 % usage , you ideally want open credit lines to total $ 20K . You can have as much as $ 4K on the bill and still be at 20 % utilization . The above creates a ' rule of thumb ' goal of about half of one 's salary as the goal for available credit . With a caution to readers , this is not advice to carry that amount in outstanding debt . If the credit agencies did n't look at utilization , 10 % of one 's salary would be enough in most cases . Rules of thumb are meant as a starting point . Some people avoid cards for whatever reason . One card with a $ 2000 line might be enough to rent a car and hotel , and be used for little else . Others play the reward game , and this advice is geared toward that kind of heavy user .
You got a refund last year right ? I believe your 1099-G is probably the income from that . The G is government income .
It is important to remember that the tax brackets in the U.S. are marginal . This means that the first part of your income is taxed at 10 % , the next part at 15 % , next at 25 % , etc. . Therefore , if you find yourself just on the edge of a tax bracket , it really does not make any difference which side of that line you end up falling on . That having been said , of course , reducing your taxable income reduces your taxes . There are lots of deductions you can take , if you qualify . Depending on what type of health insurance coverage you have , a Health Savings Account ( HSA ) is a great way to shelter some income from taxes . Charitable contributions are also an easy way to reduce your taxes ; you do n't really personally benefit from them , but if you 'd rather send your money to a good cause than to Uncle Sam , that 's an easy way to do it .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
For planning purposes , here is how you might get a rough estimate of what the maximum interest + penalties could be . Interest According to <URL> , the interest is calculated at a rate of the federal short-term rate + 3 % , compounded daily . The federal short-term rate is <URL> , so for our rough estimate , we 'll assume a rate of 3.64 % . ( Actually , the rate can change each quarter , but we 'll assume it is constant . ) The tax was due on April 15 , 2014 , so if you pay the tax on June 15 , 2016 , I calculate the interest on $ 2345 to be about $ 193 . Penalty The failure to pay penalty listed in Tax Topic 653 is 0.5 % each month , up to a maximum of 25 % of the amount owed . Paying now would make the payment 26 months late , so the penalty on $ 2345 could be as much as $ 305 . I have n't estimated the taxes and penalties for Maryland , but since you only owe $ 464 , the amounts should be much smaller than the federal amounts . You should send this in as soon as possible to minimize interest and penalty , but your accountant is wise to let the IRS and state calculate the interest and penalty and send you the bill , because they may waive it .
If the bonds are in a safe deposit box which is not rented to you and to which you do not possess the key anyway , and you do not have a letter or other document from your grandmother in your possession saying that she has given you the bonds ( which you can collect from a safe deposit box in Bank X in City Y in State Z ) , you are SOL . The bonds are part of her estate and do not belong to you . I doubt that any bank or even the Treasury will cash bonds registered in your grandmother 's name knowing only the numbers , or even the actual bonds themselves , unless you have a letter in your possession from your grandmother saying that she has gifted the bonds to you . You might be able to follow the procedure for replacing lost US Savings Bonds if you have a letter and the bond numbers , but now we are getting into legal details that are inappropriate for this forum . I do n't like to say this , but your story does not pass the smell test . In view of the revised question , I would say that @DJClayworth 's comment on the main question is probably the best course to pursue . You could try looking at Form PD F 1048 ( available through the TreasuryDirect web site ) which allows you to ask the Bureau of Public Debt to re-issue lost or destroyed bonds . But the Form may ask you to affirm under penalty of perjury that all the statements you make on the form are true , and you have stated that the bonds are neither lost nor destroyed , just inconvenient to retrieve , and you do n't really need the bonds to be replaced for the purpose of holding them as investments , possibly in your personal safe deposit box , but to cash them in .
If possible , I 'd rather get ahold of some of the value of that pension It 's not ( currently ) possible . Although there has recently been a pretty big shake-up in the world of UK pensions , the fundamental principle that money put into a pension is inaccessible until retirement still holds . If anyone Advised you , they should have made this extremely clear ; if there was no Advice , there would have been prominent text to this effect somewhere in the written materials you were given ( the Key Facts Illustration or similar ) . In your position ( NB this is not Advice , and I am not a financial adviser ) , I would transfer that pension to a low-cost SIPP , using a provider offering free transfers , rather than allowing it to possibly be marked ' dormant ' and the funds invested in a poor-value tied fund . Then at least you could choose where it was invested . Check for any guaranteed benefits you would lose by transferring out .
end question
start question
Why do most U.S. companies pay their dividends quarterly , as opposed to annually ?
Because some investors like a regular income stream in fact a substantial number of UK Investment Trusts pay quarterly dividends for this reason . The idea being if you have a selection of quarterly paying investments you can get a monthly income . I suspect that German companies are more tightly held and do not treat outside smaller investors with the respect that they should - ask a German company about employee share options and you will see what I mean .
While I ca n't say this is the normal process for this to happen , it does n't seem too far fetched to be true . I would assume that the double application fee is in part to guarantee nothing slips past them in the process . The fact that you state they have a particularly low rent as compared to other places in the area may be due to having higher entry standards , in which they do a bit more in terms of vetting potential renters , in order to guarantee themselves accurate payment without too much in the way of problems . If you really like the complex , I would say bite the bullet and pay the application fee , or at least ask them why both of you would need to pay such a fee , they should be more than happy to explain it to you .
This is a US-centric answer , which may not apply in other countries . Given that credit card companies have access to your credit information , why do they keep advertising balance-transfer options to people who have great credit and never carry a balance ? TL ; DR answer : The credit-card companies hope that you will accept the offer so they can make a quick buck off you that they otherwise have no chance of extracting from you . The phrase " never carry a balance " means that the card-holder is paying each month 's statement balance in full by the due date and is thus not charged any interest on purchases . Generally , people with excellent credit scores receive balance transfer offers ( and often checks that can be used to pay taxes or auto loan payments etc or deposited into personal accounts ) which are indeed charged 0 % interest for 12 months or 18 months etc , but which have a " service charge " of 2 % to 5 % . Those " 0 % interest for 12 months and no service charge " offers that you see in advertisements are sent to people with middling credit scores . For what happens when someone used to paying off each month 's statement balance in full accepts a balance transfer offer , see <URL> of mine . All credit-card companies that I have used set the minimum payment due on each monthly statement to be the sum of ( i ) all interest accrued over the previous month on earlier purchases , ( ii ) all interest on cash advances from previous months as well as the current month , ( iii ) all service charges ( including annual fees , cash advance fees etc ) , and ( iv ) 1 % of the sum total of all purchases and cash advances that have not been paid as yet . The statement balance includes everything that is currently owed including the 0 % rate amount . But what if you ( someone used to paying off each monthly statement in full ) have just accepted a 0 % balance transfer offer of ( say ) $ 10K with 2 % service charge ? You have no past unpaid purchases or cash advances , but do have current purchases of ( say ) $ 4K . The full statement balance is $ 10K + $ 200 + $ 4K = $ 14,200 while the minimum amount due is $ 200 + 1 % of ( $ 10K + $ 4K ) = $ 340 . So you decide to pay $ 4200 by the due date in the belief that you have paid off all your current purchases and the service charge , and so you are all clear for next month . Buzzt ! Not so at all . Any time that you pay less than the full statement balance , the CARD Act says that the minimum amount due part can be applied to any part of the statement balance ; it is only the excess , if any , over and above the minimum payment amount that must be applied to that part of the balance that carries the highest interest rate ( and then to the part of the balance with the next highest interest rate and so on till all the excess amount is used up ) . So , of your $ 4200 payment , $ 340 will pay off part of the 0 % loan balance of $ 10K , and the rest will be applied to the service charge ( paid off completely ) and then to the $ 4K purchase balance . Worse yet , your account changes status from " Last month 's statement balance paid in full " to " Last month 's statement balance not paid in full " and so all future purchases on the card will be charged interest from Day 1 , and so will those purchases that you did n't pay off be charged interest . That is , there is no 25-day grace period anymore . If you want to continue using your credit card , the only way to do it is to pay the whole $ 14,200 statement balance by the due date of your next statement . In short , you will have paid $ 200 as " interest " on a loan of $ 10K for a period of 26 through 55 days depending on when in the billing cycle the balance transfer occurred . ( Note that the $ 200 you are paying is technically a service charge , and is not subject to usury laws that forbid exorbitant interest rates ) . For those people with less than stellar credit who do n't look at the credit card statement closely each month and simply pay the amount shown as the minimum amount due each month , a 0 % balance transfer offer with no service charge is , for the credit card company , the gift that keeps on giving ( which is why they can offer no service charge ) . Their customer is paying off the 0 % amount due , and none of the payment is being applied to the interest accrued last month , and so the interest-bearing part of the balance is increasing ! Furthermore , 12 or 18 or 24 months later , the customer is quite likely not to have the wherewithal to pay off the remaining 0 % balance , and so the ( waived ) interest on the 0 % balance also becomes un-waived etc. .
The only card I 've seen offer this on credit card purchases is Discover . I think they have a special deal with the stores so that the cash-over amount is not included in the percentage-fee the merchant pays . ( The cash part shows up broken-out from the purchase amount on the statement -- if this was purely something the store did on its own without some collaboration with Discover that would not happen ) . The first few times I 've seen the offer , I assumed it would be treated like a cash-advance ( high APR , immediate interest with no grace period , etc. ) , but it is not . It is treated like a purchase . You have no interest charge if you pay in full during the grace period , and no transaction fee . Now I very rarely go to the ATM . What is in it for Discover ? They have a higher balance to charge you interest on if you ever fail to pay in full before the grace period . And Discover does n't have any debit/pin option that I know of , so no concern of cannibalizing their other business . And happier customers . What is in it for the grocer ? Happier customers , and they need to have the armored car come around less often and spend less time counting drawers internally .
Because some investors like a regular income stream in fact a substantial number of UK Investment Trusts pay quarterly dividends for this reason . The idea being if you have a selection of quarterly paying investments you can get a monthly income . I suspect that German companies are more tightly held and do not treat outside smaller investors with the respect that they should - ask a German company about employee share options and you will see what I mean .
You have to be the owner of record before the ex-dividend date , which is not the same day as the date the dividend is paid . This also implies that if you sell on or after the ex-dividend date , you 'll still get the dividend , even if you no longer own the stock . Keep in mind , also , that the quoted price of the stock ( and on any open orders that are not specifically marked as " do not reduce " ) on its ex-dividend date is dropped by the amount of the dividend , first thing in the morning before trading starts . If you happen to be the first order of the day , before market forces cause the price to move , you 'll end up with zero gain , since the dividend is built into the price , and you got the same value out of it -- the dividend in cash , and the remaining value in stock . As pointed out in the comments ( Thanks @Brick ) , you 'll still get a market price for your trade , but the price reduction will have had some impact on the first trade of the day . Source : <URL> Also , remember that the dividend yield is expressed in annualized terms . So a 3 % yield can only be fully realized by receiving all of the dividend payments made by the company for the year . You can , of course , forget about individual companies and just look for dividends to create your own effective yield over time . But , see the final point ... Finally , if you keep buying and selling just to play games with the dividends , you 're going to pay far more in transaction fees than you will earn in dividends . And , depending on your individual circumstances , you may end up paying more in capital gains taxes .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
The shareholders have a claim on the profits , but they may prefer that claim to be exercised in ways other than dividend payments . For example , they may want the company to invest all of its profits in growth , or they may want it to buy back shares to increase the value of the remaining shares , especially since dividends are generally taxed as income while an increase in the share price is generally taxed as a capital gain , and capital gains are often taxed at a lower rate than income .
Facebook has shares already trading in a private market . The $ 100 billon valuation is based on the trading price of those shares : <URL>
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
If you read a bit on this site you will see warnings about closing accounts . Yes , what you propose to do can work , as long as your timing is right , and you watch your score . You get a minor ding for pulls to your report ( credit inquiries ) , for high utilization , and for low average account age . For your goals , you should only get cards that have no annual fee , and let them accumulate . At some point , you will have enough available credit that any balance wont cause high utilization , and canceling a card wont kill your average age .
If you charge clients outside of province , you do n't need to collect PST , and if outside of Canada , you do n't need to collect GST . <URL> : Generally , GST/HST registrants must charge and account for the GST on taxable supplies ( other than zero-rated supplies ) of property and services made in Canada . However , where GST/HST registrants make taxable supplies ( other than zero-rated supplies ) in Canada , and those supplies are made in a participating province , they must charge and account for the HST instead of the GST . PS : I think you should consult with Canada Revenue anyway . From my experience : I had sole proprietorship in Quebec , when I had clients from Ontario , I collected only GST , when I had clients in US , I did n't collect taxes at all .
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
There 's no tax difference between using AirBnB or Craigslist or any other method to find tenants . The rules relating to occupancy and frequency may be different for some purposes if you go from yearly or monthly tenants to daily-rate tenants . Your state and local authorities may in the future try to consider you a motel or Bed n Breakfast equivalent , and subject you to various regulations and business taxes . But the method of finding customers itself is probably not meaningful for tax purposes .
Yes , somebody could buy the shares , receive the dividend , and then sell the shares back . However , the price he would get when he sells the shares back is , ignoring other reasons for the price to change , exactly the amount he paid minus the dividend .
Public companies in the US are supposed to follow accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) when publishing financial statements . These standards require that assets be valued at current market rates . During the 2008 financial crisis , <URL> pressured Congress to pass legislation to suspend mark-to-market accounting since many banks were holding assets that had severely dropped in value after the crisis . Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ) which required the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) to <URL> " Alternative accounting standards to those provided in [ Financial Accounting Standards Board ] Statement Number 157 " . At the time the SEC decided not to suspend mark-to-market . However , the EESA reaffirmed that the SEC has the authority to suspend mark-to-market if they choose .
As with all tax questions , you need to do your own research and possibly consult a professional . Here is what I have found to be true while working outside the US . However , I have never worked in Canada , so I 'm not sure of the rules specific to living there . In general , the US government wants your income taxes regardless of where you live . If you 're in a situation where the country that you live in also wants you to pay taxes on your income , you are then allowed to deduct those taxes from the amount you owe the US government . So basically , you have to pay at least the amount of taxes that you would owe the US . If you pay less than that elsewhere , you pay the difference to the US , otherwise you just pay local taxes . Either way , you still have to file your US tax return , even if you do n't owe anything . Of course the stuff above about paying local taxes mostly just applies if you 're working in another country , for a company that 's based in that country . Since you 're working remotely for a US-based company , you might not actually pay any local taxes , but that depends on Canada 's laws , with which I am not familiar . Either way , there 's no way to get out of paying at least what you owe in US federal income taxes .
On a summary level , there are three conceptual ways of clearing money electronically . Immediate clearing , where banks ( often , but not necessarily ) with support of the supervisory entities , send immediate drawing rights against their own cash reserves , and dedicate this right to the account of the receiving customer . This is rather expensive , as it limits the banks ability to use their cash reserves for their own banking operations ( crediting etc ) . This is often the only way to wire significant ( in comparison to the bank size ) amounts of money . Internal clearing , where the money actually never leaves the bank - it 's just moved between accounts of two different customers of the same bank . It 's usually free , as the bank is still free to use your money to do it 's banking , and it 's usually immediate since nothing actually needs to happen besides a change in the banks entries . Batch clearing , where banks submit outstanding requests against each other , and calculate the net settlement . Basically , when you from bank A wire money to me in bank B , there is a high chance that a similar amount of money is wired between two other users it the opposite direction . After a bit of accounting the net imbalance is computed ( and often drawn via immediate clearing ) but the bulk of the money actually never leaves any of the banks , it just is reassigned between each banks customers as per agreed books . There are also additional ways where companies decide to open accounts in each of the banks and provide some sort of immediate clearing backed by the operators cash reserves rather than the banks . . and so on . . How does it happen in Indonesia ? I have no idea , but I think a good overview of how it happens around the world is a publication by a partner entity of ours ; <URL> If you are really curious , I 'd research under what legal form does Paypal Indonesia operate ( it should be somewhere in the archives ) and figure out what other wiring options are available .
You are being offered a package deal . We will do a financial needs analysis based on what information you provide us , e.g. current income and expenses , guesstimates of future earnings and expenses , current assets , guesstimates of retirement income desired and age at retirement . We will recommend investments for you to help you achieve your financial goals and even make them for you in our favorite stocks , mutual funds , and insurance policies . We will gladly manage all your investments for you for only a small annual fee so that you can do the things that interest you instead of wasting it in reading company annual reports and finding good investment opportunities . Much of what you will get from 1 . will be similar to what you will get from most of the other companies , though there will be minor , perhaps even significant , differences in the details depending on the particular inclinations and outlooks of the financial advisor . For example , what rate of inflation is assumed for the next n years will significantly affect the numbers . All of 2 . and the fees in 3 . will differ from company to company . You could ask for just 1 . ( for which you will pay a fee and then be exhorted to sign up for 2 . and 3 . even at this late date in which case the fee would be waived ) , and go with a different company for 2 . and 3. , or pay the fee and just do the investments yourself , or you could just accept the whole package offered by the company you are dealing with . Your choice might depend on how well you hit it off with the contact person ( s ) with whom you will be working closely .
end question
start question
Why are ETF MERs lower than mutual fund MERs ?
My understanding is that the traditional mutual funds use part of the expense ratio for advertising of the mutual fund to increase the number of shareholders . I do n't think ETF 's are advertised as heavily or directly to potential investors . Also , the statistics could be skewed because it seems like a lot of ETFs do not have active portfolio management and simply track a particular investment index . This would reduce the overhead expense of an investment research team to investigate and select the investments for the fund .
It is important to remember that the tax brackets in the U.S. are marginal . This means that the first part of your income is taxed at 10 % , the next part at 15 % , next at 25 % , etc. . Therefore , if you find yourself just on the edge of a tax bracket , it really does not make any difference which side of that line you end up falling on . That having been said , of course , reducing your taxable income reduces your taxes . There are lots of deductions you can take , if you qualify . Depending on what type of health insurance coverage you have , a Health Savings Account ( HSA ) is a great way to shelter some income from taxes . Charitable contributions are also an easy way to reduce your taxes ; you do n't really personally benefit from them , but if you 'd rather send your money to a good cause than to Uncle Sam , that 's an easy way to do it .
Mutual funds ( that are not exchange-traded funds ) often need to sell some of their securities to get cash when a shareholder redeems some shares . Such transactions incur costs that are paid ( proportionally ) by all the shareholders in the fund , not just the person requesting redemption , and thus the remaining shareholders get a lower return . ( Exchange-traded funds are traded as if they are shares of common stock , and a shareholder seeking a redemption pays the costs of the redemption ) . For this reason , many mutual funds do not allow redemptions for some period of time after a purchase , or purchases for some period of time after a redemption . The periods of time are chosen by the fund , and are stated in the prospectus ( which everyone has acknowledged has been received before an investment was made ) .
The ETF price quoted on the stock exchange is in principle not referenced to NAV . The fund administrator will calculate and publish the NAV net of all fees , but the ETF price you see is determined by the market just like for any other security . Having said that , the market will not normally deviate greatly from the NAV of the fund , so you can safely assume that ETF quoted price is net of relevant fees .
Within reason , I find that it 's usually possible to find out the full holdings a mutual fund has . What I mean by this is that you ca n't go and find out a perfectly up-to-date measurement , on demand , all the time . However , you can go and pull a fund 's prospectus and it will disclose ( a ) its investment strategy , and ( b ) its holdings . For example , I own some holdings in SHRAX , which is a mutual fund . You can find its holdings as of Sept. 30 , 2013 <URL> . You can find something similar -- just a different format -- for VNQ , <URL> ( I do n't own this one ... yet . ) I get what you 're saying about the ' secret ' sauce vs. full disclosure concept . But I 'm pretty sure that only listing the top 5 or 10 holdings has more to do simplifying information . By the math , movements in the largest holdings will have the biggest impact on the change in value of a single share of the fund overall . It may even be a legal requirement ( at least in the US ) to make disclosures about the full holdings available every quarter . Maybe someone else can speak to that .
There are still human brokers on the floor primarily due to tradition . Their numbers have certainly dwindled , however , and it 's reasonable to expect the number of floor traders to decrease even more as electronic trading continues to grow . A key reason for human brokers , however , is due to privacy . Certain private exchanges such as dark pools maintain privacy for high profile clients and institutional investors , and human brokers are needed to execute anonymous deals in these venues . Even in this region , however , technology is supplanting the need for brokers . I do n't believe there is any human-broker-free stock exchange , but Nasdaq and other traditionally OTC ( over the counter ) exchanges are as close as it gets since they never even had trading floors .
The main difference between an ETF and a Mutual Fund is Management . An ETF will track a specific index with NO manager input . A Mutual Fund has a manager that is trying to choose securities for its fund based on the mandate of the fund . Liquidity ETFs trade like a stock , so you can buy at 10am and sell at 11 if you wish . Mutual Funds ( most ) are valued at the end of each business day , so no intraday trading . Also ETFs are similar to stocks in that you need a buyer/seller for the ETF that you want/have . Whereas a mutual fund 's units are sold back to itself . I do not know of many if any liquity issues with an ETF , but you could be stuck holding it if you can not find a buyer ( usually the market maker ) . Mutual Funds can be closed to trading , however it is rare . Tax treatment Both come down to the underlying holdings in the fund or ETF . However , more often in Mutual Funds you could be stuck paying someone else 's taxes , not true with an ETF . For example , you buy an Equity Mutual Fund 5 years ago , you sell the fund yourself today for little to no gain . I buy the fund a month ago and the fund manager sells a bunch of the stocks they bought for it 10 years ago for a hefty gain . I have a tax liability , you do not even though it is possible that neither of us have any gains in our pocket . It can even go one step further and 6 months from now I could be down money on paper and still have a tax liability . Expenses A Mutual Fund has an MER or Management Expense Ratio , you pay it no matter what . If the fund has a positive return of 12.5 % in any given year and it has an MER of 2.5 % , then you are up 10 % . However if the fund loses 7.5 % with the same MER , you are down 10 % . An ETF has a much smaller management fee ( typically 0.10-0 .95 % ) but you will have trading costs associated with any trades . Risks involved in these as well as any investment are many and likely too long to go into here . However in general , if you have a Canadian Stock ETF it will have similar risks to a Canadian Equity Mutual Fund . I hope this helps .
With the caveat that you should always read the fine print ... Generally , the high water mark is the absolute highest mark at end of any quarter ( sometimes month ) over all the quarters ( months ) in the past . Intra-quarter marks do n't matter . So , in your example the mark at the end of the second quarter would only be the new HWM if that mark is higher then the mark at the end of every previous quarter . Again , what happened in the middle of of the second quarter does n't matter . For hedge funds , the HWM may only be be from the date you started investing rather than over the whole history of the fund , but I would be surprised if that was true for any mutual funds . Though , as I may have mentioned , it is worth reading the fine print .
I do n't believe there is any particular structural or financial reason that outgoing wire transfers cost so much in Canada , their costs are no higher than other countries ( and lower than many ) . Wires seem to be an area where the Canadian banks have decided people do n't comparison shop , so it 's not a competitive advantage to offer a better price . The rates you quoted are on the low side : $ 80 for a largish international wire is not unusual , and HSBC charges <URL> ! There are several alternative ways to transfer money domestically in Canada . If the recipient banks at the same bank , it 's possible to go into a branch and transfer money directly from your own account to their account ( I 've never been charged for this ) . The transfer is immediate . But it could n't be done online , last time I checked . For transfers where you do n't know the recipients bank account , you can pay online with Interac E-Transfers , offered by most Canadian banks . It 's basically e-mailing money . It usually costs $ 1 to $ 1.50 per transfer , and has limits on how much you can send per day/week . Each of the banks also have a bill-pay service , but unlike similar services in the US ( where they mail a paper check if the recipient is n't on their system ) , each Canadian bank has a limited number of possible payees ( mostly utilities , governments , major stores ) .
Yes , even though interest might be tax free , a capital gain or loss on sale of the fund is taxable .
401k choices are awful because : The 401k lobby is powerful . The customer is a captive audience . Most participants do not know they are awful , thanks to expense ratios . The best remedy I have found is to roll over to an IRA when changing jobs .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
Mutual funds do n't work like stocks in that way . The price of a mutual fund is set at the end of each day and does n't fluctuate during the day . So no matter when you put in your order , it will be filled at the end of the day at whatever the closing price is for that day . Here is some good information on that There is no continuous pricing of fund shares throughout the trading day . When an investor places an order to buy or sell a fund 's shares , the order is executed based on the NAV calculated at the end of that trading day , regardless of what time during the day the order was placed . On the other hand , if the investor were to check the price of his or her fund shares halfway through the business day , the price quoted would be the previous day 's NAV because that was the last time the fund calculated and reported the value . - <URL>
Toward the philosophical side of your question , it seems to me that what is most important is knowing how well your fund is performing versus it 's benchmark . This is an actionable piece of information that can help you get out of an under-performing fund , although if you 're already using Vanguard it 's likely a low cost and broadly diversified fund . Ultimately , what you want to avoid over the long term is under-performing the market due to high fees , market timing , poor fund selection etc. , and selecting a fund that closely tracks the market seems to be the best way to achieve this , assuming that you intend to be a passive investor . I do n't see a clear benefit to calculating a personal rate of return . If the fund is performing well versus its benchmark , you are likely to stay with it , and if it is performing poorly , you are likely to pull out . At the end of the day , the complicated accounting wo n't actually change the amount you 've got in your account , so I 'd recommend picking a good fund , checking up on it once in a great while , and putting your time to better purpose .
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
There are no tax consequences when you exchange funds in a tax-deferred account .
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
who computes the S&amp;P 500 ? <URL> . Why are they sharing this information and Because that 's what they do . This is a financial research company . how do they recuperate the costs inherent in computing the S&amp;P 500 ? By charging clients for other information . The computing of the index itself is not all that complicated , its coming up with the index that 's a problem . Once they 've come up with the formula , and it became widely accepted , the computation itself is not an issue . But the fact that its so popular leads to the S&amp;P brand recognition , and people come and pay good money for their other services ( ratings and financial analysis of securities ) . They do more work for free . For example , the ratings of various government debts are being done by S&amp;P for free ( governments do n't pay for that ) , while private bonds are rated for a fee ( corporations pay to have their bonds rated ) . Also , as noted by JBKing , there are probably some licensing fees for using the index name in the fund name ( and other users are probably paying the licensing fee , like the news agencies and the exchanges ) . <URL> , and as such can not be used without the owner 's permission . Why is then " active management " not required for indexed funds Because no research and stock picking is required . In fact , these funds do n't really require a manager , they can be managed by a simple script . and how does it lower taxes ? ( perhaps this could be a different question if this has become too broad ) Actively managed funds perform a lot more buy/sell operations , each leading to tax consequences to the fund ( which rolls them over to the investors ) . Index funds only buy and sell to re-balance back to the index ( or when the makeup of the index changes , usually once a year or half a year ) , leading to much lesser realized capital gains to the fund , thus much lesser tax consequences .
Buying the right shares gives higher return . Buying the wrong ones gives worse return , possibly negative . The usual recommendation , even if you have a pro advising you , is to diversify most of your investments to reduce the risk , even though that may reduce the possible gain . A mutual fund is diversification-in-a-can . It requires little to no active maintenance . Yes , you pay a management fee , but you are n't paying per-transaction fees every time you adjust your holdings , and the management costs can be quite reasonable if you pick the right funds ; minimal in the case of computer-managed ( index ) funds . If you actively enjoy playing with stocks and bonds and are willing/able to accept your failures and less-than-great choices as part of the game , and if you can convince yourself that you will do better this way , go for it . For those of us who just want to deposit out money , watch it grow , and maybe rebalance once a year if that , index funds are a perfectly good choice . I spend at least 8 hours a day working for my money ; the rest of the time , I want my money to work for me . Risk and reward tend to be proportional to each other ; when they are n't , market prices tend to move to correct that . You need to decide how much risk you 're comfortable with , and how much time and effort and money you 're willing to spend managing that risk . Personally , I am perfectly happy with the better-than-market-rate-of-return I 'm getting , and I do n't have any conviction that I could do better if I was more involved . Your milage will vary . If folks did n't disagree , there would n't be a market .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
end question
start question
Can I deduct moving expenses if I planned to work for a company for an amount of time but did n't ?
<URL> covers Moving Expenses . According to Pub 521 , in order to deduct moving expenses , there are <URL> , one of which is called the <URL> : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Yes , the 39-week employment period is a requirement . However , the 39 weeks do not have to be consecutive nor with the same employer . Also , the 39 weeks do not have to be complete before taking the deduction . Pub 521 goes on further to explain this in the section <URL> . Essentially , you can deduct your moving expenses if you think that you will meet this 39-week requirement over the 12 months following your move . If you decide to take the deduction and then it turns out that you did not meet the 39-week test , you must fix it by either amending your tax return or adding the deduction back in as " extra income " on the next year 's return . Pub 521 also lists <URL> which will get you out of the time test , ( including getting laid off ) , but quitting is not one of them . Since you have already left the area , you will not meet this 39-week test and should not deduct the expenses for that move . However , in moving back to your home state , you have made a new move that might be eligible for deduction , depending on your job situation .
Yes , a contribution to a Traditional IRA is an <URL> assuming you meet the requirements <URL> , so you do n't have to itemize to receive it . You only get a deduction for a Traditional IRA ; Roth IRAs are after-tax .
The major reason to start an LLC for side work is if you want the additional personal liability protection afforded by one . If you 're operating as a sole proprietor , you may be exposing yourself to liability : debts and judgments against your business can put your personal assets at risk ! So , if you 're intending to continue and grow your side work in the future , you ought to consider the LLC sooner than later . It 's also an important legal decision and you should consider seeking a professional opinion . The Wall Street Journal has a brief guide titled <URL> . Here are some notable excerpts : A limited liability company , or LLC , is similar to a partnership but has the legal protections of personal assets that a corporation offers without the burdensome formalities , paperwork and fees . [ ... ] Some states charge annual fees and taxes that can diminish the economic advantage of choosing to become an LLC . Among LLC advantages : pass-through taxation -- meaning the profits and losses " pass through " the business to the individuals owning the business who report this information on their own personal tax returns . The result can be paying less in taxes , since profits are not taxed at both the business level and the personal level . Another plus : Owners are n't usually responsible for the company 's debts and liabilities . [ ... ] Also check out onstartups.com 's <URL> ? Here are some additional articles that discuss the advantages / disadvantages of forming an LLC : <URL> - allbusiness.com <URL> - ehow.com <URL> - gaebler.com
It appears that this is the case . From IRS <URL> , Health Savings Accounts and Other Tax-Favored Health Plans Qualified medical expenses are those incurred by the following persons . You and your spouse . All dependents you claim on your tax return . Any person you could have claimed as a dependent on your return except that : The person filed a joint return , The person had gross income of $ 3,700 or more , or You , or your spouse if filing jointly , could be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's 2011 return .
Commuting expenses to and from work are not deductible . If you have a second job and go directly there from your first job , then you can deduct the expenses of traveling to your second job . If you are self-employed and your business is run out of your home , you can deduct the travel expenses to go to a client 's site to do the work on Schedule C . If you have an office elsewhere , you can not deduct the expenses of going to your office , but going from your office to a client site is deductible on Schedule C. Be aware that this deduction is often abused and the IRS knows it and often audits people whom it suspects are embroidering their deductions , and so it is important to keep meticulous records of your business travel .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
There is no typical return for an IRA . Understand that an IRA is not an investment type , it is just an account that gets special tax treatment by the Federal Government . The money in the IRA could be invested in almost anything including Gold , Stocks , Bonds , Cash , CDs , etc. . So the question as phrased is n't exactly meaningful . It is kind of like asking what is the typical price of things if I use $ 10 bills . As for a 10.6 % annualized return on your portfolio . That 's not a bad return . At that rate you will double your investment ( with compounding ) every 7.2 years . Again , however , some context is needed . You can really only evaluate investment returns with your risk profile in mind . If you are invested in super safe investments like CDs , that is an absolutely incredible return . You compare it to several indexes , which is a good way to do it if you are investing in the types of investments tracked by those indexes .
In my experience , even with such POS machines , there is a display that asks you to confirm your total , as a very last step , even if they ask if you want a receipt as a first step . By this manner , it would be nearly impossible for the teller to change the total without you noticing , so long as you read the total given to you by the device . The scam in question is more likely to happen in a restaurant with the additional tip segment , allowing someone to give themselves more of a tip than you initially wrote onto the receipt . This is the only way I believe you would have a feasible chance of being cheated like this .
This depends on how your agreement with the US Company is structured . Consult a professional CA who will guide you . As you have stated , the entire amount of $ 1000 would be treated as income , for certain professions and type of activities , you can claim the tax paid in US and only pay additional in India , ie if you have paid 25 % in US and are liable for 30 % in India you just pay 5 % more .
Sorry to hear about this happening to you . You should file a lawsuit in small claims court and get a judgement . Unfortunately , you are probably one of many creditors , and are unlikely to get much , if any , money back .
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
Did it show just your address , or was your name on it as well ? You did n't share how long you 've lived at the address either , so it makes me wonder whether a former tenant is the one who filed that paperwork . It 's also possible that someone used your address when making a filing . Whether that was deliberate or accidental is hard to discern , as is their intent if it was intentional . It could be accidental -- someone picked " CA " for California when they meant to pick " CO " for Colorado or " CT " for Connecticut ... These things do happen . It ca n't make you feel any better about the situation though . You should be able to go online to the California Secretary of State 's website ( <URL> ) and look up everything filed by the LLC with the state . That will show who the founders were and everything else that is a matter of public record on the LLC . At the very least , you can obtain the registered agent 's name and address for the LLC , which you can then use to contact them and ask why your address is listed as the LLC 's business address . Once you have that info , you can then contact the Secretary of State and tell them it is n't you so they can do whatever is necessary to correct this . This does n't sound like a difficult matter to clear up , but it 's important to do your homework first and gather as much information as you can before you call the state . Answering " I do n't know " wo n't get you very far with them compared to having the best answers you can about where the mistake started . I hope this helps . Good luck !
<URL> You may be able to get tax back for some of the bills you have to pay because you have to work at home on a regular basis . You can only claim for things to do with your work , eg business telephone calls or the extra cost of gas and electricity for your work area . You ca n't claim for things that you use for both private and business use , eg rent or broadband access . You do n't need to provide records for claims of up to # 4 per week ( # 18 per month ) . For claims over # 4 per week you 'll need to provide evidence of what you 've spent . Claims up to # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return if you already fill one in . If you do n't already fill in a Self Assessment tax return , and your allowable expenses are under # 2,500 for the tax year , fill in form P87 and send it to the address on the form . If you 've made a successful claim in a previous tax year and your expenses are less than # 1,000 ( or # 2,500 for professional fees and subscriptions ) , you may be able to make your claim by phone . Claims over # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
I 'm just began playing in the stock market . I assume you mean that you 're not using real money , but rather you have an account with a stock simulator like <URL> . I am hopeful that 's the case due to the high level of risk involved in short selling like you 're describing . Here is <URL> about short selling that expands a bit on that point . To learn much more about the ins and outs of short selling I will point again to Investopedia . I swear I do n't work for them , but they do have a great <URL> . When you short sell a stock you are borrowing the stock from your broker . ( The broker typically uses stock held by one or more of his clients to cover the loan . ) Since it 's basically a loan you pay interest . Of course the longer you hold it the more interest you pay . Also , as Joe mentioned there are scenarios in which you may be forced to buy the stock ( at a higher price than you sold it ) . This tends to happen when the stock price is going against the short sell ( i.e. you lose money ) . Finally , did anyone mention that the potential losses in a short sell are infinite ?
No , you can not . You can only deduct expenses that the employer required from you , are used solely for the employer 's ( not your ! ) benefit , you were not reimbursed for them and they 're above the 2 % AGI threshold . And that - only if you 're itemizing your deductions .
Whether your financial status is considered " OK " depends on your aspirations . You are n't spending more than you earn and have no debt . That puts you in the category of OK in my book , but the information in your post indicates that you would benefit from some financial advice -- 100 grand sounds like a lot of money to have in a bank unless you are on the verge of spending it . Financial advisors come in various shapes and sizes . Many will charge you a lot for what turns out to be helpful advice in the first meeting , but very little value-added thereafter . Some do n't have the best incentives ( they may be incentivized to encourage you to put your money into certain funds , for example ) . There are many financial advisors ( of sorts ) that you have access to that wo n't cost you anything . For example , if you have a 401 ( k ) at work , I bet there is a representative from the plan administrator that will meet with you for free . If you open a brokerage account or IRA at any place ( Fidelity , Vanguard , etc. ) you can easily talk with one of their reps and get all sorts of advice . My personal take is to meet with anyone who will meet with me for free , but not to pay anyone for this service . It 's too easy to get good advice and paying for it does n't guarantee that you get better advice . Your financial situation will depend primarily on a few things you have not mentioned here . For example , How much are you setting aside for retirement and what are your retirement goals ? This is something lots of people can give you advice on , but we do n't know what market returns will be going forward so we do n't really know . One bit of advice that may benefit you is how to set aside money for retirement in the most tax advantaged way . How much do you feel that you need saved up for large expenses ? Thinking of starting a family ? How many months worth of income are you comfortable having set aside ? What is your tolerance of risk ? If you put your money in risky assets , you may make more , but you may also actually lose money . Those are the questions a financial advisor will ask about . Once you have his/her advice -- and preferrably after talking to a few advisors -- you can make your own decision . Basically , your options are : Keep saving in banks or other safe assets ( make sure you are using the highest interest-rate paying bank you can find ) Put additional money into an IRA or other retirement vehicle in order to save on taxes Open a ( normal , taxable ) brokerage account and start buying financial assets . Buy real assets , like real estate , gold1 , collectibles , guns1 , etc. . Rules of thumb : Save only what makes sense to save in banks given your expected needs for cash . Put a lot in tax advantaged accounts ( do n't give Uncle Sam any gifts ) . Then look at financial and real investments . There are a number of free resources on the internet . For example <URL> . Or you can hit up the forums at <URL> . Those guys give and receive financial advice as a hobby . They are n't professionals , but you can get a lot of varying ideas and make up your own mind , which to me is better than ( just ) asking a professional . BTW , regarding the ESPP : these plans often give you a discount on stock and can therefore be a good idea . Just be sure you do n't hold the stock longer than you need to . It 's generally a bad idea to concentrate your wealth in any single investment , especially one highly correlated with your background risk ( i.e. , if the company does poorly you will already be worse off because you may lose your job or see fewer advancement opportunities . No need to add losses in your savings to that ) . 1 Please note : I am neither advocating nor discouraging buying guns , gold , or other controversial real assets . I 'm just giving examples of items some people buy as part of their wealth-preservation strategy .
end question
start question
What is the difference between PPF and NSC saving schemes ?
I believe you are talking about Public Provident Fund and National Savings Certificate schemes in India . <URL> - > Deposit money - > If you want to take a loan after 3 years , you can take out 25 % of the balance in your PPF account . <URL> - > Money locked for 6 years and can only be encashed after 3 years , you cancel your deposit and encash all your money . Money is safe in both cases , because they are secured by the Indian government . But interest ( 8.75 % at present for both in 2014-15 financial year ) is compunded anually for PPF , but half yearly for NSC . So you get a higher interest rate in case of NSC . So if you can lock in your money , without any need for withdrawls , choose a NSC for higher returns . Tax rebate wise , both are same .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
Congratulations . The first savings goal should be an emergency fund . Think of this not as an investment , but as insurance against life 's woes . They happen and having this kind of money earmarked allows one to invest without needing to withdraw at an inopportune time . This should go into a " high interest " savings account or money market account . Figure three to six months of expenses . The next goal should be retirement savings . In the US this is typically done through 401K or if your company does not offer one , either a ROTH IRA or Traditional IRA . The goal should be about 15 % of your income . You should favor a 401k match over just about anything else , and then a ROTH over that . The key to transforming from a broke college student into a person with a real job , and disposable income , is a budget . Otherwise you might just end up as a broke person with a real job ( not fun ) . Part of your budget should include savings , spending , and giving . All three areas are the key to building wealth . Once you have all of those taking care of the real fun begins . That is you have an emergency fund , you are putting 15 % to retirement , you are spending some on yourself , and giving to a charity of your choice . Then you can dream some with any money left over ( after expenses of course ) . Do you want to retire early ? Invest more for retirement . Looking to buy a home or own a bunch of rental property ? Start educating yourself and invest for that . Are you passionate about a certain charity ? Give more and save some money to take time off in order to volunteer for that charity . All that and more can be yours . Budgeting is a key concept , and the younger you start the easier it gets . While the financiers will disagree with me , you can not really invest if you are borrowing money . Keep debt to zero or just on a primary residence . I can tell you from personal experience that I did not started building wealth until I made a firm commitment to being out of debt . Buy cars for cash and never pay credit card interest . Pay off student loans as soon as possible . For some reason the idea of giving to charity invokes rancor . A cursory study of millionaires will indicate some surprising facts : most of them are self made , most of them behave differently than pop culture , and among other things most of them are generous givers . Building wealth is about behavior . Giving to charity is part of that behavior . Its my own theory that giving does almost no good for the recipient , but a great amount of good for the giver . This may seem difficult to believe , but I ask that you try it .
In the US ( and apparently the UK ) , Renters insurance is an umbrella policy that generally includes some liability coverage in case of damages caused by the insured as well as coverage for contents , and often includes a stipend to cover expenses from finding temporary shelter should it be needed . Contents insurance just covers the property owned by/in possession of the insured . This can be limited by type of damage , so if you are on the top floor you do not need to worry as much about flooding , as if you are on a lower floor . But the savings are generally very small . On a 100k policy in the US typically the difference between renters and content coverage is less than $ 20 a year . Typically content coverage is for people with valuable assets ( original artwork , jewelry , etc ) in excess of what standard liability and property coverage would be needed . This would usually be purchased in addition to a rental or owners policy . Though you could choose to protect your contents with out a liability protection policy . Tenant coverage appears to be the equivalent of the General Liability policy in the US . It would protect the tenant from liability in case of damage caused by them to the rental property or other tenants .
No functional difference . Only impression/convenience . " Business checks " are checks in larger format ( 8 " instead of the regular 5 " checks ) , they can be from your personal account just as well . I did n't have any problem using the small " individual " - standard checks for my company ( I actually did get them for free from Wells Fargo , but that was a gesture , not by policy ) .
Most people elect to have these deducted pre-tax because it reduces your taxable income . That mean that it is pulled from your income before social security , medicare , state and federal taxes are calculated . The reduction of pre-tax income can also make other deductions possible if it keeps your annual taxable income low enough , this really only impacts a few people , and would be considered a bonus benefit . Bottom line for most people pre-tax payments results in a higher take home pay . The only reason I could find to make your health insurance premiums post-tax would be because that keeps your wages high when calculating monthly income for social security benefits . This would only impact people who were either near retirement , or were close to not making enough money in a quarter to potentially not get credit for the quarter . One other distinction was that if the premiums were made pre-tax you can only change your insurance if you had a life event . Post-tax premiums did allow you to make insurance changes without needing a life event . Again this would only impact a small number of people .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
" Cleared " means that the transaction is settled at the bank/merchant . An example would be when you pay a credit card bill , the bank will acknowledge receipt of your payment at some point . " Reconciled " means that you 've verified the account against your records . In this case , you want to verify your future dated transactions against the actual statement received from the bank/merchant .
Devaluation is a relative term , so if you want to protect yourself against devaluation of your currency against dollars - just buy dollars . Inflation is something you can not protect yourself against because it is something that describes the purchasing power of the money . You will still need to purchase , and usually with money . A side effect of inflation is usually devaluation against other currencies . So one of the ways to deal with inflation is not to keep the money in your currency over time , and only convert from a more stable currency when you need to make purchases . Another way is to invest in something tangible that can easily be sold ( for example , jewelery and precious metals , but it has other risks ) . Re whats legal and illegal in your country - we do n't really know because you did n't tell what country that is to begin with , but the usual channels like travelers ' checks or bank transfer should work . Carrying large amounts of cash are usually either illegal or strictly regulated .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
Federal taxes are generally lower in Canada . Canada 's top federal income tax rate is 29 % ; the US rate is 35 % and will go to 39.6 % when Bush tax cuts expire . The healthcare surcharge will kick in in a few years , pushing the top bracket by a few more points and over 40 % . State/provincial taxes are lower in the US . You may end up in the 12 % bracket in New York City or around 10 % in California or other " bad " income-tax states . But Alberta is considered a tax haven in Canada and has a 10 % flat tax . Ontario 's top rate is about 11 % , but there are surtaxes that can push the effective rate to about 17 % . Investment income taxes : Canada wins , narrowly . Income from capital gains counts as half , so if you 're very rich and live in Ontario , your rate is about 23 % and less than that in Alberta . The only way to match or beat this deal in the US in the long term is to live in a no-income-tax state . Dividends are taxed at rates somewhere between capital gains and ordinary income - not as good a deal as Bush 's 15 % rate on preferred dividends , but that 15 % rate will probably expire soon . Sales taxes : US wins , but the gap is closing . Canada has a national VAT-like tax , called GST and its rate came down from 7 % to 5 % when Harper became the Prime Minister . Provinces have sales taxes on top of that , in the range of 7-8 % ( but Alberta has no sales tax ) . Some provinces " harmonized " their sales taxes with the GST and charge a single rate , e.g. Ontario has a harmonized sales tax ( HST ) of 13 % ( 5 +8 ) . 13 % is of course a worse rate than the 6-8 % charged by most states , but then some states and counties already charge 10 % and the rates have been going up in each recession . Payroll taxes : much lower in Canada . Canadian employees ' CPP and EI deductions have a low threshold and top out at about $ 3,000 . Americans ' 7.65 % FICA rate applies to even $ 100K , resulting in a tax of $ 7,650 . Property taxes : too dependent on the location , hard to tell . Tax benefits for retirement savings : Canada . If you work in the US and do n't have a 401 ( k ) , you get a really bad deal : your retirement is underfunded and you 're stuck with a higher tax bill , because you ca n't get the deduction . In Canada , if you do n't have an RRSP at work , you take the money to the financial company of your choice , invest it there , and take the deduction on your taxes . If you do n't like the investment options in your 401 ( k ) , you 're stuck with them . If you do n't like them in your RRSP , contribute the minimum to get the match and put the rest of the money into your individual RRSP ; you still get the same deduction . Annual 401 ( k ) contribution limits are use-it-or-lose-it , while unused RRSP limits and deductions can be carried forward and used when you need to jump tax brackets . Canada used to lack an answer to Roth IRAs , but the introduction of TFSAs took care of that . Mortgage interest deduction : US wins here as mortgage interest is not deductible in Canada . Marriage penalty : US wins . Canadian tax returns are of single or married-filing-separately type . So if you have one working spouse in the family or a big disparity between spouses ' incomes , you can save money by filing a joint return . But such option is not available in Canada ( there are ways to transfer some income between spouses and fund spousal retirement accounts , but if the income disparity is big , that wo n't be enough ) . Higher education : cheaper in Canada . This is not a tax item , but it 's a big expense for many families and something the government can do about with your tax dollars . To sum it up , you may face higher or lower or about the same taxes after moving from US to Canada , depending on your circumstances . Another message here is that the high-tax , socialist , investment-unfriendly Canada is mostly a convenient myth .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
Whole life insurance accumulates a cash value on a pre-tax basis . With a paid-up policy , you make payments until a particular age ( usually 65 or 70 ) , at which point you are insured for the rest of your life or a very old age like 120 . You can also access this pool of money via loans while you are still alive , but you reduce your benefit until you repay the loans . This may be advantageous if you have a high net worth . Also , if you own a business or farm , a permanent policy may be desirable if the transfer of your property to heirs is likely to generate alot of transactional costs like taxes . Nowadays there are probably better ways to do that too . Whole life/universal life is a waste of money 95 % + of the time . An example , my wife and I were recently offered open-enrollment ( no medical exam ) insurance policies our employers in New York . We 're in our early 30 's . I bought a term policy paying about $ 400k which costs $ 19/mo . My wife was offered a permanent policy that pays $ 100k which costs $ 83/mo , and would have a cash value of $ 35k at age 65 . If you invested the $ 60/mo difference between those policies and earned 5 % / year with 30 % taxes on the gains , you 'd have over $ 40k with 4x more coverage .
If you can get a rate of savings that is higher than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That makes the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what are you goals ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , further your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transactions in cash you will be better off . If it were me I would do what I think is a parroting of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit cards and other unsecured debt . Save up several months of living expenses as cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bit on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amazing things when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It is n't easy to do what you have accomplished and you will lead a simpler life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
The ratings that you see are usually <URL> . The <URL> publishes several different kinds of ratings that are designed to measure " the creditworthiness of an issuer or debt obligation " , i.e. how close the company is to insolvency , how financially stable it is , etc. . In short , it 's a rating of the financial strength of the company . For most consumers , these ratings probably are n't anything more than a formality , since most major insurers are solid companies . Of course , these ratings break down when companies are n't estimating their potential for losses correctly , hence the bailout of AIG after its fiasco with credit default swaps . The <URL> AM Best uses is somewhat complex . They state that : Our rating process involves a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company 's balance sheet strength , operating performance and business profile . This includes comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans , philosophy and management . I 'm fairly certain that these ratings apply to all types of insurers , including re-insurers , as well as some of the securities they offer . <URL> and <URL> also publish ratings of insurance companies , but AM Best is known for focusing almost exclusively on the insurance industry . All of these ratings are financial strength ratings , however , which is n't necessarily indicative of how appropriate their products will be for you . I 'm sure there are other ratings too , e.g. customer service ratings , that you could find somewhere , but I do n't know of any specific ones off the top of my head . The financial strength of a company is more relevant when you buy a life insurance policy or an annuity , because you want the company to be viable for a long time . In this case , you should consider the financial strength ratings as part of your evaluation before purchasing such a policy .
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
Current typically refers to a time line shorter than 12 months . At least that 's what it means in the US , I 'd imagine the same applies in the UK . A current asset is something like cash , or a very short term security ; a 9 month CD for example . A current liability can be something like a payable to a vendor . There is also a situation where you have the current portion of a long-term liability . That could be the amount of a long term loan that 's due in the next 12 months .
In broad terms , Child Benefit is a universal benefit paid to anyone earning up to # 50-60 ,000 a year * whilst Child Tax credit is primarily means tested ( for no/low incomes really ) . Both are payable provided the young person is under 20 ( not 18 ) and is in full time non advanced ( up to " A level " standard ) education or certain types of training . Child benefit is reduced in stages if someone in the household has a taxable income over # 50,000 , down to 0 at # 60,000 . Child Tax Credit is being phased out and replaced as a part of " Universal Credit " . It 's quite specific and a little complex so read the official sites : - Child Benefit <URL> - Child Tax Credit <URL> Another site worth trying is <URL> ( not a government site ) but it will point out any benefits , etc that you may be ' entitled to ' from all the available government resources . Do n't be afraid to call HMRC for advice - they 're pretty good when they eventaully answer ! And Citizens Advice and Money Advice Service are free resources that are always handy . Google gave me these as good results : <URL> and <URL> from the well-respected Which ? site . I must end with a disclaimer though : everyone 's situations are different and the benefits system here in the UK is very complex at times . Always seek proper advice and use this type of forum merely as a pointer to the ball-park area . Best of luck .
end question
start question
Can a non dividend-paying product ( say ETF ) suddenly start paying dividends ?
Yes , absolutely . Consider Microsoft , Updated Jan. 17 , 2003 11:59 p.m. ET Software giant Microsoft Corp. , finally bowing to mounting pressure to return some of its huge cash hoard to investors , said it will begin paying a regular annual dividend to shareholders . From <URL> . Thus , for the years prior to 2003 , the company did n't pay dividends but changed that . There can also be some special one-time dividends as Microsoft did the following year according to the <URL> : The $ 32 billion one-time dividend payment , which comes to $ 3 for each share of Microsoft stock , could be a measurable stimulus to the U.S. economy -- and is expected to arrive just in time for holiday shopping . Course companies can also reduce to stop dividends as well .
No , having to borrow money does not necessarily mean a company will have a hard time paying the interest on it . Similarly , having to take out a mortgage on a house does not mean a person will not be able to make their mortgage payments . Borrowing money can be a way to spend future money instead of present money ( at a cost , of course ) . A company might not have all that money at the moment , but that in no way implies they wo n't have it in the future . And as you allude to in your question where you talk about " funding some ... plans " , a company might be able to grow itself -- possibly increasing future profits -- by borrowing money .
HSBC , Hang Seng , and other HK banks had a series of special savings account offers when I lived in HK a few years ago . Some could be linked to the performance of your favorite stock or country 's stock index . Interest rates were higher back then , around 6 % one year . What they were effectively doing is taking the interest you would have earned and used it to place a bet on the stock or index in question . Technically , one way this can be done , for instance , is with call options and zero coupon bonds or notes . But there was nothing to strategize with once the account was set up , so the investor did not need to know how it worked behind the scenes ... Looking at the deposit plus offering in particular , this one looks a little more dangerous than what I describe . See , now we are in an economy of low almost zero interest rates . So to boost the offered rate the bank is offering you an account where you guarantee the AUD/HKD rate for the bank in exchange for some extra interest . Effectively they sell AUD options ( or want to cover their own AUD exposures ) and you get some of that as extra interest . Problem is , if the AUD declines , then you lose money because the savings and interest will be converted to AUD at a contractual rate that you are agreeing to now when you take the deposit plus account . This risk of loss is also mentioned in the fine print . I would n't recommend this especially if the risks are not clear . If you read the fine print , you may determine you are better off with a multicurrency account , where you can change your HK$ into any currency you like and earn interest in that currency . None of these were " leveraged " forex accounts where you can bet on tiny fluctuations in currencies . Tiny being like 1 % or 2 % moves . Generally you should beware anything offering 50:1 or more leverage as a way to possibly lose all of your money quickly . Since you mentioned being a US citizen , you should learn about IRS form TD F 90-22 .1 ( which must be filed yearly if you have over $ 10,000 in foreign accounts ) and google a little about the " foreign account tax compliance act " , which shows a shift of the government towards more strict oversight of foreign accounts .
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
It all depends on your priorities , but if it were me I 'd work to get rid of that debt as your first priority based on a few factors : Government student loans are especially difficult to discharge in bankruptcy , so it is a slightly riskier than average type of debt . As I 'm sure you know . Getting a 6.8 % is almost impossible with low risk . You can get an almost guaranteed 6.8 % return on paying down that debt . I might shift towards the house if you think you can save enough to avoid PMI , as the total savings would probably be more in aggregate if you plan on buying a house anyway with less than 20 % down . Of course , all this is lower priority than funding your retirement at least up to the tax advantaged and/or employer matched maximums , but it sounds like you have that covered .
No , it is not for the reason you suspect . Some long-term investors might actually allocate a small percentage of a diversified portfolio to a commodity ETF , as a hedge . Rather , the obvious reason ( and it really should be obvious ! ) is that a hunk of metal or a barrel of oil do n't by themselves generate any cash flow . There simply is nothing to distribute . Worse yet -- it actually costs money to store and maintain physical commodities somewhere . Even if the commodity ETF is synthetic and uses derivatives , and no physical storage is required , there are bankers with mouths to feed . If you are interested in dividends , I suggest you look at a novel legal structure known as a " corporation " . Many corporations are adept at generating profits , and some even distribute a portion of their profits . There are even corporations who specialize in extracting commodities from the ground , if you want to still have exposure to hunks of metal , etc. while getting some yield . Bear in mind that a company that extracts something from the ground is n't the same thing as the thing from the ground . They wo n't necessarily move together .
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
There are two ways to avoid tax on a prize : Refuse the prize completely . Follow the IRS procedures to have your prize directly sent to a charity . ( If you accept the prize and then later donate to charity , you still have to report it as income . ) Neither of these gets the prize to your family , so , if that 's your goal , you 're stuck with the tax . If you want to avoid the tax and do n't care about getting the prize ( for yourself or for your kid ) , you have options . As this Forbes article notes , that you have option # 1 at all is a little surprising in the context of the rest of US tax law , but it is allowed . ( <URL> ) If you want to exercise option # 2 , you need to carefully read the rules in IRS Pub 525 or other official places because there 's a series of requirements and steps that need to be taken to make this happen legally .
Basically , yes . That does n't mean that it 's easy to do . The government provides a dividend tax credit since an individual takes on more risk to invest in dividend-paying corporations rather than trading their human capital for an income . Thus , for the most part , $ 1 earned from dividends is taxed much less than $ 1 earned from income or interest . Finally , note that foreign dividends are not eligible for the dividend tax credit , and are not preferentially taxed .
With the warning that I 've recently read a series of comments to an article " <URL> , " I 'd advise against this . You gain little in that 9 months given the very high limits for deposits , and would just be better off waiting till the baby is keeping you up at night . As Frazell replied , he is correct . I 'd still not do it .
A few things . tl ; dr yes it would hurt your score , depending on your current status It will affect your " Average Age of Accounts " . This has a medium impact on your credit score . If you have a bunch of new accounts on your credit it will reduce your score . Ideally what you want is good long term cards that you do n't plan on canceling . The upper brackets of age for an account is 20 years , that 's a long time . If you repeat this process you 'll have a lot of inquiries on your report . When a lender goes to check your report and sees a bunch of inquiries they might think you 're trying to rack up a bunch of debt . While inquiries stay on your account for 2 years they do only affect your credit for 1 year . Utilization could also be affected . This is your total debt balance / available revolving credit . If you have $ 10,000 in available credit through 5 credit cards combined and a $ 3,000 balance combined you are at 30 % utilization . The sweet spot is no more than 30 % . Utilization is often the most misunderstood . It has no memory . By that I mean if you had 100 % utilization last month and you knock down all of your balances to $ 0 the next time you pull your report after all of the lenders have reported it 'll be 0 % and last month 's 100 % will be gone , forever . Another important note is that even if you pay off your balance in full , when you get your statement balance that is what is reported to the credit bureaus . Lets say you have a card with a $ 1,000 limit and you get a statement for $ 900 . Even if you pay it off in full its going to report as $ 900 . If you 're trying to maximize your rewards you 're better off finding cards you want in the long term . Even with annual fees you can generally get more rewards than the fee .
You 'd be moving from 33.5 K of taxable income + 16.5 K of untaxable income , to 65K of taxable income ( worst case ) . So the question is whether the net from the extra 31.5 K of taxable income is more than the 16.5 K , and since marginal tax rates in the relevant brackets are no more than 32 % according to the table you posted ( 22 % federal and 10 % provincial ) , it 's definitely a win to move jobs . More precisely , the marginal tax rate is 25 % on the first 8044 ( 41544-33500 ) and 32 % on the rest , making for total extra tax of about 9.5 K and thus net income ( beyond the 33.5 K baseline ) of 22K . Compared to the 16.5 K this leaves you 5.5 K up . If you end up at the 70K end , you 're another 3.4 K up beyond that .
<URL> will let you calculate the savings from making a prepayment right away . Run it twice : once with a smaller initial balance , and once with the high balance and the prepayment . If you add the extra $ 10k to your down payment , your monthly payment will be lower . The higher monthly payment you will have with the $ 10k in your first payment means that you 'll be paying more principal every month , right from the beginning . Using the calculator above with a $ 200k mortgage at 5 % fixed for 30y : if you use the $ 10k as a prepayment , you 'll save about $ 22k in interest over the life of the loan , which will be shortened by 38 months . Bottom line : do n't put it into the down payment . But also see <URL> for the trade-off here . That 's assuming a US mortgage , which is different from Canada . I ran the same numbers using <URL> and came up roughly the same amount . ( I find the first calculator above much easier to use , if you are n't worried about losing a little precision in the numbers . )
What you are probably interested in doing is a variant of the <URL> of paying down your debt . For an online calculator using a method like what you described , check out <URL> . Here 's the description from the site itself : Snowballing is all about paying your debts in the correct order . Generally speaking you should attempt to pay off the debts with the highest interest rate first . Some people , such as Dave Ramsey suggest you pay the card with the smallest balance first , that 's fine , and can help you feel you 're getting rid of the debt quicker , but it 's not the most efficient way . This calculator allows you to enter up to 20 different debts with their associated APRs , and the total amount you want to spend per month servicing your debts , and it 'll work out the order in which you should pay them together with the monthly payments . [ ... ] [ emphasis mine ] The tool appears to do what you are looking for . Note : The site is in the U.K. and the currency symbol shown is ' # ' , but if you ignore that and look at numbers only , it ought to calculate reasonable results for other countries .
Wikipedia has a fairly detailed explanation of ETFs . <URL>
There generally is n't much in the way of real identity verification , at least in the US and online . The protection you get is that with most credit cards you can report your card stolen ( within some amount of time ) and the fraudulent charges dropped . The merchant is the one that usually ends up paying for it if it gets charged back so it 's usually in the merchant 's best interest to do verification . However the cost of doing so ( inconvenience to the customer , or if it 's an impulse buy , giving them more time to change their mind , etc ) is often greater than the occasional fraudulent charge so they usually do n't do too much about it unless they 're in a business where it 's a frequent problem .
Say you have a $ 2000 credit card bill due two weeks from today . If you are paid every other week , it 's today 's check that will pay it . Why not just get it off your desk ? You ca n't spend it on anything else , so it 's not really on hand as liquid cash to use . Much of my life , savings had a 5 % rate of return . So , $ 100/yr or $ 2 per week on this money . If you have a bill pay that offers a same day direct payment , use it . But if you are mailing checks , the game of paying at the last moment will cost you with just one mistake . I respect how that $ 2/wk adds up over a full budget , but rates are near zero , and the $ 10K in my checking returns pennies . I visit and set up my bill pay up each week and pay anything outstanding . Even if it 's set for two weeks out , I enter it in the check register as gone .
foreign income , transfer it to my savings account in India Yes you can transfer to India . The right account would be NRO/NRE . As an NRI one should not hold a regular savings account . forum that foreign income is not taxable unless used to buy stocks , fds etc If you are an NRI , income earned outside of India is not taxable in India . However any income you generate in India is taxable , i.e. interest income , gains from shares etc. . Do we need to pay taxes for the money transferred No tax if you are an NRI even if you transfer funds to India . Taxation does not depend on whether or not you transfer the money , it depends on your status used to pay home EMIs or principle amount ? You can use the money for what ever you like .
Yes , some mutual funds may have the expense ratio decline as the fund gains more assets . Look at the history of the Vanguard 500 Index as an example over the years where it used to be about 20 basis points but has dropped a few as the assets have gotten very large .
end question
start question
How to map stock ticker symbols to ISIN ( International Securities Identification Number ) ?
There is no simple way to convert an ISIN into a stock ticker symbol . The only way to even attempt to do so is to map the ISIN to a CUSIP or SEDOL or other national identifier and then map that identifier to a stock ticker symbol .
Sale of a stock creates a capital gain . It can be offset with losses , up to $ 3000 more than the gains . It can be deferred when held within a retirement account . When you gift appreciated stock , the basis follows . So when I gifted my daughter 's trust shares , there was still tax due upon sale . The kiddy tax helped reduce but not eliminate it . And there was no quotes around ownership . The money is gone , her account is for college . No 1031 exchange exists for stock .
No , not only . OTC stocks are stocks not traded on regulated exchanges , but these are still stocks that represent shares of ownership in various companies . There may be numerous reasons why the company would not be trading on a regulated exchange . There are many privately held companies which are n't officially listed on a regulated exchange , but which stocks are popular and sought after . For example , Facebook was trading on OTC for quite a while before their IPO because they were not listed publicly yet some people had shares that they could trade ( some early employees/investors with fully vested stocks were selling them OTC ) . Another example would be many companies <URL> for one reason or another ( many times companies late with their SEC filings get delisted from a regulated exchange , yet there are retail investors owning stocks trying to get rid of , or buy some while they 're cheap ) . If you believe the company now in trouble will get better - you 'd want to invest in it even if it is not listed on a regulated exchange .
Use VTIVX . The " Target Retirement 2045 " and " Target Retirement 2045 Trust Plus " are the same underlying fund , but the latter is offered through employers . The only differences I see are the expense ratio and the minimum investment dollars . But for the purposes of comparing funds , it should be pretty close . Here is the <URL> Also , note that the " Trust Plus " has n't been around as long , so you do n't see the returns beyond the last few years . That 's another reason to use plain VTIVX for comparison . See also : <URL>
On a summary level , there are three conceptual ways of clearing money electronically . Immediate clearing , where banks ( often , but not necessarily ) with support of the supervisory entities , send immediate drawing rights against their own cash reserves , and dedicate this right to the account of the receiving customer . This is rather expensive , as it limits the banks ability to use their cash reserves for their own banking operations ( crediting etc ) . This is often the only way to wire significant ( in comparison to the bank size ) amounts of money . Internal clearing , where the money actually never leaves the bank - it 's just moved between accounts of two different customers of the same bank . It 's usually free , as the bank is still free to use your money to do it 's banking , and it 's usually immediate since nothing actually needs to happen besides a change in the banks entries . Batch clearing , where banks submit outstanding requests against each other , and calculate the net settlement . Basically , when you from bank A wire money to me in bank B , there is a high chance that a similar amount of money is wired between two other users it the opposite direction . After a bit of accounting the net imbalance is computed ( and often drawn via immediate clearing ) but the bulk of the money actually never leaves any of the banks , it just is reassigned between each banks customers as per agreed books . There are also additional ways where companies decide to open accounts in each of the banks and provide some sort of immediate clearing backed by the operators cash reserves rather than the banks . . and so on . . How does it happen in Indonesia ? I have no idea , but I think a good overview of how it happens around the world is a publication by a partner entity of ours ; <URL> If you are really curious , I 'd research under what legal form does Paypal Indonesia operate ( it should be somewhere in the archives ) and figure out what other wiring options are available .
The <URL> requires that banks assist the U.S. Gov ' t in identifying and preventing money laundering . This means they 're required to keep records of cash transactions of <URL> , and report any such transactions with a daily aggregate limit of a value greater than ( or equal to ? ) $ 10,000 . Because of this , the business which is issuing the money order is also required to record this transaction to report it to the bank , who then holds the records in case FinCEN wants to review the transactions . EDITED : Added clarification on the $ 10,000 rule
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
Use a currency ETF . there are many . Specific to your question there is <URL> I do n't happen to find a currency ETF for Thailand , so the closest you could come to a Thai currency fund would be something that 's an Index fund ETF that is based on an index in the Thai Market such as : <URL> Because that fund is investing in an index of stocks that trade on the Thai market , you are in effect investing in something denominated in Baht . This is spelled out in the prospectus where it discusses ' currency risk ' . The problem is that you are however not investing in just the currency , but rather a broad index of stocks denominated in that currency . Still to the extent the market holds fairly steady , you get much the same effect of investing in just the currency . to the extent the market is moving , you get the net effect of what the thai market does , plus how the bhat trades relative to the dollar .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
After a bit of rooting around the HMRC sites , I found <URL> which says this : One key difference is that digitised products are classed as electronically-supplied services for VAT and customs duties . These services are : downloaded software downloaded images , text or information electronic publications downloaded music , films and games electronic auctions supply of websites or web-hosting services For VAT purposes , the place of supply of these services is the country in which the customer lives . If you supply electronic services to a business customer in another European Union ( EU ) country , the customer accounts for any VAT due in that country . You should not charge UK VAT . If you supply electronic services to a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country , you have to account for UK VAT . If you supply electronic services to anyone in a country outside the EU , you do n't pay any VAT . If , as a UK business , you buy electronic services from a company outside the UK , you have to account for VAT . If I read this correctly , I as the supplier of the website need to account for VAT only if the sponsor is a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country . It is not covered in this site , but I assume I must also account for VAT for a customer based in the UK . So in answer to the original question , a customer from Canada ( which is currently outside the EU ) would account for the VAT themselves , and I would simply charge the gross amount .
If it 's just an ordinary credit card I 'd think he could merely dispute the charges , since he 's saying they ' created ' ( which I presume means applied for and received ) a card , it should not affect his accounts directly . And especially since application details may be bogus , he should be able to prove it was not him . Even if they got HIS credit card number , he should be able to dispute those charges that are not his , especially if they went to a different address , or were charged someplace ( like another city ) where he was not present at that time . OTOH , if they created a DEBIT card that was linked to his bank account somehow , well then , that could be a lot more difficult to recover from , but even then , if it 's not his signature that was used to apply for the card , or on any charges that had to be signed for etc , he should be able to dispute it and get the bank to put the money back in his account since it will be a case of forgery etc. . The big problem with ID theft is people tend to ruin your credit rating , and you end up having to fend off bill collectors etc. . The primary thing it costs you ( speaking from experience of having checks stolen and forged using a fake drivers license ) is the TIME and hassle of getting everything straightened out and put right . In my case it took a few hours at the credit union , and all the money was back , in a new account ( the old one having been closed ) when I left . Dealing with all the poor merchants that were taken , and with bill collectors on the other hand took months . but I never once in the process needed ' quick money ' from anyone . So the need for ' quick money ' seems a bit doubtful . I 'd want a lot more details of exactly why he needs money from you . Refer your friend to this <URL> and make sure he takes the steps listed , and especially pays attention to the parts about keeping notes of every single person he talks with , including name , date , time , and pertinent details of the conversation . If he has some idea HOW this happened ( as in a robbery ) then report it to the proper authorities , and insist on getting a case number . talking with bill collectors is the worst , just trying to get ahold of them when they send you letters ( and talk to a person , not a recorded number with instructions on how to pay them ) is sometimes nearly impossible ( google was my friend ) and a lot of times they did n't want to back off till I gave them the case number with the police , that somehow magically made it ' real ' to them and not just my telling them a story .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
One alternative strategy you may want to consider is writing covered calls on the stock you have " just sitting there " . This will allow you to earn a return ( the premium from the calls ) without necessarily having to give up your holding . As a brief overview , " options " are derivatives that give the holder the right ( or option ) to buy or sell shares at a specified price . Holders of call options with a strike prike $ x on a particular security have the right to purchase that security at the strike price $ x. Conversely , holders of put options with a strike price of $ x have the right to sell that security at the strike price $ x. Always on the other side of a call or put option is a person that has sold the option , which is called " writing " the option . If this person writes a call option , then he will be obligated to sell a certain amount of stock ( 100 shares per contract ) at the strike price if that option is exercised . A writer of a put option will be obligated to by 100 shares per contract at the strike price if that option is exercised . Covered calls involve writing call contracts on stock that you own . For example , say you own 100 shares of AAPL , and that AAPL is currently trading for $ 330 . You decide to write a Jan 21 , 2012 call on these shares at a strike price of $ 340 , earning you a premium of say $ 300 . Two things can now happen : if the price of AAPL is not at least $ 340 on January 21 , then the options are " out of the money " and will expire unexercised ( why exercise an option to buy at $ 340 when you can buy at the currently cheaper market price ? ) . You keep your AAPL stock plus the $ 300 premium you earn . If , however , the price of AAPL is greater than $ 340 , the option will be exercised and you will now be required to sell the shares you own at $ 340 . You will earn a return of $ 10/share ( $ 340 - $ 330 ) , plus the $ 300 premium from the call option . You still make out in the end , but have unfortunately incurred an opportunity cost , as had you not written the call option you would have been able to sell at the market price , which is higher than the $ 340 strike price . Covered calls are considered relatively safe and conservative , however the strategy is most effective for stocks that are expected to stay within a relatively narrow price range for the duration of the contract . They do provide one option of earning additional money on stocks you are currently holding , albeit at the risk of giving up some returns if the stock price rises above the strike price .
It will be similar to what you have said -- the options price will adjust accordingly following a stock split - Here 's a good reference on different scenarios - <URL> also if you have time to read <URL>
The short answer : it depends . The long answer . . Off the top of my head , there are quite a number of factors that an analyst may look at when analyzing a stock , to come up with a recommendation . Some example factors to look at include : Trading volume Moving average Fundamental analysis Price momentum Credit worthiness Strength of balance sheet Future outlook for the sector Product pipeline Dividend growth Employee turnover rate Sales per Square Meter of store space Asset turnover Age of capital assets Supply pipeline ( e.g. does the company buy supplies ( inputs ) for its products from only ethical sources ? ) ... etc. . The list goes on . Quite literally , any and all factors are fair game for a recommendation . So , the question is n't really what analysts do with financial data , it is what do analysts do with financial data that meets your investment needs ? As an example , if you have two analysts , one who is focused on growth stocks , and one who is focused on dividend growth , they may have completely different views on a company . If both analysts were to analyze Apple ( AAPL ) 5 years ago , the dividend analyst would likely say SELL or at the most HOLD , because back then Apple did not have a dividend . However , an analyst focused on growth would likely have said BUY , because Apple appeared to be on a clear upward trend in terms of growth . Likewise , if you have analysts who are focused on shorting stocks , and ones who are focused on deep value investing , the sell analyst may be selling SELL because they are confident the stock will go down in price , so you can make money on the short position . Conversely , the deep value investor may be saying BUY , because they believe that based on the companies strong balance sheet , and recent shake-ups in management the stock will eventually turn around . Two completely different views for the same company : the analyst focused on shorting is looking to make money by capitalizing on falling share price , while the analyst focused on deep value is looking for unloved companies in a tailspin whom s/he believe will turn around , the thesis being that if you dollar-cost-average as the price drops , when it corrects , you 'll reap the rewards . That all said , to answer the question about what analysts look for : A growth analyst may be focused on things such as future earnings growth , future revenue growth , mixed with decreasing operational costs , and product pipeline : earnings growth roughly translates into higher share prices , and if you are chasing growth , you want companies whose bottom lines are going up on a consistent basis . An analyst focused on dividends may be focused on the dividend payout ratio , dividend growth history , and earnings growth . They would n't necessarily care about capital appreciation vis-a-vis a rising stock price , since they are concerned primarily with the income stream a company produces , the and the probability that the dividend will increase ( or at least be maintained ) . An analyst in the health care sector may be interested in the product pipeline , the company 's history of R&amp;D , the company 's history of acquisitions ( e.g. buying new products vs. building new products ) , or the probability of that company being bought out by a larger competitor ( e.g. . A firm in Stage III of clinical , with a relatively small valuation would be a great takeover target for a larger pharmaceutical ) . So really , you should be looking for analysts who align with your investment style , and use those recommendations as a starting point for your own purchases . Personally , I am a dividend investor , so I have passed many BUY recommendations from analysts and my former broker because those were based on growth stories . That does not mean that the analysts , my former broker , or myself , are wrong . But we were all incorrect given the context of how I invest , and what they recommend .
OP wants to do something very honourable , applause for that . Being a Greek I have insider knowledge about the impact of various organisations . Fact is , for people from abroad what is the most highly recommended action would be to support organisations of an international network ( red cross , doctors w/out borders etc ) , because the health system is suffering seriously nowadays - or access to it - , and providing redundancy in that respect can certainly make a difference , via global health efforts . The next best thing you can do , to yourself and others , is basically to take a vacation in Greece and visit both a big city ( here 's where the problems will be visible ) and an island ( here 's where you 'll realise that you are in a place of stunning natural beauty ) . By taking this action you achieve two things : you put the economy in motion - a small vote , yet it counts - and you actually are a first-person observer . Enough is enough with victimisation via the news coming from inside or outside Greece ! People need get the whole respective .
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
end question
