start question
How does food cook differently on an open top grill than a covered one ?
I believe it is kind of like the difference between broiling and baking . " Open top grill " only cooks from underneath ( kind of like broiling but not from above ) . Baked or " covered " grill will distribute the heat more evenly . For more information see : <URL> That 's where I double checked my assumption and got the metaphor of broiling and baking .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
Use of a double boiler limits the maximum temperature the food being cooked can reach . The water in the lower part of the double boiler can only reach 100 * C ( 212 * F ) before it boils . The food being cooked , therefore , can only reach a maximum temperature of 100 * C ( 212 * F ) . It ca n't go over that until all the water in the lower pot has boiled off .
Olives ( and onions ) are a very traditional garnish used by bartenders to add a slightly savory flavor to a drink . As with many things behind the bar , they 're used nowadays largely because they 're iconic , but they do have a subtle effect on flavor . It 's not really known where traditional garnishes such as citrus peels , cherries , olives/onions , and mint sprigs originated , but they 're found in the earliest known published bartender 's manual . ( This was <URL> ' How to Mix Drinks or the Bon-Vivant 's Companion ; cocktail historian David Wondrich 's book <URL> , which reorganizes and provides context for the original , is required reading for the modern cocktail nerd . ) These garnishes may have started with early drink families called cobblers and juleps which feature fresh berries and mint , respectively . Over time , drinks got more elaborate and drinkers came to expect something added to their drinks to give them more visual appeal . <URL> . At first , as seen in other early bartending guides , bartenders just tossed whatever they had ( usually preserved or pickled items that kept well including nuts , olives , and cherries ) into the drink on hand . Eventually they sorted themselves out and figured out that olives or onions went best with savory drinks such as the Martini , and cherries went best with sweeter drinks such as the Manhattan . The tradition solidified a few years before <URL> in the US , and was one of the practices that survived the resulting upheaval in drinking traditions . In the 1950s , Martini practices grew more variable ; when ordering , you 'd be quizzed about whether you wanted vodka or gin , shaken or stirred , an olive or a twist , without any particular standard . The olive may have become even more tightly associated with the Martini later on , when drinks began skewing to sweet and fruity in the late 1960s and 1970s , and fresh citrus started disappearing behind the bar . For whatever reason , bartenders also seem to have forgotten how to store vermouth ( which , since it 's a wine , will go off if stored at room temperature and allowed to oxidize ) and the olives may have been the only thing preventing Martinis from being unpleasantly bitter . By the 1980s , the " dirty " Martini ( which adds a dash or more of olive brine ) emerged as one of the few options for drinkers who wanted a non-sweet cocktail at a bar . Fortunately , we 've now come full circle , and a Martini closer to the original pre-Prohibition version can be found at many cocktail bars ( usually with a twist of lemon peel ) . But the olive has now been firmly established as the traditional Martini garnish for multiple generations . One of the main reasons that the briny olive works as a garnish is because a small amount of salt is a flavor enhancer , which is why just about every savory dish that we eat ( and some sweet ones , ala salted caramel ) contain at least some salt . There are n't many drinks where salt is added directly , but there are certain drinks ( such as the <URL> ) where it 's an important part of the flavor , and <URL> with a culinary background use a couple drops of salt solution in almost all of their drinks . Some people particularly like this in a Martini , especially if that 's what they 're used to . So , the tl ; dr : It 's now seen as traditional , some people really like the salty flavor it adds , and it works pretty well in a largely savory drink like the Martini .
You probably wont be able to get that exact result with a pastry bag because the almost perfect square grid they are divided into . I still think a pastry bag will be your best bet . I am not sure were you got that picture but my guess is that the tiramisu was machine made and the marks and peaks are from the tooling that was made for the machine to deliver the mascarpone topping . I would try a good sized round tip on a pastry bag and make my dot and slowly raise up and cut it off by stopping the pressure on the bag and pulling straight up . It has worked for me in the past . My background is not in pastry though so you may also just go to a local bakery or wedding cake designer and ask how they would do it . They will probably tell you .
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
TL ; DR = The sweet tea takes longer to cool down because there is a lot more stuff in it to get cold . When cooling unsweetened tea , you are cooling almost pure water ( the tea solids are negligible ) . A 12 ounce glass of unsweetened tea has about , you guessed it , 12 oz ( by weight ) of liquid to cool , or 340 grams ( mass ) . Southern-style sweet tea ( if this is the " sweet tea " you are referring to ) , has a 2:1 ratio ( by volume ) of tea to sugar . A 12 ounce glass of sweet tea has 12 oz ( by weight ) of tea , and 5-6 ounces of sugar ( by weight - 8 oz of sugar by volume = ~ 7 oz by weight ) . This puts the total weight of the beverage at 18 ounces or 510 grams ( by mass ) . The sweet tea , in this example , has 50 % MORE mass than the unsweetened tea ! This extra mass will take more time to cool down , because there is a lot more STUFF to get cold . It occupies the same volume , but there are a LOT more molecules to chill . Compounding factors : Heat Capacity vs. Specific Heat : A detail to this is that a solution of sugar and water has a lower specific heat ( by MASS unit ) than pure water , so the total heat capacity of the sweet tea is not quite 150 % of the heat capacity of the unsweetened tea , but somewhere between 100 % and 150 % . Intuition would put it somewhere in the 130 % -140 % range . Read the <URL> for some details on that calculation . Rest assured , however , that the heat capacity of the sucrose solution is higher than pure water . Conductivity : I 've ignored the thermal conductivity of the solution , since I 'm assuming that the stirring in the tea makes the small conductivity differences between the solutions negligible , but that calculation could be done as well . Convection : Unstirred sweet tea will experience less convection than unstirred unsweetened tea . In the unstirred sweet tea , dense sucrose solution will remain at the bottom while the cold water from the melting ice will sit on the surface ( you can actually see this visually if the tea is sufficiently colored ) . This slows cooling by slowing the mixing of the cold liquid with the warm liquid . In unsweetened tea the cool liquid will sink the bottom , promoting convection and self-mixing . However , convection is a side-issue to the primary point , the total heat capacity of the beverage . And as a final note , explanations like this really make it obvious how annoying it is that US measurements use ounces for both volume AND weight .
First , what you linked seems to be a pressure cooker . Pressure cookers cook completely differently from normal cookers , and yes , they are quicker , but not due to their color . Now on to the actual question . The answer is : probably not . There are lots of factors involved , and the color is n't that important . In baking , you get lots of infrared radiation cooking your food , especially in a small oven with uncovered elements ( toaster oven ) . There , the color can have a significant effect on the rate at which your food is warmed , all other things being equal . Simple example : a steel pan and the same pan colored black . The steel pan will transfer more heat into the food in the same time period ( even though the added dye layer already complicates it , because it reduces the effect somewhat ) . But let 's make the example more realistic . Steel pan vs. alumunium pan colored black . There , the material 's thermal coefficient and its mass will be more important than the color . There are several factors acting in different directions here , so I ca n't tell you which pan will be able to output a specified amount of heat in shorter time ( in fact , I suspect that if you wold plot the needed time against the specified amount of heat , the lines will cross somewhere ) . A really good explanation of everything important for understanding these factors is found <URL> . But your example was n't for a cake pan , it was for a stovetop pot . And there , the color is even less important . On stovetop , the pan is in almost direct contact with a heating plate , and conduction plays a greater role in heating than radiation . The color only matters in radiation , not in conduction . And last , let 's say that you have somehow found a pan which outputs the same amount of heat in a shorter time only because of its color ( this will probably be the black-dyed steel pot from my simple example ) . Does it mean that you will spend less time cooking ? No , it does n't . As a general rule , food which has been warmed gradually tastes much better than food which has been exposed to high heat . There are some exceptions ( most notably , you do n't get caramelization and Maillard below certain temperatures ) , but normally , you do n't want to pump all the heat you have available into your food . You would end up with food which is scorched on the outside and raw on the inside . This is why most foods are prepared on a medium heat setting . And if you find a pan which transfers more heat to your food than usual , it does n't mean that your food will cook faster . It means that you will have to turn down the heat to avoid burning your food . This can have its advantages - especially for your electricity bill - but it does n't result in faster cooking .
You have two delicious choices . Both require a bed of coals , so I 'll start with that . You 'll need to build a fire with the logs stacked ' log cabin ' style , and let the fire burn down to coals . You want a deep red coal , just starting to darken on top . The coals should look something like this . You can bake , or bbq the chicken and asparagus . Both are delicious methods . To bake , wrap the chicken , asparagus and a starch like potato gratin style in layers of tinfoil . Use the starch around the outside , you 'll sacrifice a layer of it as some of it sticks/burns to the tinfoil . Put the most delicate item in the middle , in this case the asparagus , and the chicken around the asparagus . Add a generous amount of butter , salt and pepper and bake for about an hour buried in the coals . Corn or green beans are also very good , and can be sacrificed a little around the outside to preserve your meat and vegetables . I would layer it this way . Now , BBQ . You 'll do it very much like a charcoal BBQ . Keep the grate close to the coals , you can generally test the heat by holding your hand above the grate , you should only be able to keep your hand there for a second or two at most . Grill the chicken like you would on a bbq , and roast the asparagus on a cooler part of the grill . I 'd marinate both before putting them on the grill . I 'd also try to get an aromatic wood like hickory or mesquite , pine will impart a resinous taste .
Like many fruits and vegetables , the sugar level in a plantain increases as it ripens . Green plantains are very starchy and hard . You must cook them to eat them . They can be used much like a potato ( think chopped &amp; put in soups or mashed as a side dish ) . Fried green plantains are referred to as " tostones . " Yellow plantains still require cooking , but they are sweet ( unlike green plantains ) . These work pretty well for frying and steaming . Black ( super-ripe ) plantains do not have to be cooked ; they can be eaten raw . They have soft flesh and a scent like a banana , though still not as sweet as typical bananas . When these super-ripe plantains are fried , they are referred to as " platanos maduros " ( ripe plantains ) or " platanos fritos " ( fried plantains ) . Regarding use by different cultures : Trinidad and Tobago , Honduras and Jamaica : the plantain is either simply fried , boiled or added to a soup . Kerala : ripe plantain is steamed and is a popular breakfast dish . Ghana : boiled plantain is eaten with kontomire stew , cabbage stew or fante-fante ( fish ) stew . The boiled plaintain can be mixed with groundnut paste , pepper , onion and palm oil to make eto , which is eaten with avocado . Southern United States , particularly in Texas , Louisiana and Florida : plantains are most often grilled . Nigeria : plantain is eaten boiled , fried or roasted ; roasted plantain , called booli is usually eaten with palm oil or groundnut . ( <URL> )
To get a shiny , flaky , crackly , light-colored crust on the top of your brownies , there are two effective changes you can make : Beat the brownie batter for longer after adding the eggs . Doing this increases the crust , which is actually meringue . This is what you should try with your box mix , since the sugar is already included in box . Use white sugar ( granulated sugar ) with a from-scratch brownie recipe . Brown sugar and corn syrup contain more moisture than white sugar , which will reduce the shiny crackly crust .
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
The only way to test for capsaicin besides tasting is chemical testing , namely liquid chromatography . Problem is , the same kind of chili can be quite different in heat , even on the same bush it can be quite different from my experience . No idea why , though . Here is one tip on how to check the heat of a chili without actually eating part of it , but still cutting it apart : Cut through the chili below the stem , touch the membranes , touch your tongues , feel the heat . <URL> You can adjust the amount of heat a chili adds to the dish by removing the white membranes . Just add the colored flesh , check for heat , and add membranes until the desired spiciness is obtained . Capsaicin is only produced in the white mebranes in the center . It may move inside the fruit , though . Areas closer to the membranes will be hotter ( like , the seeds ) , than other parts .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
The non-rice paper rolls are probably made with wheat flour instead of rice flour , so they should be just as sturdy and stand up to deep frying as well or better than rice paper , which has always been fairly delicate and hard to work with in my limited experience . Here is an image of flour egg roll wrappers in their uncooked state :
I feel the same as you Anderson . I found that too and you just made me to do some research , which I found they have different smoke points . Unrefined sunflower oil 225 ° F 107 ° C Unrefined peanut oil 320 ° F 160 ° C see the link : <URL> Also , one of the reasons food stick to the pan is the evenness of the temperature of the pan . If you use a thicker pan or copper pan , the heat will be distributed on the pan more evenly and food will stick less . The higher smoke point of oil makes me to believe the oil helps to distribute heat more evenly .
Generally you soak them in a small amount of very hot water for about 10 minutes or until they are as soft as you want them . The flavorful liquid that comes out of that process can be used in salad dressings , soups , sauces , etc. ( A quick way to do this is throw them in a microwave safe bowl with water to cover and microwave for say 3 minutes , then allow to stand . )
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
There are two problems here : Not enough heat reaching the wok/food due to limited contact surface . Part of the heating element not being in contact with a cooling metal ( pan/wok ) and the heat reflected back at it ( not escaping ) . This can result in a large temperature difference between the parts of the element that are in contact with the wok and parts that are not as well as over heating the element . You may still be able to use your wok on portable single burner gas stoves . Otherwise I 'd recommend heeding their advice and not using it on an electric stove . It wo n't make good food with little contact point anyway .
end question
start question
Blowtorch - hardware store vs kitchen store . Is there a difference ?
Yes , there is no real difference . Be aware that if you one from the hardware store , it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch . This usually happens with the very cheap ones . This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something . Aside from that and maybe " esthetically " I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
I have worked in two professsional kitchens . The main kitchen itself ( all the work tables , stoves , floors , refrigerator fronts and so on ) is cleaned after each service , and very thoroughly each night with hot soapy water and sometime sterilizing solution . The insides of refrigerators and other storage areas do n't need to be cleaned that often because everything in them is in sealed containers . They should normally be emptied and wiped out at least once a week , and of course immediately if there is any kind of spill .
Olive oil degrades over time so freshness is important . Some of the higher priced olive oils sit on shelves for a very long time and by time they are sold they can be of lower quality than some mass produced olive oils . I 'd say you 're in the right frame of mind and would recommend finding a brand with a local representative who can trust and know the source and timing of the oil . Many smaller olive oil producers do n't bother with organic certification because of cost , but they have same or better standards . Therefore there is a sweet-spot where you can get quality olive oil similar to organics at decent prices . Keep in mind good olive oil is produced in many places , including Greece , Spain , and Lebanon . Not just Italy .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Yes , it 's safe . It 's not acidic , and thus wo n't corrode the foil or cause it to leach in . Personally , my favorite was to store celery is in the crisper , in a vented tupperware container , lightly moistened . This extends lifetime somewhat .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
As long as the tonkatsu is cooked and then cooled appropriately ( ie relatively quickly ) , then stored at appropriate temperatures ( ie refrigerated ) until consumption , you should be fine . The length of your journey to work will be the main factor - you need to keep the food cool enough , so a cool bag with ice blocks may be in order . Then you need to make sure they remain cool until they are consumed . Whether or not they should be reheated is probably a matter of taste . Also , check your local regulations for selling food for public consumption . It will vary from country to country , but many places will require a kitchen inspection and permit before you can legally sell food .
Potatoes and the plants foliage are a feast for a lot of insects , some good some not so good , but as far as I 'm aware none that will do you any harm . As bmargulies said , do n't worry overly about it . If you 're ' really ' interested , you can take a look at this site , see if you can spot your ' badguy ' :) <URL>
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
I 'm not sure how possible it is to give good and definitive advice on how to store fruits and vegetables generally . The best ways to store food will often depend on the specific kind of food and the purpose you intend for it . So take the following advice as more of hint , as it may be very bad advice for a specific fruit or vegetable . Generally speaking most kinds of vegetable store well in the fridge or on the shelf for few days uncut . How well they keep on the fridge or shelf after you cut them it depends a lot on the actual vegetable . For example , bell peppers seem to do OK in a bag in the fridge when cut , an onion is fine if you cover the cut side in plastic wrap , while a cut potato will dry out . You can freeze pretty much any vegetable , just check the frozen goods section of your grocery store , and safely store them frozen for years . While you probably would n't want to use them as a substitute for uncooked fresh vegetables ( eg . in a leafy salad ) , they can usually be cooked just like you would as if they were fresh . You may not even need to defrost them first , often you can just substitute frozen vegetables directly . Fruits for the most part a different matter . How best to store them , especially when cut , depends a lot on the particular fruit . Generally speaking after being cut most fruit needs to be used soon after or becomes useless for most purposes . You can freeze fruit and this will keep them from spoiling , but most fruit does n't hold up well in the freezer . For a lot of purposes , what you get when you defrost fruit is n't a good a substitute for fresh fruit . While most vegetables will have something at least resembling their original shape and texture after being frozen , many fruits end up like mush . Frozen fruits are mainly only useful for things like filings and jam . When freezing things , fruit or vegetables , always use an air-tight container . In the freezer air flow is your enemy . Foods exposed to the air will soon become freezer burnt . You 'll want to prepare the fruits and vegetables , removing skins , seeds and other inedible or undesirable parts , as doing so after freezing will be harder . You 'll also want to label them with their name and when you froze them . Since you can keep them for years , you can end up with a collection of mystery foods in your freezer if they 're not labelled . Two other possible alternative for longer term storage of fruits and vegetables are dehydration and canning . What you can do with the food after preserving them these ways is generally more limited than freezing . Dehydration often lets you eat the dried food as-is , while canning lets you preserve food in a already cooked form . You can also pickle many vegetables ( and some fruits ) but this essentially turns them into a different kind of food .
The Kansas City Strip and the New York Strip refer to the same cut of meat . Apparently restaurants in New York City in the 1930 's decided they could n't sell a fancy steak named after Kansas City ( where the stockyards and slaughterhouses were located ) . So , they just started calling it a New York Strip . If you want a steak renamed by a egotistical chef , order the New York Strip . If you want a steak named for the cut of beef originally selected by butchers working next to the stockyards , order the Kansas City Strip .
This similar ( also has heavy cream ) recipe from epicurious recommends : " Room temperature , up to 3 days ; refrigerated , at least 3 months . " <URL> ... And that conforms to my personal opinion , as well . I would not freeze it .
Although ours rarely lasts for more than a week , we typically just store it in an airtight container with the rest of the cereal . I would imagine the fat could eventually go rancid , so if you need to store it for weeks or months , either refrigeration or freezing should work . You 'll still want the airtight container , however , to prevent any fridge funk from tainting the taste .
end question
start question
How can I make my seitan a bit firmer ?
i 've only made seitan myself a couple times , and it 's been awhile , but is n't there a point where you drain it and/or squeeze out some moisture ? if so , maybe an extended sit in some sort of press would help . the times i 've made it , i put it in a smoker afterwards , so it was firm because of the low-heat semi-cooking , i guess .
You can use Chuck to make your shredded beef . Cook it for a long time , at a low temperature , until a probe slides in and out of it with no resistance . Braising in a liquid seasoned with spices like cumin , garlic , and chili powder will get you the flavor profile you want ( I recommend either finding a recipe or some trial and error ) .
Before all , if you are not willing to invest more than $ 100 ( USD ) in a machine ( more like $ 350 , but I 'm sure you can scrounge for a decent entry-level machine to get the job done ) , you can stop reading as my suggestion relies on a better machine . That said , quickly browsing Amazon <URL> Here is what is going wrong with your latte : Machine : If you have a Krups it 's pressure probably is n't rated . This is a bad sign as it indicates how well it will " pull " ( brew , make ) the espresso . My guess for most units : Unrated = wo n't pull . Buy a machine with a rated pressure , 15-bar is what to expect . ( I do n't mean to sound snobby ; I got by with a $ 60 Coffeemate for awhile , but they wo n't get you the results you 're asking for ) Bean : Lattes are made with espresso , not coffee ( U.S. ) . You 're using coffee . So start by buying espresso beans instead of dark roast coffee or Folgers . While you 're at it , if you want it to taste like restaurant quality , buy them from a local roaster ( I 'd imagine you can get some mad fresh beans in Africa ) and grind them fresh ( just prior to brewing ) . I prefer a coarser grind to my espresso , you will also need to press the grinds ( " pack " ) in the gruppa ( metal basket of machine ) . Milk : While you 're at it , do n't necessarily use whatever comes out of the fridge . <URL> and <URL> have the dirt on milk and frothing . Basically <URL> . If you have a favorite place in mind for your exemplar latte , go ask them where they get their milk and follow suit . There 's a degree of preference in which milk you use , go with the one you know you prefer and perfect your technique . Frothing/Steaming : You are n't frothing your milk . Buy a machine with a working wand , froth the milk . Actually , frothing the milk is fun and it tastes great all on its own . Note : you do want to get foam on top , this indicates you have properly steamed the milk below ( remember to hold back the foam , and pour only the steamed milk into your latte , then depending on your region 's definition adding a bit of foam on top ) . Container : Add some dignity to life whenever you can . Use ceramic ; you 're at home . Those are the key differences that are causing problems for the latte you want to amp up . Now you can skip the consumer espresso machine advice and get a stove-top setup ( <URL> and use a normal , smallish pot with a whisk for the milk ) , but that takes a smidge more effort in terms of getting it right . Either way , following these guidelines should get that latte much closer to where you want it to be . Basically , the only advantage the shop will have over yours is a bigger machine , overworked employees who might not have the time to care about your coffee at this time , and paper cups .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
" Plastic chocolate " is a form of chocolate used for modeling and shaping decorative elements such as chocolate roses , ribbons and other elements for cakes and desserts . Take about 1 lb . of bittersweet chocolate and melt over a double boiler . When chocolate is melted , stir in 2/3 cup of light corn syrup . Mix until evenly blended and then set aside to cool . When it firms up , wrap tightly in a heavy gauge plastic bag or wrap tightly in plastic wrap . Let sit for several hours or overnight . No need to refrigerate it , ambient temperature is fine . Cut the plastic chocolate into smaller size chunks that will be easy to knead . Begin kneading to soften it . If it gets sticky , use a little cocoa powder but be careful not to dry it out . Knead until pliable and then roll out to desired thickness and cut as desired to shape your sushi rolls , decorative elements , etc. . You can roll it through the roller of a pasta machine to help get it to an even thickness . If you 're wanting the rough look of nori then press some crumpled foil into it after rolling as previously suggested .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
<URL> The point of leaving the cookies to sit on the pan is to dry out the skin so it 'll solidify better . I 'd suggest resting longer ( up to 50 minutes ) or using a hotter oven .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
So , there 's maybe a few things I found to reduce the astringency or bitterness of spinach . If you can reduce the bitterness to a flavor you like first , rather then relying on the sugar to mask or balance astringency ( which it does n't hide so much ) - you can probably end up with a better dessert . One thought is that <URL> the spinach will help counter bitterness . briefly boil your washed spinach , and discard the water . If you 're intending to further cook the spinach afterwards ( as in making a fruit-based halwa ) , cold shocking it might not be needed - It 's possible that discarding the water will be enough , though of course you can try with and without the cold shock to see what works for you . Another thing is astringency can be countered or hidden by soaking in <URL> - Adding a bit of <URL> to your final recipe ( as in some of the fattier nut-style halwas ) should help balance a little bitterness , Pre-soaking the spinach in milk and discarding might work to draw out some of the astringency . Soaking in food grade lime or absorbic acid like lemon juice or vitamin C , might also work . Another option is to consider the source of your spinach - <URL> ( for example ) will likely not have as much of the bitterness in it to begin with , compared to a cooked full grown spinach . Baby spinach is mild enough to be eaten straight in a salad , mild enough that it might even be candied , like <URL> , for a garnish after your dish is complete . You might also consider whether the spinach will work better as a flavoring agent or as a bulk agent in your halwa - many fruit based halwas ( which seems the easiest method ) simply stew the fruit with sugar for a long cooking period , so you need to make sure the spinach as a whole is not going to turn bitter or change while cooking . Other types of halwa may use different ingredients , for different effects - a jelly based or nut-based halwa might easily be flavored with spinach juice ... juice which can be extracted at any point along the process , from raw to well-boiled . Leaving the solids behind may help reduce unwanted flavors - or just make the juice more controllable ( that is , extract the juice when it is a flavor you like , and the lack of the rest of the plant might keep it form changing overmuch ) . You might even consider pairing your spinach with another fruit or vegetable , something complementary or neutral for the bulk removed if you go the juice route - something mild and vegetal might mellow the spinach taste without overriding it ( especially if you watch the proportions and use more spinach flavor , less other flavors ) . Maybe watercress , or celery , asparagus , or bellpepper , something like that that tastes green , or tastes good with spinach . Or you could find a flavor that goes well with the spinach - citrus , or apple , or berries - the kind of flavors that show up on sweet dressings for fresh spinach salads .
Real cheese crackers are always going to be a little greasy . You can reduce this by using a lower fat cheese like mozzarella . I think you 'd benefit by adding some flour to absorb some of the oil . Try starting with a 1/4 to 1/3 ratio of flour to cheese . From what I understand , whole wheat , whole grain , and oat flour are much more friendly to diabetics . You could even try something exotic like mesquite or yellow pea flour .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
The theory is to pasteurize them sous-vide at 57ºC for 1:15 ' . You must be able to control the temperature , so specialized equipment is needed ( ronner or similar ) . The resulting egg has a different texture than ordinary ( and I believe it tastes more ' yolky ' ) . I 've kept homemade mayo for more than two weeks without problem ( off smell / taste ) . Custards are heated , so no pasteurized eggs are needed , just like hollandaise sauce .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
The tomato in shepards pie provides acid and is the main coloring agent of the meat portion of the dish . Any other acid will work in place of it , although which you use will entirely depend on how much you want the flavor profile to stay the same . Adding lemon juice will give your pie a Mediterranean taste , adding others will result in other flavors coming to mind . You could just leave the tomatoes out and use a roux instead of the flour , that should give you about the same mouth feel just tasting onions and lamb .
I do n't see why not , it 's the same process Many commercial brewers make a barley and rye malt for beer ( < 10 % rye ) . A good brewers supply shop should have rye malt too Rye is around ~ 40 % carbohydrate , while barley is ~ 45 % carbohydrate , so rye is not as sweet , but has a more interesting taste ( IMHO ) The differences for making malt rye over malt barley , assuming you have hulled rye : Rye absorbs water faster , so steep for less time ( ~ 30 % less ) Do not let it go mushy or it will not germinate Rye is more fragile with no hull and a thin " skin " . So must be handled more carefully once steeped . If it is damaged it wont germinate Lower germination rate ( due to above ) , so less conversion , so less sugars and flavour Otherwise just follow the normal malt barley process , which is well documented
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
<URL> by Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page has a large section on food pairings . For carrots they mention orange , ginger , lemon , basil and mint . I think any of these could work well , if done right . My suggestion would be first to use really good , flavorful carrots -- preferably from a farmer 's market . Second , I would tone down or even leave out some of the usual carrot cake spices so that you do n't cover up the carrot flavor or the subtle flavors of your possible additions . Maybe fresh or candied ginger in the cake itself would be good . Orange or lemon curd and/or zest would work particulary well in offsetting the cream cheese icing . I 'm thinking basil and mint might be better saved for another dessert .
end question
start question
What is the difference between sea salt and regular table salt ?
I can say , as a salt snob , that sea salt is a far more flavorful product . I ca n't even use regular table salt anymore . Sea salt is salt formed from evaporated sea water , is not iodized , and because it does n't come from salt mines requires very little processing . Some people will say that because it 's " natural " , sea salt must be better for you . The mayo clinic seems to disagree : <URL>
There are actually quite a few differences between the different types of flour . The number of different types you store will really depend on your particular requirements . All purpose ( or plain ) flour is a blend of different types of wheat and has a relatively low protein content . Bread flour is typically made from a single , high protein wheat . It also has a higher gluten strength . It may also contain ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) Cake flour is also typically made from a single type of wheat ( different from the wheat used in bread flour ) and has a high starch content , it also has the lowest protein content . There are many other types of flour , all of which server specific purposes , for example ; Self raising flour , Whole wheat flour , Chick pea flour , Rice flour , Semolina flour And others . Essentially it 's important to use the right type of flour for a give recipe .
There are many styles of burger , so there is no single answer . Steamed sliders are going to have different constraints than a smashed burger compared to a pub style burger . For burgers that are griddled ( for the purposes of this post , cooked on a hot , flat surface ) , the main issue is how much heat can get into the burger , and how fast ; secondarily , there are issues of sticking and general maintainability . Some hamburger cooking methods rely on sustainable , very high heat to sear the outside of the burger , and give a good crust , even while maintaining a less cooked intererior . This is dependent mostly on the total thermal mass of the pan . Stone - Lots of mass , but low thermal mass . Does n't transmit heat very fast . Also requires considerable care and maintenance to prevent sticking . Pan - There are so many types , it is hard to give a single characterization . Thicker , heavier metal tends to be better . See <URL> for some general advice . Cast Iron - Generally has high weight , and very good thermal conductivity ( compared to any non-metal ) , so often ideal for high temperature searing of hamburgers . Requires seasoning and maintenance . Charcoal ( or propane ) grill -- can develop extremely hot radiant heat , which is ideal for some forms of burger cookery , but can not be done inside . However , there are so many different types of tools and styles of burger , the quality of outcome is going to depend on your skill , what you are trying to achieve , and how you use the equipment you have as much as the specific pan that you use . Similarly , the flavor is going to depend , not only on how you cook ( which can develop the seared , brown , meaty flavors ) , but how you season the meat , and the quality of meat you start with . This is again as important as the particularly pan that you might use .
I can say , as a salt snob , that sea salt is a far more flavorful product . I ca n't even use regular table salt anymore . Sea salt is salt formed from evaporated sea water , is not iodized , and because it does n't come from salt mines requires very little processing . Some people will say that because it 's " natural " , sea salt must be better for you . The mayo clinic seems to disagree : <URL>
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
No , these are completely different products . As you indicate , so called " <URL> lt " is a mixture of sodium chloride ( regular salt ) and sodium nitrate ( or sodium nitrite ) for curing meats , tinted pink to distinguish it from regular table salt . it allows relatively accurate small batch curing , as in home sausage making . <URL> is a naturally mined rock salt , whose impurities can tint it a variety of colors , including pinkish , from iron oxide . Hawaiian pink salt is another naturally harvested salt whose red clay impurities tint it a pink color .
Salt is perhaps the most basic and effective flavour enhancer , and so it 's fairly obvious why we have it on our dinner tables . The popularity of pepper is down to the Romans , who were crazy about it . Thanks to the longevity of the Roman Empire , pepper was imported for hundreds of years , helping to establish it as the most popular spice , and keeping the price high . Bill Bryson reports in At Home that : When the Goths threatened to sack Rome in 408 , the Romans bought them off with three thousand pounds of pepper .
Pasta as you know is a simple egg and flour mixture . You can add flavouring to it to give it a different spin or even a colour but at it 's root it 's just an egg dough . The different type of shapes are " meant " for different types of sauces in a traditional sense . I do n't want to imply that you MUST use one type of pasta with one type of sauce . What I 'm saying is that a particular style of noodle shape just lends itself better to certain suace types . I.E. penne , rigatoni , macaroni work really well with a sauce that needs a place to sit and hide so that each mouth full gives you the right amount of sauce to noodle ratio . Mac &amp; Cheese is a great example of this . In a soup or salad the type of pasta you choose is probably going to reflect the need of the guest and how you plan to serve the dish . With a soup you want to have a spoon that will carry the right proportions of broth , vegetables , pasta in each bite . Because of that you select a small pasta shape like orzo . However , as cooking is all about using what you have on hand , if you do n't have orzo but you have fetticini then use that but break it up first so it will work the same way . Hope that helps .
Yes , you can detect the difference . How much of a difference will depend on the quality of both the imitation and of the real thing . That said , it 's difficult if not impossible for me to pick out the differences in baked goods . So I keep both around , and use the ( much cheaper ) imitation stuff for baking , and the real stuff for sauces , icing , custards , milkshakes , etc. . Incidentally ... In a pinch , bourbon makes a half-decent substitute for vanilla .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
Traditional goulash is a stew/soup , usually using a cheaper cut of meat suited to slow cooking . It usually contains potatoes and other vegetables , as well as noodles . A true stroganoff consists of paprika-dusted fillet steak quickly pan fried with mushrooms and onions in a sour cream and brandy sauce . It is usually served with rice . I understand that in the US stroganoff can also refer to a stew made with similar ingredients as the traditional dish , and is served with noodles . This , coupled with the shared use of paprika , is evidently where the line blurs .
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
Yes , there is a difference in taste . I think it 's the chlorophyll , but I may be wrong . But the green asparagus has a " vegetable " or " grassy " taste which is n't present in the white asparagus . The white one has its own distinct aroma , which is less pronounced in the green one . As for texture , Caleb already said it . White asparagus is more tender , if you buy it fresh enough . On the other hand , non-tender green asparagus is snappy and somewhat brittle , like a normal stalk . Non-tender white asparagus is tough and stringy . When I cook white asparagus , I remove the lowest part ( the most stringy one ) and peel it ( the outer layer is especially string prone ) and sometimes , if it turns out to be low quality/old , it still has an unpleasant texture . The green one seldom requires removal of the lower part , and never peeling . Violet asparagus is like white one in both taste and texture , but not as common . Oh , and what Caleb says about both being the same plant is correct , but I have never heard of little shades . All farmers in Germany grow white asparagus underground . They make mounds of earth above the place where the asparagus is planted , and it has to grow a lot before it reaches the surface . They also cover the mounds with black foil to get the earth warm in spring . The harvest starts sometime in April and ends by tradition on June 24 . It is done by hand , because machines would break the rods . This makes it a quite costly vegetable . And it should be eaten fresh , because the longer it spends outside of the earth , the stringier it gets . I do n't share the common German enthusiasm for white asparagus ( " royal vegetable " etc. ) but think that it is a good vegetable in its own right . If you can get it fresh , it is worth eating now and then .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
end question
start question
Why and what kind of breads should be scored ?
A properly formed loaf , before it is baked , has a network of gluten strands stretched tightly around its perimeter . This network is in tension , helping maintain the shape of the loaf . There are several reasons to score the loaf : The tension in the outer network of gluten strands limits the ability of the loaf to expand , especially in the " <URL> " or final excited burst of activity that the yeast go through as the temperature of the dough rises at the beginning of baking . The score creates a slit in the network , allowing the loaf to expand , permitting more oven spring to take place . The scores provide a weak point ( due to the cut in that gluten net ) , controlling where expansion takes place oven spring proceeds . This may prevent cracks that would otherwise be unattractive . Furthermore , the score allows aesthetically pleasing shapes or patterns to created on the loaf , as the the dough exposed during oven spring will have a slightly different texture ( it is n't surrounded by the in-tension gluten network , and will have been baked slightly less as it comes to the surface of the loaf during the oven spring ) . This means it will tend to have a different ( often lighter ) color than the main crust where the in-tension network was in place . For example : ( <URL> ) Another example , taken farther for a more artistic statement : You can see the attractive pattern on the loaf from the scores ( which are also functional in the first sense ) -- the look like a leaf . ( <URL> ) . Scoring is more important and effective in free form loaves which will have good oven spring .
The resultant cheese in your first link will be a fresh , soft cheese , nothing like either of the Parmesan or cheddar cheeses mentioned in your second link . It is also an acid-based cheese , not a made with either rennet or bacterial cultures as are most other cheeses . Parmesan is a very long aged cheese . Cheddar is a. . . well ... cheddared cheese ( cheddaring is a process which reduces the moisture content of the curds ) that is then aged for varying periods of time . The fresh cheese in your first link will not serve you well in the same roles as either Parmesan or Cheddar . While I realize these products may not be available easily where you live , they are very distinctive and hard to substitute for with homemade products -- they just also not the kind of cheese that is normally made at home . The home made cheese described is most similar to an unaged feta ( although not goat 's milk ) , or a Mexican queso fresco .
The folks at America 's Test Kitchen did a <URL> and found that the burr mills did n't result in superior consistency to blade grinders . They found that if you stop grinding every now and then and shake the coffee grinder and grind for a total of 25-30 seconds , you get the best results . From the video review : " Lots of people said that these blade grinders chop the beans unevenly . They also said they heat up the beans more because of the friction and that degraded the flavor of coffee . I had dozens of people tasting this coffee and no one picked up flavor differences between the blade-ground and the burr-ground . There were differences in the body but not the flavor ... and we found a way to use the blade grinders to match that body . From the text review : " We found we could improve the evenness of the blade grind either by grinding in short , quick bursts , with stops in between to shake the grinder to redistribute the grounds , or by shaking the grinder as it ground , much as you would a martini in a cocktail shaker . " Their favorite was the Capresso Cool Grind , Model 501 . They did note that you will need a burr grinder for espresso .
For this dish , you 'll probably want to use a low-end extra-light oil ( since it 's being heated quite a bit ) , and then drizzle in nicer extra virgin oil to finish the flavor after the pasta has been tossed into the cheese , oil , and spices . The rule of thumb is to have two kinds of olive oil : High-grade , richly flavored extra virgin olive oil ( for finishing ) Extra light , not extra-virgin olive oil for use as a cooking oil . You can use a cheaper oil for this -- many people choose to use a later pressing , crudo or " pure olive oil " ( in the US ) kind . The high-end oil is for adding it to sauces and drizzling on mostly-finished dishes to add that rich flavor . You 're looking for something with a lot of taste , and it 's a good idea to get small amounts of pricier oil . Getting small bottles means you 'll be using fresher , more flavorful oil because it has n't been open for long . Plus , you wo n't need much to finish dishes . Note that for this use , you want to add the oil near the end of cooking , as heat will alter and weaken the flavor . The low-end light olive oil should be of neutral or light flavor , and will be more tolerant of heating than extra-virgin . Because it has a much higher smoke point than extra-virgin grade oil , use this in recipes calling for heating up olive oil . If necessary for flavor , add some of the good stuff near the end of cooking .
I 've heard the same recommendation before - the idea is that if asparagus is very thick ( say , 1/2 inch or more in diameter ) , and if the bottom is much thicker than the top of the spear , then peeling it will help it to cook more evenly . If you have particularly thick asparagus that seem tough , you may want to peel the bottom section . First , chop or snap off the bottom inch or so , as it will most likely be inedibly tough . Then peel the next 2-3 inches up . You 'll want to lay the asparagus down on a flat surface to do so , so as not to snap it while peeling . I 've never had asparagus from a grocery store that was tough enough to warrant this , but it can happen with homegrown , for whatever reason .
With regards to the grit , if they are n't farmed mussels ( which generally are fairly clean ) you may want to give them a soak for a while . This will give them the chance to expel any further sand/grid they may contain . There are varying theories of whether to use tap water , salt water , sea water or various other concoctions . And admittedly there are those who say any form of soaking will do all sorts of harm to the flavour . But if the alternative is disappointing gritty mussels , why not give it a try . And as always , ask your fishmonger for advice . They will know the origin of the product , and whether or not you need to take extra steps in preparing them . As for discarding opened mussels , do n't just discard them when they seem open on arrival . If the shell is not cracked , give them a light tap ( on the counter or with a knife ) and see whether or not they will close in response . If they close in response , they are fine . If they do n't close or tell you to stop it , then discard them . And if two thirds of the batch really are dead ... I personally would not necessarily trust the other third to be in great shape .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
While not perhaps a definitive answer , according to <URL> : Besides its amazing flavor and texture , sweetbread is nearly impossible to overcook . [ ... ] you can sear the exterior of sweetbread to your heart 's content , without worrying about the interior turning chewy and tough . Your cooking timeframe , in other words , is extremely forgiving and long -- minutes long , rather than tens of seconds . This implies that sous-vide is perhaps not as helpful for sweetbreads as it might be for some other foods that are more temperature sensitive . The only recipe I could find that mentioned a temperature was a <URL> that suggested 60 C ( 140 F ) for one hour . Note that this is one of the time and temperature combinations that essentially kills all pathogens that may be present . From these facts , I infer that you want them cooked though ( which the traditional blanching method will ensure ) , and hot for service , but a specific temperature as is used for beef is not important .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
To extend what GdD said , the reason why yeast raised breads and quick breads are so different comes down to gluten development . Yeast raised breads have structure based on gluten , which is a protein created in wheat flours ( due to enzymatic action on other proteins in the flour ) over time in a moist environment , or when physically agitated . Gluten has a strong , elastic structure providing the toothsome bite typical of yeast raised breads . The techniques , which typically involve one or more of : Long , slow fermentation by yeast -- the physical raising of the dough not only leavens it , but also helps gluten development Kneading , to enhance quicker gluten formation So called autolysis , or allowing to set in cool conditions as a moist dough for slow gluten development without extra work from kneading The result is a strong gluten structure , trapping gas bubbles , giving the charactaristic texture of breads . Quick breads are the polar opposite . As a general class , they are intended to be tender and soft , not chewy and resilient . The " muffin method " used to create them intentionally minimizes gluten development by : Not using yeast to raise the dough Mixing a minimal amount to discourage gluten formation Baking immediately ( in most cases ) after the batter is combined , in order to mininize gluten development from sitting time in moist conditions . The result of course is a tender cake , bread , or muffin . Typical cake techniques such as the creaming method also control gluten development by : Pre-creaming the butter with sugar , and then adding the eggs prior to combining with flour . The fat/sugar phase then coats the flour particles minimizing their interaction , and discouraging gluten formation . Cake batters , like quick bread batters , are not usually held , minimizing time for passive gluten formation Each of these methods is tuned for the outcome desired , and they can not easily be swapped . That being said , there are quick breads which are less like the sweet cake like banana bread for example -- the most iconic is probably Irish soda bread , but this does not change the general fact that yeast raised breads are a very different beast due to the gluten development . Still , they are their own beast , and not like a yeast raised bread .
Well , it looks like I found my answer : <URL> is used for creating <URL> . Field corn includes a few types of corn ( dent , flour , flint , waxy ) . I 'm not sure if all types of field corn are used for masa de maíz , however . So , if anyone has a more specific answer , feel free to give it . I 'm guessing really any kind of corn could be nixtamalized , however ( but some kinds may be more ideal than others ) . Other kinds of grain besides corn can also be nixtamalized .
A chocolate souffle should be warm and gooey in the middle , if it is solid throughout it has been cooked too long . It sounds like you have it right , I would n't change it . If you want to prove it to her do a google image search on chocolate souffle , you 'll see what the result should look like .
Broiling fish is extremely easy , although I would recommend saucing the fish after it is cooked as your BBQ sauce will most likely burn under the heat from the broiler . Your food should be about 8 to 12 inches away form the heat source , but most under oven broilers have a fixed height away from the flame . You need to make sure that your fish is fully scaled before cooking and you should season it with salt and pepper as well . Lay the fish on a pan , making sure that you lay it skin side down and that there is room on each side of each piece . Turn on your flame and slide the fish under the broiler , remove when the fish is flaky , white and lightly browned on top . If you are unsure if it is done , take a fork and twist it in the flesh of the fish and it should flake away fully white , it 's done . Then add your sauce and serve . Additionally , BBQ sauce will mostly overpower the flavor of your tilapia , you might find that whipping up a butter sauce or a white wine sauce will suit you better . Also , alot of fish does well with just a little salt , pepper , and lemon juice .
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
Baking them for that long will evaporate a lot of water . This is a good thing . If they were in enough liquid to not dry out at all then they would n't brown and you would miss out on a lot of delicious flavor . That would be braising . These may have been dryer than potatoes in the past if the potatoes were cut into smaller pieces ( more surface area ) or if the cook time was longer . If you want your veggies to be more moist then you can cook them for a shorter length of time or toss them with some fat which will give the illusion of moisture as well as prevent some internal moisture from escaping .
Do n't know what the flavor profile of the shredded beef , but a nice flavorful hummus ( Sabra is my favorite brand ) is one of my favorite alternates to mayonnaise in beef sandwiches . Sounds unusual , but it 's a great textural and flavor compliment .
I 'm by no means an official source , but it looks like a long grain rice is used . <URL> shows an example made with <URL> , and links to <URL> , which calls for long grain rice .
It depends on how " heavy " your bread is . White bread is done at around 202 - 205 degrees Fahrenheit . Darker bread , 208 - 212 . And definitely use the Thermapen if you have one . There is no point in guessing if you do n't have to .
Well there 's a few things . First , higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released , leaving a flatter-tasting stock . Second , boiling means more motion within the liquid , which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking . In addition , some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion . Third , boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter , leaving you with a cloudier end product . This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into ( opaque ) soups or sauces . Of the three , only the first is of any real concern to home cooks . The other two issues are n't a huge deal at the restaurant level ( modulo need for clarity in consomme etc ) , particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks .
end question
start question
What type of sauce is appropriate for a dry-aged prime steak ?
This sounds yummy ! I 'd recommend cooking sous vide ( SV ) as you suggest ( 130 F for 1-3 hrs ) . I tend not to season in the SV bag at all because salt &amp; spices often turn out oddly ; for example , raw herbs/onion/garlic are far stronger and taste " uncooked " . Figuring out how to spice SV takes a fair amount of experimentation and is best done with dried &amp; powdered herbs/spices instead of fresh ones . VERY IMPORTANT : Before cooking SV trim excess fat from the steak After cooking take the meat from the SV bag and DRY it thoroughly before searing ! If you 're planning to use bag juices , first bring them to a full boil in another pot and skim off the scum ( myoglobin " blood " ) , then use whatever is left as your meat juice . To sear , pre-heat the cast iron sear to a very high temperature ( ~ 500 ) and use a high-temperature oil like peanut . The sear should be at VERY high heat for only 30 seconds or so per side - if you leave it on much longer you 'll lose the beautiful 130 degree edge-to-edge miracle that should be your reward . Using butter for the sear is not a good idea as either the butter will be destroyed by the properly high heat OR the steak will be destroyed by keeping the cast iron 's heat low enough for the butter . Rather , use compound butter as a topper for presentation . As for using a torch , I 've used a brulee torch a few times and the heat &amp; coverage is insufficient to sear a steak well with my limited experience . You can sign your name on the steak with it , but getting a good , even edge-to-edge Maillard crust is very tough . Using a MAPP torch is quite a bit better ; MAPP gas is flavorless , it 's hotter than propane or butane , and MAPP torches tend to fan out broader flames , but I still do n't think they create as dense or flavorful a crust as a pan-sear . Moreover ANY torch runs a likelihood of flat-out burning areas of the meat , and that 's especially true for a first-timer ! Let 's talk about salt before going any further . I 've always salted meat before grilling . But SV is a completely different ballgame . Salting before SV does n't add much flavor for you on short cooks and hurts badly on longer ones ( cures the meat ) . There are online arguments about this , but I prefer salting only after SV and preferably after searing . Taste tests support this post-SV salting approach - check out <URL> for a great take on the subject . If you keep the searing time appropriately short you wo n't have to rest the meat before serving . The meat is still incredibly juicy and does n't need time to reabsorb fluids . As for what to do with a sauce , I 'd go for the butter instead and incorporate a steak-friendly sauce into a side dish . A quality hunk of well-marbled dry-aged beef should sing with this preparation and I 'd put it center-stage to sing solo , with the side dish 's sauce grooving nearby ready to join in on the chorus .
The biggest cause of mould or fungus is humidity ( moisure , dampness , water in the air ) and the leaves by nature will produce this as they dry . After all , the drying process is removing water from the plant . As long as you dry the herbs in an area with plenty of air circulation ( to avoid humidity build up and take away any moisture as the leaves dry ) you should be fine . Make sure the herbs are n't bunched together , spread them out on a tray so the air can circulate around them . Turn them over regularly - every day or every 6 hours or so so they can dry evenly . Remove any damaged/crushed/torn leaves or stems where mould can get a hold and spread . Also remember just because the outside leaves stems may feel dry , the insides may not be , so give them longer to dry out than you think .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
I would n't pay much attention to this list . I would just get my cookware based on what functionality I need , not based on what my stove manufacturer says . The idea of not using cast iron on glass to protect the glass from scratches is as perverse as keeping a sunhat in the closet and going to the beach bareheaded to protect the sunhat from color fading . Your stove 's purpose is n't to gleam , it is to cook . The manufacturer probably tries to shield himself from customer complaints : " your stove got scratches " " nothing we can do , you treated it against our recommendation " . This would explain the overly cautious list . I have an induction stove with a glass plate myself . I do n't have cast iron cookware from the type common in the US ( Lodge pans and similar ) , but I have a wrought iron pan , not seasoned on the outside ( it developed black rust during seasoning the inside , as well as something which I suspect must be ferrous sulfide ) . It is smoother than cast iron , but rougher than a typical stainless steel pan . I regularly use it on my stove . Also , I regularly clean the stove with a mild abrasive ( equivalent to Unilever 's brand Cif ) and once or twice , I had a baked-on spill which would n't go away with this cleaner , so I used a steel wool scouring pad instead . I worked gently , but still applied enough force to remove the residues . After cleaning and polishing with a glass-ceramic cleaner , my stove literally mirrors the ceiling . I bet it has less scratches than my phone screen . So , I think that all the stories about iron cookware damaging the stovetop are greatly exaggerated . But if you are really scared , you can sand and season the bottom . The other claims are also dubious . Alu melts at 660 ° C , you probably wo n't reach it even if you forget an empty pan on high for hours . Nobody uses pure copper pans anyway , and if it is an inner layer of a sandwich bottom , there is no way it will leave marks . And so on . Only the glass warning is good - not because it would damage the stove , but because you risk the glass vessel itself to shatter . Bottomline : Buy based on what material is best for cooking whatever you plan to cook . The stove should be able to take it . And if you are rough and it does get a scratch or two , then I do n't see why it should bother you - it is a tool , not a fashion statement .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
I just happened across this older question and found the answers provided , including the information in the link to wikipedia to be incorrect . All Prime Ribs are Standing Rib Roasts , not all Standing Rib Roasts are Prime Rib . A " Prime Rib " is a standing rib roast , from a beef that has achieved a USDA Grade of " Prime " . Bone-In or Bone-out are separate distinctions the can be applied to any standing rib roast , regardless of grade . U.S. Prime -- This is the highest grade of beef with the most fat marbling . This meat is very tender and only accounts for about 2.9 % of all graded beef . U.S. Prime is usually reserved for high end dining establishments . Because this beef has such a high level of fat marbling , it is excellent for dry heat cooking methods . <URL> Also , technically a Prime Rib is not a ' steak ' but rather a ' slice of roast ' . If one takes a slice from a raw rib primal and grills or broils it as a steak it is a " Rib Eye " , and can also be either " bone-in " or " bone-out " . ( the use of the word ' primal ' refers to a primary cut of beef , the first cuts a butcher will use to section a beef beyond quartering , it is utterly unrelated to the word " prime " in " Prime Rib " )
It comes from two different measurements , typical wine bottle size , and government alcohol regulations Typical wine bottles are 750 ml , and this divides exactly into five or six servings of 150 or 125 ml ( thanks peter ) . So many traditional wine glass serves are " exactly " 150 or 125 ml ( ~ 5 or 4 oz ) depending in which country you live in For typical government regulation , a standard drink is ; a 100 ml glass of table wine , or a 330 ml can of beer , or a 30 ml glass of straight spirits . Each of these contains on average 10 g of alcohol . So many liquor licensing guidelines recommend the serving of wine by 100 ml ( 3.5 oz ) standard drink sizes Governments will use this to produce such amazing guidelines such as : In most western countries the standard drink range is from 8 to 12 g of alcohol , except in the USA where it is super-sized to 14 g Update ; references from <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are only four ways that I know of other than towels ( paper or otherwise ) to dry meat : Air circulation Time ( in a relatively dry environment ) . Heat Momentum Most people avoid the heat approach , as you 'll start to cook it once it 's hot enough to be safe for long-term storage of meat . Some recipes may start in a low oven to dry the surface , then remove it , let the oven pre-heat to a higher temperature , then finish cooking . ( as it 's difficult to give recipes that know how quickly your oven heats up ) . For momentum , you basically have to flick the meat such that the water gets flung off . Which is prone to lots of problems ( letting go of the meat , plus the spraying of contaminated liquid everywhere ) . You could use a salad spinner , but if you did , I 'd recommend keeping a separate one for meats , as you do n't want to risk contaminating other ingredients that would be eaten raw . For the airflow , you can set it under a low speed fan ... avoiding high speeds so you do n't end up aerosolizing the moisture and flinging it through the kitchen . Or you can place the food in a ventilated container and leave it in your fridge overnight ... possibly with a battery powered fan in the fridge to improve airflow . As all of these ideas have drawbacks ( food safety , time , etc. ) , most people just accept the waste of using paper towels . There are a few times when one of the others might be used ( food dehydrating , trying to get a glaze to set up ( eg , peking duck ) , dry brining , etc. ) , but they 're relatively rare .
Sweet and sour red cabbage , cuts through the richness of the goulash very nicely - particularly if you cook some thin slices of tart apples with the cabbage . The vinegar also turns the cabbage vivid purple which also adds a nice contrast to earthy goulash . I found this recipe that is almost identical to my mom 's ( although I probably would opt out of using the clove ) : <URL>
You want the ones that look like little tiny T-bone steaks . Typically they are called Lamb Chops , but look first as there are different cuts under that name . You might also consider doing a rack , which is the equivalent to a Rib Roast , but obviously much smaller . For the rack , I 'd sear it in a pan , and then broil it until done . ( 15-25 minutes , 140-160 degrees ) .
One thing you also might want to consider when making pickles is the process of heating versus not . I recently learned that the crispy store bought pickles are pickled at low temps ( my preferred method ) , where as softer pickles were most likely heated first . Not sure which method you are using , but this may help as you move forward . My step-mother recently made some awesome pickles with chilies and dill and garlic but heated them first in the canning process and they turned out a bit too soft for my liking . Regarding salt ... I happen to agree with Adam 's comment on the brine . I usually confirm salt is dissolved before it goes into the pickling solution , so it 's not a problem . In that respect , a good quality salt , regardless of shape and size should be used ( feel free to grind it in a mortar with a pestle if you think it should be finer ) . I happen to use coarse Kosher from Morton for most things ...
The smoky flavour of barbecued foods is best achieved through burning lump charcoal or hardwood . In the scenario you 're describing , yes , burning hardwood and then cooking over the coals would give you a smoky flavour Store bought briquettes actually probably give you less of a smoky flavour because instead of using wood , many briquettes use other materials/binders that do n't give you the smoky flavour you want .
To answer in the language of the question asked : Medium holes with a cutting edge on bottom ( look like large raindrops ) : used for shredding . Small holes with cutting edge on bottom : used for shredding when you want it finer than the larger size . Outward protruding holes with spiky edges on all sides : used for grating . Wide holes that look like a smiley : used to slice things to an even thickness . As for recipes ... I generally do n't use the slicing portion too often , as I can get fairly consistent slices with a knife , but if you 're not so skilled , it could be used to slice potatoes for an au gratin ( might need to slice them in half first , is the slots are n't wide enough to fit the whole potato ) , or to slice firmer cheeses . It can also be used for slicing cabbage for coleslaw ( again , once cut down to fit ) , cucumbers or carrots for salads , etc. . As the blades are n't razor sharp , there are some softer items ( eg , tomatoes ) that it just wo n't work for , that you 'd have to do by hand or get a much more expensive mandoline . The grating side I only generally use for hard cheeses , when I need a more powdery texture than I can get with the shredding sides . I 've also used it for zesting citrus ( although it only works in large quantities , as you end up losing about 1/2 a lemon to the groves and it does n't release without a brush ** ) , and I 've used it for pulping carrots ( was mixing them into a sauce , and I did n't want identifiable bits ) The shredding sides are the ones I use the most , with the choice of side dependent upon what size I want the resultant shreds . I use it for firmer vegetables and fruits that I 'm baking into breads ( zucchini , carrots , apples ) , potatoes for hash browns , medium cheeses for firmer cheeses ( when I want this texture ) , etc. . Although a food processor can be used for this task , you have to consider a couple things ( besides initial cost &amp; space it takes up ) : it 's really easy to go and shred lots of cheddar cheese in a food processor , but it cramming all in there and fusing back together from the force and heat , defeating the purpose . Chilling the cheese helps , but you also need to keep dumping the work bowl out . If you have a strong arm and a small food processor , a hand shredder might actually be faster and give better results . When using a shredding disk for firmer things , you do more damage than by hand , resulting in lots of liquid being given off . Sometimes , this is better ... I have a potato kugel recipe that comes out very light as I can get more of the liquid out after having gone through the food processor ... so you may want to try both tools ( if you already own them both ) to see which one gives you better results . ** ... I 've heard you can wrap it in plastic wrap , use the grater , and then pull the wrap off to get it to release ; I 've never tried it , in part because I now have a microplane grater , but also because I 'd be afraid of getting bits of plastic in the food . I also want to say that I saw the trick the context of pulping ginger or garlic , but it 's been long enough ago that I do n't know that I can trust my memory
There are a number of sites that provide diagrams and information on the different cuts , one fairly extensive resource is <URL> Edit : Made a change due to comment .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
I do n't think the bowl has anything to do with it , unless it is some sort of reactive metal , but you do n't normally find food grade bowls made of a reactive metal ? To stop surface oxidation of non-acidic fruit ( apples , bananas etc. ) coat them with a suitable weak acid . See this previous answer <URL>
First , the alcohol does n't burn off . We had a table about the percentage of alcohol left after a period of cooking , and especially in something cooked as short as a pasta sauce , there is a substantial amount left . For the longer discussion , see <URL> . Second , alcohol is a great solvent . It can leach aromatics from spices and herbs which would n't come out with water only . There is a good reason why extracts and essences are made with alcohol . While a really good extract needs a long time , even the short cooking time will be enough for alcohol to make a difference . Third , it can stabilize your sauce . Cream is an emulsion of fat in water , and not terribly stable , especially if some acid is present . Alcohol dissolves both fat and water , so it will stop the cream from eventual separating . Fourth , maybe you happened to find a not so great recipe . Vodka will help with the first three points , but it is seldom a good choice for cooking , because there is almost always another alcohol which will accomplish the same and introduce a good flavor which harmonizes with the remaining ingredients . For pasta sauces this tends to be a good brandy , but it depends on what else you have in the sauce . And because even vodka will leave a taste of alcohol in the end , it is hard to argue that it can be used where the taste should be kept unchanged .
Fix Compacted Flour . Flour will compact over time ( and during shipment ) . You could sift the flour to fluff it back up . Or , you could just stir it before measuring and be sure to spoon the flour into your measuring cup in order to get a correct volume measurement . Remove Unwanted Material . Yes , sifting would also remove larger pieces or bits of chaff . It would also remove insects . However , neither of these are problems with modern store-bought flour . If you grind your own flour ( my sister-in-law does this ) , then you may still want to sift it , though . Mix Ingredients Together . Sifting can also be used to mix other dry ingredients into flour . I bake quite a bit , though , and I 've never had a problem with just using a spoon or whisk to mix dry ingredients together . In summary : do n't bother . Just use good measuring techniques and stir your ingredients together well . No one likes a lump of baking powder lurking in a muffin !
end question
start question
What is in eel sauce ?
Components : sweet - > sugar + mirin ( rice wine ) salt - > soy savory - > soy + mirin + eel bones At home , you probably wo n't be able to manage eel bones boiled down into stock . Ignoring that , it 's all a matter of mixing and reducing . Sugar + soy + mirin , reduce to 1/3 , revel in the joy of caramel and salt and sharpness .
Authenticity is often in question when it comes to curry . Korma covers a fairly broad range of South/Central Asian curries , their common feature being their creaminess . The creaminess can come from cream , coconut cream , yoghurt , or ground nuts - or a mixture of these . In the case of ground nuts , water might be added to add liquidity , although you may be surprised at how much liquid nuts contain . Just think how gloopy peanut butter can be .
Half fill it with water , then put in on the stove top over a medium heat . Work the burnt-on bits with a wooden spoon or spatula as the water starts to boil . You should be able to soften it up and be able to get it off then .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
Unless there was sugar in your cream , there 's nothing particularly sweet about this combination . Did you salt the pasta water to roughly seawater saltiness ? If not , did you adjust salt before serving ? If your pasta water was under-salted , that would explain the sweetness , since the only significant source of salt otherwise was the parmesan . Heavy cream is equivalent to 36-40 % whipping cream . In the event that your cream was pre-sweetened , there 's not much you could do except add salt and hope the sugar does n't overwhelm . It 's a fairly common technique to add sugar to a salty dish to make it taste richer , or salt to a sweet dish for a similar purpose . But it would n't work very well if the cream was very sweet . Since I 've never seen sweetened whipped cream except in aerosol dispensers , I ca n't say for sure .
I make a sort-of-vinaigrette that I usually use as a salad dressing , but it 'd probably be good with other things . My usual recipe is to halve a few pints of cherry tomatoes , toss them with some sugar and salt , then drain them into a bowl for a while . After they 've drained , I reduce the tomato juice with honey , shallot , dijon mustard , and cider vinegar , let it cool , then add a little olive oil , salt , and pepper .
Umami is the result of glutamic acid ( ions ) getting in touch with the tongue . Glutamic acid in fish sauce is the result of a fermentation process , which involves bacteria doing the work of breaking down fish components . Glutamic acid easily dissolves in water though . This is after all , how it was detected millennia ago and centuries ago verified by creating glutamic acid salts : Cooking seaweed in water and boiling the result down . The wakame is added due to its natural content of glutamic acid . There is n't anything special the pineapple can/has do to it that regular water ca n't do . Therefore the answer is : No , the purpose of the pineapple is not to increase the glutamic acid of the substitute .
Normally , in industry , you combine the butter and flour , and cook it for a bit ( usually gets a nice nutty aroma ) . Then , you heat the milk to a boil , and add some of the milk to the cooked roux ( fat and flour ) . This will be VERY thick . You can easily whisk the lumps out of that . You then add this back into the other milk , which thickens the milk . Also , in industry , there is often just a big pail of roux , and a shortcut is to heat the milk , and then add the roux in a bit at a time , whisking like hell to get out the lumps . You can control the thickness of the sauce better that way . When you have the desired thickness , you then season .
First , I 'm assuming by " pesto " you mean " Pesto alla Genovese " , given your question about pine nuts . Basil , pine nuts , garlic , olive oil , and cheese is a delicious combination , but it 's only one of many " pestos " ( peste , actually ) , since pesto refers in general to any sauce which is made from crushed or pureed ingredients . Mix and match to your heart 's content . Walnuts are actually a traditional alternative to pine nuts for Pesto alla Genovese ; pine nuts have always been scarce , even in early-20th-century Italy . As a caution , though , you need to get good , fresh walnuts and make sure to get all of the skin off the nuts , or the pesto will taste bitter and rancid . Almonds could also work , although I 'd think they 'd be rather bland . The herb pastes which traditionally have crushed almonds -- such as Romanesco sauce -- include some hot pepper . Again , freshness and getting the skin off is important . I 'd think sunflower seeds would be kind of odd and oily , but you do n't know until you try . If you do , post a comment to let us know !
For 12 ounces of cranberries , use about 1 cup of sugar . You may like to use part brown sugar . Lemon juice , orange juice , or zest of either are welcome additions . There is no absolutely standard American version ; like anything else , every cook has their own variation .
American versions of Mongolian BBQ are often pretty sweet ( this does n't sound like an authentic recipe ) . More soy sauce ( or more of everything but the sugar ) would cut the sweetness . Chili oil would certainly give it heat , but is n't going to temper the sweetness much . Any of the following would offset the sweetness and be appropriate for this type of dish : Any tart apple ( a common ingredient in the Japanese version of Mongolian BBQ ) Onions ( not caramelized ) Rice wine vinegar
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
What you 're describing is n't all that different from how they make various products like Liquid Smoke ( make smoke along with steam , then condense that steam ) . You will need to make sure that some actual condensation occurs ( for example , by having a lid for the smokey vapor to condense onto ) . However , it may be simpler to add a liquid smoke-type product directly ; at least the main brands are actually smoke distillates ( and not artificial flavorings or similar ) and thus should be effectively identical to this process , but quicker .
The simplest rule of thumb is to read the ingredients : Water , soybeans , wheat , salt ( and maybe something to preserve it ) . Other brands , may list wheat before soybeans . " Good quality " and taste may be two different things ( like wine ) . So , it gets a bit tricky to answer . And then there 's reduced sodium and light soy which may have other ingredients . This link may be useful . It covers Japanese soy sauce and touches on the " Grades of Soy Sauce " : <URL> .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
After spending more time on search engines and thanks to the comment from belisarius ... Medium refers to the thickness level of the final sauce , and is controlled by the ratio of roux ( butter/flour ) to milk . For 1 cup of milk : thin = 1 tablespoon each flour/butter medium = 2 tablespoons each flour/butter ( a " standard " bechamel ) thick = 3 tablespoons each flour/butter Sources : <URL> , <URL>
Real Worcestershire sauce has a very long shelf life , many many years Some people even age it , in a dark cellar ! Be warned though , many brands of Worcestershire style sauce are not actually Worcestershire sauce , they are just sugar with flavourings , no sign of rotten fish etc :-( See <URL>
Tomatoes relax the lower esophageal sphincter , a muscle at the top of the stomach that contracts to keep stomach contents from going back up the esophagus . The more concentrated the sauce the more the relaxing effect . Alcohol does this as well , and over-eating can lead to the LES muscle being unable to overcome the pressure . So if you had a big portion of pizza with extra strong tomato sauce and a few beers or glasses of wine it 's a triple-whammy .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
end question
start question
Why cook onion with chicken ? Is it just for taste ?
Onion tastes good , especially when caramelized , and since both it and the chicken go on to to be cooked for an extended time in the chili , there 's really no food safety concern with cooking them together . Both contribute to the finished flavor of the dish , and cooking them together saves time . There 's no magical interaction between chicken and onion - if there were you 'd see the same step in many different types of recipes .
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
You take a small amount out , cook it and taste it . It is the classic way , for instance , to know if sausage is going to be good after it is cooked but before you put it into casing .
When you cook a vegetable , such as a cut up onion , it will release water . The water initially will create an emulsion with the oil in the pan , so you wo n't see them as clearly separated elements , but the water will also be evaporating . When enough ( perhaps all ) of the water has dissipated , the emulsion breaks and you see the oil separate from the rest of the ingredients . The breaking of the emulsion does n't tell you anything in particular about the doneness of the vegetables , nor about the extraction of the spices ' oils into your cooking fat , since the time it takes for the water to evaporate will depend on the strength of the burner , the geometry of the pan , and the amount of onion and other vegetable that is present . If you are always using the same stove , pan , amount and cut of onion , and amount of spices , then you will be able to gauge the readiness of the mixture from cues like the water having evaporated . In general , though , it would be best to evaluate the mixture 's flavor by tasting it . In some cases , you may even want to add a little bit of water ( or stock ) to the pan to let the onions continue to sweat !
I think you should be much more concerned about what happened after you turned on the heating element . It 's likely that a heavy ceramic liner crock pot fresh out of a ( properly kept ) refrigerator would keep contained food out of the <URL> for a couple hours . But once cooking begins , that 's a wide temperature range to cross - you have to make it from 40 ° F to 140 ° F within two hours , regardless of the final temperature you reach or how long you hold the food on either end . At low most crock pots do n't put out very much heat , and you had a cold starting temperature for a thick , absorptive cooking vessel , so it may have struggled to bring the chicken up to temperature in sufficient time . Unfortunately , without having monitored the temperature , there 's really no way to know if this would be considered safe by the typical guidelines informed by food safety agencies . I would consider it suspect at best , but you must make your own decision about whether that 's an acceptable risk to you . However , we tend to lean pretty conservatively about food safety advice around here , because while there are always anecdotes and opinions , much smarter experts than we have set a high bar for safety standards and acceptable risk . As always : <URL> .
Adding salt and lemon should do it , or at least help a lot . What you want to do is to chop them up and rub in a little salt and a splash of lemon juice ( vinegar should work too ) . Obviously you do n't want to add so much of either that you wo n't want to eat the onion . Leave to sit in the fridge overnight and enjoy .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
The recipe 's goal is to use the natural bacteria in the beets and beet peels to cause the fermentation . The thing about using natural bacteria is that you never know what these are going to be , so it 's a crapshoot what flavors you are going to get . Beets produced in one farm may have radically different bacteria in them , different varieties grown in the same patch of land could also vary significantly . It 's the same process as making a sourdough bread starter using natural yeasts - you may get a nice smooth and delicate flavor , or you could get something that will take the paint off of a door . The point is that you may be doing everything right , it 's just that 's what you are going to get from the process . Looking at the science of the natural yeasts and assuming the recipe writer is not talking complete BS , it could be that the delicate bacteria spoken of in the recipe is being out-competed by the other natural bacteria in the water you use , and on the surface of the container , lid , and airlock . The thing to do in this case is to reduce or eliminate these other bacteria so that the beet bacteria will be the only game in town . To do this use sterilized water ( buy distilled or simply boil your water for a few minutes before letting it cool completely ) , or run your water through a filter which will remove or kill bacteria . Then use a chlorine solution to sterilize every single piece of equipment you will use . That means the container , lid , lock , spoons - anything that will come into contact must be very clean . Wash your beets in sterilized water as well . I 'd do that to the equipment even if I used a culture , it will increase my chances of a good result . If that does n't work you may have to accept that is the way natural kvass will taste . It could be that the writer of the article likes it that way , or simply does n't know what he/she is talking about . In that case consider using a culture - there 's no dishonor in it and you 'll get something drinkable .
Generally , slow-cooking means any food preparation method which relies on using low-heat for a long amount of time . Barbecues , smokers , luau pits , and low-heat ovens could all qualify . The benefit of slow-cooking , generally , is that food becomes incredibly tender , as all of its connective tissues break down . Also , flavor can infuse over time and provide deeper results than with virtually any other method . Lastly , long-cooking times create a celebratory atmosphere where food is the focal point of a social gathering . Specifically , slow-cooking refers to the ' slow-cooker ' a counter-top set-up which has a large , electronically heated ceramic bowl and a glass lid . It usually has only a few settings , such as ' low ' , ' medium ' , and ' high ' . The benefit of slow-cooking in a slow-cooker is mainly convenience . These units are safe enough to turn on before work and return to before dinner , with fully-cooked , piping hot food ready to go . The slow-cooker is geared towards ' one-pot ' recipes , which means they require minimal food preparation . You simply cut up the ingredients in fairly large chunks , add seasoning , and liquid , and that 's it . They are a favorite of working parents , but increasingly , also a device for more advanced experimentation .
There are no similarities between the process of making caramel and making cookies . Pure <URL> has one ingredient , sugar . This sugar is cooked on the stove and brought to a high temperature until it changes color . The process of caramelization consists of heating sugar slowly to around 340 ° F ( 170 ° C ) . As the sugar heats , the molecules break down and re-form into compounds with a characteristic color and flavor . There are two products you may be talking about instead that are called caramel - <URL> and caramels , or <URL> , a wrapped candy product . Both of these are made in a similar fashion - heat sugar and other ingredients on the stove to a specific temperature point . These added ingredients include corn syrup , cream/half &amp; half/milk , and butter . While these ingredients share similarities to some degree with cookies , cookies rarely ever include liquids like milk as you need to keep the dough thick so that it does n't spread , and will always include some sort of flour and ( usually ) eggs , which are not a standard ingredients in caramel recipes ( and probably never ingredients ) . The process for cooking is similar to pure caramel , they are cooked in a saucepan on the stove until they reach a specific temperature , something around 250F . At this temperature , the chocolate chips would be completely melted . You can certainly make <URL> , if that is what you wish , but you could not convert a recipe for chocolate chip cookies to a caramel recipe . Adding more sugar to the cookies would make them spread quite a bit more ( remember that sugar is considered a liquid in baking cookies ) and eventually you 'd get something like a <URL> , which is probably the closest you 'd ever get to caramel in a cookie recipe . Lace cookies contain flour but significantly less flour than sugar . As an example , this recipe for <URL> has only 3 tbsp of flour ( and 2-1/4 c oats ) but has a whopping 2-1/4 cup of sugar along with two sticks of butter . The method is also similar to caramel , in that it 's a boiled batter that is heated in a pot on the stove and then baked . This is probably the closest crossover you 're going to get between the two . And , as a bonus , if you want chocolate , lace cookies are often dipped in or drizzled with chocolate . <URL> from Food Network : <URL>
Fire is typically a poor heat source for direct cooking . It fluctuates with every breeze so the heating is very erratic . It also produces a lot of soot which tastes terrible and is bad for you . When cooking on a campfire much better results are had by cooking next to the coals than above the flame . Cooking with a gas flame is more reliable of course . A couple direct cooking applications of fire in the kitchen , that I can think of are : Flambe : Lighting a sauce which contains a lot of alcohol to burn off some of the raw alcohol taste . Roasting : Putting a steaming basket over a gas flame and charring the skin of peppers or eggplant . Caramelizing : Using a blowtorch to put a crust on creme brulee or to sear the exterior of a sous vide steak . I would recommend starting with the blowtorch for several reasons : It is harder to burn your house down with a torch than with a pan of flame . Blow torches are useful for things outside of the kitchen like stripping paint or starting the grill . There is something deeply satisfying about wielding a hissing , blue , knife of fire that appeals to the caveman within . As for safety . Keep a fire extinguisher on hand . Do n't let kids or pets in the kitchen when you are playing with fire . Keep your home owner 's insurance current .
Back meat on poultry tends to be rubbery , inaccessible , and there is relatively little of it . The meat is almost like other dark meat but is found only in thin sheets . Also since , during tradition roasting the back meat is down in the pan , it tends to be less cooked than is pleasant for dark meat . It is n't practical to try and carve it because it is a ton of effort for just a little bit of not-very-good meat . After carving off the major cuts I will use my hands to pull off any useful scraps - including some of the larger pieces of back meat . I save these pieces for my standard poultry scraps applications : pie , soup , and enchiladas . Whatever is left gives up it 's goodness into the broth when the carcass is boiled and is then fed , with the spent carcass , back to the chickens .
Refrigeration does not improve pasta texture ; on that front my advice is to cook only as much as you are going to eat each time . Other than that , it sounds like you are overcooking the pasta , so " when you judge it done " appears to be in error , and you should alter your judgement to an earlier point if you find the pasta too wet/soft they way you have been doing it . The time needed varies depending on the shape . When it is done it should be removed from the water ( or the water removed from it ) immediately . I find no benefit to adding oil to the water - save the oil for adding just after it 's been drained if you want it to do something useful .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
You can have raw chicken in restaurants in Japan - it 's delicious . Depending on where you live there may be better or worse food safety standards , but there is nothing poisonous about raw chicken itself . By the way , sushi is a dish with vinegary rice . The raw-meat dish is Sashimi <URL> . <URL> You will note that in this photo the chicken is actually not raw but quite rare . The exterior of the chicken flesh is actually seared and cooked through several millimeters .
<URL> Papyri from Ancient Egypt in 1555 BC classified coriander , fennel , juniper , cumin , garlic and thyme as health promoting spices ( 3 ) . Records from that time also note that laborers who constructed the Great Pyramid of Cheops consumed onion and garlic as a means to promote health . The <URL> appears to give history/origing for a large selection of spices .
It is basically the anethole ( a phenol ) of the star anise that react with the sulfur in the onion to create sulfur-phenolic aromatics . In Chinese cuisine the same family of reactions is used with duck and pork . The sulfur-phenols are also produced during the Maillard reaction , the reaction that gives grilled meat its characteristic flavor , so adding star anise to the onions will give your dishes more of that grilled , browned flavor . The reactions of the compounds in the star anise with those in the meat are not the relevant reactions for flavor or texture . From averaging a few recipes , I would say 1 star anise for every 250g of chopped onion . Too much star anise will highlight the other aromas in star anise , so one has to use it in moderation and allow enough time for the reactions to take place . Garam masala , a common Indian spice combination that is used in meat dishes , may have star anise . Star anise is sometimes used in French onion soup -- it intensifies the caramel flavor of the onions -- and in Vietnamese cuisine , which today incorporates French elements .
I 'd suggest <URL> as a starting point . They specifically investigated the food safety of chicken in 2010 and found that ( among other things ) : Campylobacter was in 62 percent of the chickens , salmonella was in 14 percent , and both bacteria were in 9 percent . Only 34 percent of the birds were clear of both pathogens . That 's double the percentage of clean birds we found in our 2007 report but far less than the 51 percent in our 2003 report . Store-brand organic chickens had no salmonella at all , showing that it 's possible for chicken to arrive in stores without that bacterium riding along . But as our tests showed , banishing one bug does n't mean banishing both : 57 percent of those birds harbored campylobacter . Among all brands and types of broilers tested , 68 percent of the salmonella and 60 percent of the campylobacter organisms we analyzed showed resistance to one or more antibiotics . The same issue seems to come up over and over again in food safety questions , and I really ca n't stress this enough : Salmonella is not the only dangerous bacteria in food . <URL> is just <URL> and produces heat-resistant enterotoxins that simply put , can make you very , very sick . Perfringens is also common , and <URL> . I 've seen a number of articles and blogs claiming that people " worry too much " and most of them cite Ippuku in SF , which generated quite a stir by serving chicken tartare . It 's legal in many countries for a restaurant to serve raw or undercooked food , provided that there is informed consent ( the customer is specifically informed or specifically orders that their food be undercooked ) . However , legal is a very long way from safe , especially when we 're talking about raw meat . Steak tartare is more acceptable because , for some reason , <URL> and the incidence of E.coli is <URL> at only 0.26 % . Raw beef is n't totally safe but most healthy people who eat it will not have complications afterward . So , to summarize : Raw chicken : ~ 20 % salmonella ( depending on source ) , ~ 60 % campylobacter ( any source ) Raw beef : Less than 0.1 % e.coli , ~ 2 % campylobacter ( any source ) Conclusion : If you eat raw beef ( steak tartare ) , you 're a risk-taker . If you eat raw chicken , you have a death wish . Just say no . At an absolute minimum , please do n't serve this to your dinner guests with assurances that it will be safe . What you do to your own body is your decision to make , but it would be grossly irresponsible to serve anything made with raw chicken to anyone who has n't been made fully aware of the risks . P.S. . Some of this data may be U.S. specific , but the problem is worldwide . For example : A <URL> showed a 36.7 % contamination rate for salmonella and 84.3 % for campylobacter , ( thanks TFD ! ) . A <URL> showed a 37.5 % incidence rate for salmonella and 75 % for campylobacter . So do n't expect to be safer simply because you do n't live in the U.S. . If you 're planning on doing this , you should check what your country 's regulations and current statistics are regarding salmonella , campylobacter , C. perfringens , and listeria , for farms and plants producing chicken meat . That is your actual risk . Buying " organic " might help , or might not , since organic is currently not a true legal or regulatory category in most regions .
end question
start question
What to do with mochi ... this version is white , hard and puck-like in shape ?
I 've actually found <URL> . They show the cakes that I 've seen in the past and also the shape that I mentioned in my post . It seems like you can : grill them - they will brown a bit and rise . boil them - they wo n't rise microwave them And the ways to serve it is with : Butter + soy sauce ( an interesting combo that I will try ) Rolled in ground sesame seeds + sugar or salt . Rolled kinako ( toasted soybean powder + sugar . ) UPDATE Boiled I cut them into about 1 inch x 1 inch pieces and threw them in boiling water . Boiled them for about a minute or so ... then removed them to a bowl of cold water to stop the cooking process . Dressings I tried butter + soy sauce ( 1 TBSP melted : 1/4 tsp soy sauce ) - It 's actually pretty good ! I also ground up some black sesame seeds with sugar ( 1 TBSP : 1/2 tsp sugar ) ... this was actually my favorite of the two .
Short answer : store mayonnaise has less yolks per volume oil , and yolks give most of the yellow color . Mainly the reason is that store mayonnaise adds water , rather than relying on the moisture in the egg yolks and vinegar . To quote On Food and Cooking , page 634 : Though cookbooks often say that the ratio of oil to egg yolk is critical , that one can only emulsify a half-cup or cup of oil , this is n't true . A single yolk can emulsify a dozen cups of oil or more . What is critical is the ratio of oil to water : there must be enough of the continuous phase for the growing population of oil droplets to fit into . This means you can use less yolks and just add water to get your volume . Since yolks impart most of the yellow color ( from plant pigments called xanthophylls ) , this reduces color considerably . Store mayonnaise also uses some whole eggs , not just yolks , which do not emulsify as well , but are cheaper . This further reduces the amount of yolk in the result . Note that while home mayonnaises use yolks , store mayonnaises can get away with including egg whites by using very powerful machines to emulsify the mayonnaise , and in some cases add emulsifiers such as lecithin to help stabilize it . The Experiment ! One whole , very jumbo egg , with a little white wine vinegar ( around 15 mL ) . For oil , I used vegetable oil with a small splash of olive oil . The total amount of oil used was 1.5 cups , or 350 mL . First , I tried to create mayonnaise by hand whipping with a mini-whisk . It turned out a pale yellow , and thickened some , but refused to thicken fully . This confirms that making a homemade mayonnaise by hand requires yolks or some sort of mechanical beating/blending ; whole eggs just do n't emulsify well enough . It 's fair to say that the result is quite yellow when it is n't fully blended . Next , I gave it a shot with my immersion blender : See how much lighter and paler the mayonnaise is ! I can only speculate that the blender created a much finer emulsion , and incorporated more air , reducing the impact of the oil and yolk color on light scattered off the micro-droplets . Finally , I went ahead and added flavorings ( a little dijon mustard , a ton of paprika , salt , pepper , and more vinegar ) . In this comparison against commercial mayonnaise , you can see that the result is now darker and more orange , courtesy of the paprika . It is also clear how close the color was before adding paprika . Clearly , the use of whole eggs is the biggest part of the equation . It is clear that by adding more water to thin the emulsion and then adding oil to achieve the proper consistency , I could make this even paler , very close to store mayonnaise . The use of mechanical blenders may assist in the process , producing a finer and paler emulsion . Recipes that include paprika also yield a more yellow-orange result ; I think it is for this reason that my commercial mayonnaise uses " paprika oleoresin " in place of ground paprika . Finally , the use of more heavily colored olive oil appears to darken the resulting mayonnaise . Given how bland my mayonnaise was with only a touch of olive oil , I would encourage you to blend in water and additional oil , rather than avoiding the olive oil . Ideally , the water would be added about a tsp at a time , when the mayonnaise is still somewhat liquid .
In the US , " extra virgin " is n't a legally protected term - some of the stuff sold as EVOO here would never , ever pass as it elsewhere . From <URL> : Extra-virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , contains no more than 0.8 % acidity , and is judged to have a superior taste . Extra Virgin olive oil accounts for less than 10 % of oil in many producing countries . It is used on salads , added at the table to soups and stews and for dipping . Virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , has an acidity less than 2 % , and is judged to have a good taste . Pure olive oil . Oils labeled as Pure olive oil or Olive oil are usually a blend of refined and virgin production oil . Cooking-wise , the extra virgin stuff is best used in situations where it wo n't be highly heated . Salad dressings , dipping oils , finishing a dish , etc. are where it shines .
In my experience cooking for small children I 've found that just because they like a set of ingredients does n't mean they will like them combined if the texture changes . I child who likes chicken and vegetables wo n't necessarily like chicken stew . A child who likes fish wo n't necessarily like a fishcake as the fishcake has a very different texture . That being said it could be that the particular type of fishcake you are making is n't to your child 's taste . I think the reason is the breadcrumbs . Breadcrumbs are a good binding agent for ingredients that have lots of moisture and fat to release during cooking - as the mix cooks the breadcrumbs soak up the moisture and keep the mix together and retains some of the moisture . Fish and shellfish are pretty lean to begin with , and as they are usually pre-cooked when making fishcakes they will have already lost most of their moisture . If you use breadcrumbs to bind the mix there will not be enough moisture to wet them . You could add a bit of water but then you 're going to get a soggy mess . I would suggest making fishcakes with mashed potato instead of breadcrumbs as a binder . The potatoes are naturally moist and hold things together well . I typically use a 60-40 ratio of fish to potatoes by weight . You can coat the outside of the patty with breadcrumbs when frying them off to give the surface some crunch .
There are actually two dishes being sold , and neither is " Phở " . The words that she yelled and had Gordon do the same were " Hủ tiếu , Bún riêu " . They are both noodle soups , the former is pork based broth , and the latter , porc and shrimp/crab with tomatoes . You can google the words for more info .
Use something that will help you measure the dough or mix uniformly . Some possible tools to co-opt for this task : Ice cream scoop , melon baller , measuring cups or spoons : all depending on size of course . You should be able to get to where you can eyeball the size in relation to the tool you are using .
Figs are <URL> that is , they will continue to ripen after being picked from the tree ( because they will start releasing ehtylene ) . However , contrary to other climateric fruits ( such as bananas ) this only works if the fruit is picked in the later stage of its developement . From : <URL> - Owino et al. , Plant Physiol Biochem . - 2006 The fig is a climacteric fruit and treatment with ethylene in the later part of stage II stimulates growth , accelerates the onset of the rise in respiration , induces ethylene production and promotes ripening . A typical respiration climacteric is not displayed by fruit harvested before the natural initiation of ripening on the tree . However fruit in which ripening had been initiated on the tree gave a normal climacteric rise and ripened fully after detachment from the tree . Thus in many aspects the fig behaves as a typical climacteric fruit , but as a result of its growth pattern , the ethylene production preceding ripening occur during a phase of active cell expansion . What many people suggest , is to put some olive oil on the eye of the fig . I have never done it , but apparently you only need a very small amount around the eye to hasten ripening . Here are two links to forums explaining this fig-oiling technique <URL> , <URL> Apparently this will speed up a lot the ripening of the fruits ( although some people seem to report they are less sweet ) . This works because olive oil will increase the release of ethylene from figs . From the same paper I cited above : It has been known since the 3rd Century BC that a drop of olive oil applied to the ostiole ( a process termed as Oleification ) of the fig fruit stimulates growth and leads to uniform ripening of fruits . The application of several vegetable oils such as rape seed oil , sesame oil , soybean oil , camellia oil and linseed oil also had similar effects as the olive oil whereas animal oil stimulated fruit ripening but the effect was less than that of the vegetable oils . It was also observed that refined olive oil was more effective in accelerating maturation of the fig fruit as compared to unrefined olive oil or other vegetable oils . [ ... ] A transient induction of ethylene was observed in fruit treated with olive oil , with ethylene production increasing a day after treatment and later declining
It most likely contained artificial truffle flavoring ( a synthetic agent such as 2,4-dithiapentane ) , and the judges were purists . Little to no real truffle flavor is used in truffle oils .
No , it 's not . White vinegar ( also known as distilled vinegar ) is made of acetic acid diluted in distilled water . Its flavor is simple -- its just sour . Typical concentrations range from 5 -- 7 % acetic acid . White wine vinegar is made by allowing white wine to turn to vinegar . It has a much more complex flavor profile . It is also frequently less sour ( acidic ) than distilled white vinegar .
Just slice it into thin discs ( a mandoline is quick ) and the kids use it as chips 'n' dip . Try some natural or Greek style yoghurt and whole seed mustard as a dip . Very crunchy and tasty If the skin is dry or blotchy I quickly run the potato peeler over it first Otherwise , just grating it into soups or stews is a nice vegetable filler EDIT Doh , forgot the best thing to use it for Coleslaw , it replaces cabbage perfectly . Or you can mix cabbage and broccoli . Just coarse grate it with some carrot , onion . Blend it up with a little mayo and yoghurt , or lemon juice and olive oil . Add some ground fennel and cumin seeds or some chopped mint for extra zing
Well , if it comes directly from Southern Italy you could use it to make some Southern Italy specialty like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , all of which require candied fruits . Traditionally pastiera is done with a mix of candied citron and orange peel plus candied pumpkin ( cucuzzata ) which however is not the easiest ingredient to find . Citrus is definitely a must for sfogliatelle . There are two types of sfogliatelle ricce and frolle . Sfogliatelel ricce are better tasting in my opinion , but can be challenging to do at home . <URL> Sfogliatella riccia Sfogliatella frolla Cannoli traditionally only have candied orange peels , but I guess citron would do well in them anyway . Cannolo siciliano Note : the pastry in the Wikipedia photo for pastiera seems way too thick and crumbly . The pastry should be very thin , there just to keep everything together , and should not be the dominant taste .
Throw them away . I would not expect potatoes to go black in the dehydration process , and although they may be safe to eat I would not expect them to be palatable , or inviting in any way . You can not be sure they are n't toxic , and you would n't put them on a guest 's plate , so chuck them .
I 'll elaborate on Joe 's answer some . It 's a little known fact that button mushrooms ( also called common , white , or table mushrooms ) , cremini ( crimini , baby portobello , baby bella , brown mushroom ) , and portbello ( portabella ) are all the same species . Specifically , <URL> . The difference in appearance and taste is based solely on maturity . The youngest are white button mushrooms , and the oldest are the big portobello mushrooms . There can be slight differences in skin color for the portobello 's , though it tends to be darker than the stark white of the button . The mushrooms in that video are most certainly fully mature agaricus bisporus , a portobello . It 's a safe bet that anytime you see a mushroom being substituted for a " steak " , that it will be a portobello . They have a rich meaty flavor and texture that is perfectly suited for this .
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
I 've actually found <URL> . They show the cakes that I 've seen in the past and also the shape that I mentioned in my post . It seems like you can : grill them - they will brown a bit and rise . boil them - they wo n't rise microwave them And the ways to serve it is with : Butter + soy sauce ( an interesting combo that I will try ) Rolled in ground sesame seeds + sugar or salt . Rolled kinako ( toasted soybean powder + sugar . ) UPDATE Boiled I cut them into about 1 inch x 1 inch pieces and threw them in boiling water . Boiled them for about a minute or so ... then removed them to a bowl of cold water to stop the cooking process . Dressings I tried butter + soy sauce ( 1 TBSP melted : 1/4 tsp soy sauce ) - It 's actually pretty good ! I also ground up some black sesame seeds with sugar ( 1 TBSP : 1/2 tsp sugar ) ... this was actually my favorite of the two .
This is called fruit leather . But I have never made it and can not comment on how to make it less chewy . I have eaten it though , and if my memory serves me right it was quite chewy and it most definitely got stuck in my teeth . Maybe it can not be avoided . Also , if you are cooking it at a low temperature ( I assume you are well below the boiling point ) the sugars will not caramelize . ( EDIT : Apparently , sugars will caramelize at low temperatures , but it will take a long time , see the comment by jkadlubowska below ) For that , much higher temperatures are needed . You are simply drying out the purée to the point where it becomes " leathery " . From a bit of googling it seems that 140 degrees F is the correct oven temperature to use .
My first reaction was to think that grapefruit seeds have cyanide , do n't they ? Nope , that 's apples , apricots and peaches . I did find an application you might find interesting : <URL> Self-made pure GSE processed without solvents is prepared by grinding the grapefruit seed and juiceless pulp , then mixing with glycerin . A few sites suggest that it 's not quite that simple , but a <URL> will give you quite a bit of reading material . If you try this , I hope you let us know how it goes !
For most vegetables , it is very difficult , if not impossible , to retain their quality once they have been cut . Your efforts would be much better spent either improving your cutting/chopping proficiency or in cooking entire meals ahead of time . Also , you could prepare components , such as sauteed onions or peppers , and maintain relatively high-quality versions of those . Meat is a different story . You can do preparations in advance , and freeze individual portions for later use without degrading quality . The best way to avoid freezer burn is to have a very cold freezer ( ironically , easing the cooling settings on your freezer was having the opposite of your desired effect ) , and to prevent your food from coming in contact with air . You can use a freezer bag for each food item , making sure you squeeze all the air out of it first . However , if you are really serious about this , you would be well-served by investing in a vacuum sealer . Air is the big enemy here , so mechanically removing air from the system will greatly extend freezer life .
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
Since it sounds like they are basically a dried out batter at this point , I would turn to implementations that rely on those kind of food-stuffs ; With some further baking and possibly additional brown sugar and butter or apple-sauce , I would use them for a crumble topping . If they are coffee and cinnamon an apple-cardamom cobbler would benefit nicely . The crumbles could be incorporated into a biscuit batter recipe In all likelihood , any kind of recipe that relies on a granola could probably be referenced for further ideas . You could also use the crumble as a stand-in for oat based no-bakes . The no-bakes might feel mealy to the tooth , so not entirely eliminating the oat might work best . If you wanted to repurpose , you might try thinking of it as a material to be suspended . With an ingredient like well-blended coconut butter ( not to be confused with coconut oil or milk or cream ) you could create a base with which to make a kind of post-raw bar cookie ( basically press and chill the coconut butter in a pan on top of wax/parchment paper , pulse the muffin bits with some dates or brown rice syrup , and once the butter sets press the bits/dates mixture into the top and drizzle with some ganache or whatever ) .
end question
start question
Is there a vegetarian gelatin substitute that is as strong as gelatin ?
This depends on what you mean by a gelatin " substitute " . What you have to understand is that while most hydrocolloids have gelling and stabilizing properties , they are not simply interchangeable . You ca n't substitute one of them 1-for-1 where you need gelatin and expect everything to just work . A great place to start would be the <URL> which , despite its name , is almost more of a cookbook , because it has detailed information on the properties of each hydrocolloid . <URL> is actually a stronger gelling agent than gelatin in the sense of having to use less of it to get the same strength , but you need to use it properly . The most important property of agar is that unlike gelatin , which gives hydration at temperatures as low as 50 ° C , agar requires a temperature of 90 ° C . In other words , you need to heat the water all the way to a rapid boil before the agar will actually " activate " . A light simmer is not enough . The other notable property of agar is syneresis , which is the loss of moisture over time . Agar sets extremely fast compared to gelatin and above room temperature , but unless you combine it with a small amount of <URL> , it will actually dry out . Otherwise , though , you can absolutely , definitely substitute agar-agar for gelatin if you actually get pure agar ( I made the mistake of buying the " dessert agar " once , which is not the same thing ) and hydrate/set it properly . In fact , the biggest concern with using agar as a substitute for gelatin is that you might end up with something too stiff , since gelatin produces a much softer gel . Perhaps the closest hydrocolloid to gelatin in terms of its properties is iota type carrageenan . Here 's a side-by-side comparison of the most important characteristics ( this is all taken from the HRC ) : Property | Gelatin | Carrageenan | Agar ------------------ + ----------- + ------------- + --------- <URL> | Yes | Yes | Yes Strength | Soft | Soft | Hard Elasticity | Elastic | Elastic | Brittle <URL> | No | Yes | No Hydration | 50 ° C | 70 ° C | 90 ° C Setting Temp . | 15 ° C | 40-70 ° C | 35-45 ° C Setting Speed | Slow | Fast | Fast Melting Temp . | 25-40 ° C | 45-80 ° C * | 80-90 ° C Viscosity | Low | Medium | Low Gelling Conc . | 0.6-1 .7 % | 1.0-1 .5 % | 0.2 % Syneresis | No | No | Yes You should be able to see by this how much closer carrageenan is to gelatin ; trouble is , it 's difficult to find , and you have to get the right kind ( the kappa type and other types have very different properties ) . There 's actually an even better type of carrageenan to use a gelatin substitute , if you can find it : It 's called <URL> and it 's specifically designed to be a gelatin replacement . I 'd like to also note for the record that the answer in your <URL> is not really appropriate for gelatin desserts that need to hold their shape . Xanthan gum is a fantastic and versatile hydrocolloid but ( to the best of my knowledge ) it does not " set " the way that gelatin , agar , or carrageenan do . It 's more of a thickener/emulsifier/stabilizer , at its highest concentrations being used to produce foams ( but not gels ) . It 's often used to stabilize other gels/foams but I 've never heard of it being used to create a gel on its own . Guar gum is also largely just a thickener , that you could use a stabler replacement for corn starch or arrowroot , which is also mentioned in that answer . None of these are appropriate at all for gels ( desserts ) , they are only useful as thickeners .
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
Given the source ( Michael Ruhlman ) and that it was linked by Seriouseats , I am willing to bet cash money that not only does it work exactly as stated , it will provide spectacular results .
I have found a few recipes on the web : <URL> <URL> There are also a few hard to find ready-made vegan Worcestershire sauces on the market , such as <URL> . When I read these recipes ( which I have never made ) I can tell that their flavor profile is missing some key aromas present in the original Worcestershire sauce . As strange as it may sound these sauces could use some of the aromas found in Parmigiano-Reggiano and in broccoli . Whichever recipe works out , someone should write a blog post on this topic .
According to <URL> , the main reason is that in raw packing , more air is introduced into the jar . This may lead to discoloration over time , which is an aesthetic issue , rather than a safety issue . Regarding hot packing , they describe the benefits : This practice helps to remove air from food tissues , shrinks food , helps keep the food from floating in the jars , increases vacuum in sealed jars , and improves shelf life . Preshrinking food also permits filling more food into each jar . They provide the following guidelines regarding which method to use : Use the hot-pack method , especially with acid foods to be processed in boiling water rather than a pressure canning method . The Raw pack method is fine for pickles and for vegetables to be processed in a pressure canner . See also : <URL> describing the differences , benefits , and reasoning in great detail .
It 's going to depend greatly on what you 're baking . Sugar serves several different purposes beyond just providing sweetness . Besides sweetness : tenderness by interrupting and minimizing gluten formation . Sugar promotes spread in cookies Retain moisture and extend keeping quality ( in baking sugar is actually considered a " liquid " ingredient due to its hygroscopic qualities - the ability to pull moisture from it 's surrounding atmosphere ) . Promotes browning and caramelizing Assists in aeration and leavening ( as in creaming butter and sugar to aerate the dough ) stabilizes egg whites Provides food for yeast growth and fermentation In some instances you might be able to use a syrup ( honey , corn syrup , molasses , etc. ) but not in all cases . For instance the granular nature of sugar is necessary for aeration of cookies and cakes because the jagged edges create air pockets as they pass through the fat . Syrups primarily serve the purposes of sweetening , browning , and moistening . Honey could be used in muffins that are being made using the muffin method ( aka two-bowl method ) because this method would use a liquid fat ( melted butter/oil ) but not in the creaming method ( producing a more cakelike structure from the creaming process ) . When using syrups you have to account for the addtional moisture that they provide . From : " How Baking Works " ( Paula Figoni ) " The National Honey Board recommneds the substitution for using honey in place of granulated sugar . This accounts for both the amount of water in honey and for its intense sweetness : use 1 pound honey in place of 1 pound granulated sugar ; reduce water ( or other liquid ) in the formula ( recipe ) by 2.5-3 ounces . " Overall , when making substitutions of ingredients that are critical to the structural and eating qualities you probably will not be able to replicate the same results with the substitution . In the end , it will often be a case of " what is the next best thing " and realizing there will be quality differences in the finished product .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
I think everyone agrees that " artisan " gets tossed around as a marketing term that is largely empty or vapid , referring as much to the " old world " images used on the bag than to the bread itself . However , I think there is an actual " artisan " quality to food , and that it relates to several qualities or ethics of the producer - which you do find in some actual bakeries : Develops their own recipes - an artisan baker should be developing recipes that meet their needs . If they do n't know enough to do that , then they are just following instructions . Tweaks recipes carefully over time to maximize the intended qualities of the bread . An " artisan " producer understands the variables that impact the quality of their product and constantly adjust them to keep the bread quality high , despite changing or variable ingredients . Follows the ethic of " Flavor Rules " , and flavor is the first priority . Of course they have to be a business-person as well , but recipe changes and enhancements should primarily be made to improve flavor , not reduce cost , improve packability , etc. . Has a real passion for what they are doing , and holds themselves to the highest standard . Artists are always the most critical of their own work , and are constantly looking for ways to improve . A home baker may not be an " artist " , but when I make " artisan breads " at home ( and I think this is what Peter R. is referring to ) , I do so with an intent to make the bread as good as I possibly can , even if this means baking it tomorrow instead of tonight , or ordering special flours online . I contrast this with my " makin ' dinner " baking , where I obviously want it to be good , but am willing to give up some perfection in order to get it done tonight . Neither method is inherently better , but they are undertaken with a different intent and process .
No , these are completely different products . As you indicate , so called " <URL> lt " is a mixture of sodium chloride ( regular salt ) and sodium nitrate ( or sodium nitrite ) for curing meats , tinted pink to distinguish it from regular table salt . it allows relatively accurate small batch curing , as in home sausage making . <URL> is a naturally mined rock salt , whose impurities can tint it a variety of colors , including pinkish , from iron oxide . Hawaiian pink salt is another naturally harvested salt whose red clay impurities tint it a pink color .
I see absolutely no reason not to do that . As you say , the very nature of diffusers is that they are n't smooth . Keep in mind that it 's not just extreme heat that you want to avoid , but also extreme changes in temperature . So you want to heat the tagine with the implement that you are using as a diffuser . Also , unglazed earthenware tagines are usually <URL> . Is your tagine glazed ? Apparently that process can also be called " healing " and involve garlic , although the term is from a different culture . <URL>
What you need for the conversion of collagen is a certain amount of energy . It is a complicated process - the melting point is around 70 ° C for the type of collagen contained in beef , but the melting does not happen instantly once the meat reaches 70 ° C . In a pressure cooking , you can apply the same amount of energy in a shorter amount of time . This is not bad , as opposed to slow roasting of collagen-poor meat . In collagen-poor meat , you have two types of protein , which are soft and wet . Under heat , they curdle , becoming tough and dry . The perfect meat is when the first type has curdled ( so the meat is not raw ) but the second has n't , so it still holds juices inside . If you curdle both , your meat gets tough and you ca n't take it apart with your teeth . In collagen-rich meat , you curdle both proteins - the collagen itself is tough and you want to melt it , but this happens long after the meat has curdled . But because the muscle fibers are not clinging to each other , but separated by collagen , you still get tasty meat . For that , you melt the collagen into gelatin , and serve the meat warm , so that the dry fibers are separated by the smooth , juicy melted gelatin . Unlike slow-roasted meat , you do n't have to tear the juiceless fibers apart , and the gelatin makes up for the missing meat juices which were expelled from the cells during curdling . So , in slow-roasted meat you do n't want to cross the temperature limit for curdling a certain protein , this is why you have to apply heat slowly until the center of the meat has cooked , without the outside getting overcooked . In collagen-rich meat , there is no upper limit at which the meat gets non-tasty , so you can push the energy needed for the collagen-to-gelatin conversion quickly into your meat . The pressure cooker can do this better than the normal boiling process .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
No , it 's not . White vinegar ( also known as distilled vinegar ) is made of acetic acid diluted in distilled water . Its flavor is simple -- its just sour . Typical concentrations range from 5 -- 7 % acetic acid . White wine vinegar is made by allowing white wine to turn to vinegar . It has a much more complex flavor profile . It is also frequently less sour ( acidic ) than distilled white vinegar .
To expand on what others above have said , Ultratex is tapioca starch , specifically tapioca maltodextrin . I imagine maltodextrin must be available in Australia . Occasionally health food stores sell it . If you go to khymos.org and search for the downloadable PDF ' Textures : A hydrocolloid recipe collection , ' you will find within a whole bunch of different thickening products ( both trade names and chemical names ) . Alternatively , simonjohnson.com.au carries the Texturas line of products from Albert and Ferran Adria , which includes a variety of thickening and gelling agents .
There are substitutes , but eggs have very important effects on the texture of dough and are therefore hard to substitute . You will need to experiment a great deal until you hit on the correct texture , because you 'll need to tweak all other ingredients and maybe include new ones , e.g. substitute part of the butter and use cream instead to account for moisture loss from egg substitutes . Mien 's link already includes some substitute ideas , like applesauce and commercial imitations . I ca n't give you more suggestions , because I always put eggs in my cakes ;) . But when tweaking , keep following in mind : Egg whites provide a resilient mesh which traps small air bubbles , so they make a cake more airy . You may need to adjust the baking powder upwards a bit . If it is a soda recipe , you 'll need to raise the acidity too . But the whole effect ca n't be approximated just with baking powder , because its bubbles are too big . For that , you need better emulsification ( covered below ) . Egg whites also have a binding quality . This should n't need compensation in a cake , as you need a dough without too much binding ( as opposed to bread ) , but if your cake starts falling apart , consider using a flour with higher gluten content ( all purpose flour instead of cake flour ) . Gluten binds too . If , on the other hand , your cake is too bread-like , then you may need less binding . The egg yolks are a source of fat , which prevents the dough gluten from forming a strong mesh by covering the particles . You will miss this with egg substitutes , especially if they are pectin-based ( like applesauce ) because pectin enhances binding . Use the lower gluten dough ( it it does n't cause the cake to fall apart ) or add more fat . Then there is the importance of emulsifiers . Egg yolks are one of the best sources of lecithin in the kitchen . An emulsifier helps your wet ingredients bind in an emulsion , instead of staying in two separate phases with the watery phase soaking the flour through and the fatty phase making the whole thing greasy . It also helps the trapping of very tiny air bubbles in the wet part of the dough ( this is what happens when you beat eggs with sugar on high speed until the colour lightens ) which provides a very fine leavening . Maybe commercial egg imitates contain emulsifiers - check the list - but if they do n't , you must buy pure lecithin . It is usually soy derived , but maybe you need to check with the manufacturer that your brand is suitable for vegetarians . Also , consider including cream , the fat in it is already emulsified in water , unlike butter ( which is water emulsified in fat ) . You must calculate precisely and tweak other ingredients to ensure that the total amount of fat and moisture do n't change ( except if you are compensating for the changes caused by the egg substitute ) . If it is a chocolate cake , consider reducing the fat and the flour and adding some cocoa powder ( the regular-fat variety ) . Cocoa has binding and thickening properties , and will help with the more even fat distribution . Melted chocolate tastes good in cakes , but makes them very dense , so do n't use it . The easiest way would be to find a recipe published by someone who has already done all the work . But just from paging through a cookbook , you ca n't tell if they did it right , or just slapped a spoon of applesauce instead of an egg and called it a vegan cake . Edit : I just had an idea when I saw Mien 's gelatine question and yours together in the list . I have n't heard of anybody using it , and do n't know if it will work , but it does , it will be great . So try it . I already said that using cream would help . As you need a foam full of very tiny bubbles for the perfect leavening , you could try whipped cream instead of whipped eggs . The trouble is that the air will get out of the batter very quickly while and after folding the cream . So you 'll need to stabilize it . Gelatine in unusually small quantities will make for a very nice experiment , but obviously not one you 'll want to do . But plant-derived gelling agents could help . Carrageenan is commonly used with dairy products , and you can buy it online . So try folding stabilized whipped cream into the batter .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
With every ( edible ) part of an animal , you should consider the former duty of the piece of meat at hand . This will influence the internal structure and thus the best method to prepare it . So throwing all chicken offal into one pot at the same time is probably not the wisest idea . Lets " dissect " what we are dealing with here : Liver and kidneys Basically no muscle fibers , just a very tender large gland . Keep in mind that there are no fibrous parts that " melt down " during a long cooking process , just tender stuff that gets very hard and dry when overcooked . So short is the key here - a quick sear in a hot pan and you are good to go . Depending on your personal preference , slightly pink or " just not pink any more " would be a good point to serve . Note that especially for organs from larger animals careful preparation is important : remove all hard parts like " vessels " and excess fat and wash kidneys well or soak them for half an hour to an hour . Some suggest soaking in milk . Hearts and stomachs Just the opposite - a hardworking muscle , garnished with a good amount of collagen . Here , you need time to break down the collagen . When you heat heart or gizzard , first the muscle parts toughen up , then the collagen breaks down and the piece gets tender again . Braising is a common method to acchieve good results . For chicken hearts , sources vary between 15 and 25 minutes braising after roasting/frying them in your pan . It may depend on the quality of meat at hand , where your personal " just right " is . Larger animals ' hearts may need much longer , a very old cook book of mine suggests 1.5 hours for beef hearts . Chicken gizzards are even tougher than hearts : did you notice the white lump of collagenous fibers on each side when cleaning them ? Give it time to get tender . It may take from thirty minutes to over an hour - sources vary .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
From my experience and what I 've seen , garlic cloves are often applied to soup in un-chopped glove . Overtime , the boiling will release the garlic 's sweet to the soup without melting itself into the liquid or dissolving into tidbits that attached to the ingredients . I have also seen people pan fry the garlic gloves to golden brown before dumping them into the water . I believe the purpose is to harden the outside of the garlic while getting more exotic flavor out of it . Otherwise , I would chop/dice/smash garlic for dips and frying .
I would use it for anything other than deep frying or high temperature frying . It would be great for anything that requires oil but not cooking , like hummus .
end question
start question
Does blending oil ( for vegan butter ) make hydrogenated oil ?
Oil is hydrogenated by bubbling hydrogen through it at high temperature ( on the order of 400 to 500 degrees F ) , in the presence of a catalyst such as nickel . Air is 0.00005 % hydrogen , you are probably not using temperatures high enough , nor doing it for a significantly long period of time , nor having an appropriate catalyst present . The amount of hydrogenation introduced via this recipe is somewhere between none and vanishingly small . However , coconut oil itself is about 92 % saturated fat -- which means the fats are naturally saturated with hydrogen . While a natural saturated fat , not a manufactured one , coconut oil is saturated . If your recipe is delicious and you enjoy it , eat up in moderation like anything else ( chocolate excepted ) . :-)
I had the same problem before , but I learned this great trick from Larousse : Try sprinkling slices of your eggplant with plenty of salt on both sides and let rest for about fifteen minutes . The salt will draw out a lot of water from the vegetable , making it less spongy . Then , dry off the slices before adding them to very hot oil in a frying pan . The hot oil should help make a nice sear , sealing off the eggplant , so it does n't soak up anymore oil . If you need to , turn down the heat after the eggplant is browned to let it finish cooking .
Disclaimer : I 've never tried to make a ganache with olive oil , so take that into consideration as you read the following . First , I have to assume that you 're trying to use olive oil to replace the cream that 's normally used in making ganache , perhaps to make a non-dairy ganache . If that 's not right , please clarify your question . Ganache is essentially an emulsion of cocoa butter ( usually from chocolate ) and cream , plus vanilla and/or other flavorings , that is allowed to cool to the point where the cocoa butter solidifies . It 's the solidified cocoa butter that gives ganache it 's firm texture . The greater the ratio of cocoa butter to cream , the firmer the ganache will be . If you want to replace the cream , you 'll need to make sure that you replace all the components that have an effect on the emulsion . Harold McGee 's <URL> explains the structure of ganache : The continuous phase of this mixture , the portion that permeates it , is a syrup made from the cream 's water and the chocolate 's sugar . Suspended in the syrup are the milk fat globules from the cream , and cocoa butter droplets and solid cocoa particles from the chocolate . He does n't say it , but I 'd guess that the milk proteins from the cream might act as emulsifiers to help stabilize the emulsion , much as they do with <URL> . The melting point of olive oil is obviously different from that of butterfat , but since you heat the cream in order to make ganache anyway , olive oil might still work . Given what McGee says , you 'll need to make sure that you add an appropriate amount of water so that there 's enough syrup to suspend the butterfat , cocoa butter , and solids . How much is an appropriate amount ? Cream is usually 20-40 % butterfat , so starting with a 1 part oil for 2 parts water seems reasonable . You might also need to add something that 'll act as an emulsifier , like lecithin .
I found the following information in <URL> : Because it is EU-designated external use only , [ mustard oil ] is therefore exempt from shipping regulations that would apply to foods . Thus , it can be shipped in a container truck that had previously contained , say , motor oil , or even something worse . This probably was the cause of the poisonings , because people have been consuming mustard oil for millennia without ill effect despite the current EU designation -- which seems to be causing greater problems than it is trying to save us from . I have n't personally verified this statement , but if true , it 's best to avoid the " for external use " oil .
Yes , I think you can . The page you link does list the oil as " food grade " , and specifies no added solvents ... so there 's probably nothing dangerous in the jar and it can be safely used for cooking . In general , though , you usually should n't equate cosmetic treatments and edible substances , even if some of the ingredients are the same ( soaps often do this , list all food sounding ingredients until a second glance reveals it , well , soap ) , or even if the base substance is the same but may have undergone different processes ( like coconut oil or cocoa butter ) . If the coconut oil had been processed with some non-food grade solvents or processes , it might be perfectly safe for topical application , and still be quite dangerous to consume . If you are questioning whether a substance might be an ingredient as well as a cosmetic treatment , look up the information , and I mean brand-specific product page , and see if it mentions " food grade " - that means exactly the bit of information you 're looking for , that it is of a high enough quality that it passes the tests they use for product meant to be eaten .
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
In a hot pan , the oil droplets jump off for three reasons usually : When you add oil to a hot pan that is not completely dry yet ( i.e some water present in the pan ) . This residue water will boil , turn into steam and splatter oil . When you are adding wet food to the hot oil . The water turns into steam and splatters oil . Solution : Making sure the food is fairly dry before putting in oil . E.g. drying vegetables with a paper towel . When you are turning food . Solution : as @Wayfaring Stranger said , flip to food towards the opposite end , not towards you . Another thing might be that you are using a very shallow walled-pan , but mostly , splattering oil is due to water being present .
<URL> , using olive oil to fry is basically a waste of money . " After I 'd heated them , none of the olive oils had much olive flavor left . In fact , they did n't taste much different from the seed oils . " According to a <URL> I have access to , you could use high oleic sunflower oil for frying as it degrades better .
You 've got to understand what the purpose of the ingredients is . In a crumble or streusel topping ( my go-to in the category is an apple crisp ) , the ( gluten/wheat ) flour , butter , and sugar are actually all binders/structural components . Taste/flavor is part of it , but as in your experiments in the other answer , you really ca n't vary one element wildly ( separate from the others ) without significantly changing the results . With that in mind , the butter in a crumble/streusel topping will affect the tenderness of the crumb ( similar to cake/pastry ) . Tenderness will also be affected by whether you used cold , melted , or softened butter ( or a non-butter shortening , like margarine or lard/Crisco ) . The tenderness goes to mouth-feel , which will affect how/when your tongue picks up on the diff flavors . Similarly , the temp/state of the butter/shortening affects how &amp; how much the sugar will dissolve/interact with it . Depending on what type of sugar you 're using ( granulated/white , dark/light brown , raw/demerara , liquid sweeteners like honey , corn syrup , molasses , or agave ) , cold/melted/soft butter will just have a different holding capacity for sugar , which cooks can take advantage of to " super-sweeten " or " under-sweeten " given fundamentally the same amount of sugar . And of course in a crumble , your perception of the sweetness of the finished topping will be impacted by the filling , since there 's ( delicious ! ) flavor interaction during cooking . So it comes down to ingredient preparation &amp; choice and cooking techniques - not just raw proportions . Cooking is a sort of applied chemistry - sometimes how you put things together is as/more important than what you put together .
I learned that the flame on the gas stove was to strong so I will try lowering the flame .
Butter is at most 82 % oil and the rest is water . So , you 're going to need to add more butter for the same amount of oil . Besides , you need to adjust the liquid content accordingly since you are going to have more water than you planned . If you are going to use the same amount of oil , then it will not make any difference other than the taste . Just make sure they are of same state ( i.e. melted butter instead of vegetable oil or vice versa )
Version B runs the risk of overheating the pan and damaging the coatings on it . I 've always been told to put oil in the pan before heating for that reason - nothing to do with taste . I 'd seriously doubt you could detect any difference in taste .
Well , this is a common confusion between " sour " and " bitter " . The better your olive oil is , the lower its acid value - extra virgin olive oil has the lowest acid value , it is pressed in ways that reduce contact with atmospheric oxygen . Contact with oxygen increases the acid value of olive oil . Whizzing olive oil in a blender aerates it , and the resultant oxidation increases the acid value , ie it gets more acidic and tastes " sourer " . Lots of people can discern the change , but they do n't use the right word to express it ...
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
For most oils , you can re-use them several times , if you 're OK with ( or want ) the flavors the oil takes on from the food cooked in it . The thing to watch is the smoke point . That 's when the oil starts sending off whisps of smoke . For coconut oil , that 's 350F . As oil is re-used , that smoke point starts to drop until it 's no longer able to stay hot enough to properly fry food . We 're dealing with an oil that has a relatively low smoke point in the first place at 350F , as opposed to 450F for peanut oil , and proper frying needs to be pretty close to 350F in order to have the moisture in the food hold out the oil from rushing into the food like a sponge . That , unfortunately means that coconut oil is n't a great candidate for re-use .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
I think you will have much better luck if you just wait to get an appropriate almond extract . Aside from the difficulty of mixing an oil based flavoring , you 'll run into texture issues if you do get it mixed . Generally an emulsion will be thicker than the component liquids . Further , the flavor probably wo n't be what you want . If you 're creating a water or alcohol based solution , an alcohol based extract will flavor it better . Oil based extracts are generally better for things with a higher fat content for the flavor to disperse into , ie : even if you get the oil emulsified , you wo n't have an almond flavored liquid , you 'll basically have almond flavored droplets suspended in another liquid . If you really want to go ahead , I 'd recommend lecithin and/or a hydrocolloid like guar gum . Both will result in the end product being more viscous though .
The oil is bubbling very simply because of the water inside the object ( eg : potato ) that is rapidly vaporized when come into contact with the very hot oil . Incidently this is a very good thing as done right , all the water coming out of the object keeps it from taking on too much oil , which would cause you to have over-greasy food . Edit : Also note as @SF commented below , that this can also be a very BAD thing if you put something with too much water into hot oil . Adding this in so nobody burns themselves .
Grapeseed oil 's high smoke point is good for dishes like stir frys where other oils might burn . However not as high a smoke point as Sunflower oil . Canola oil has a relatively low smoke point which will limit its applications . In addition , Grapeseed oil has a clean flavour where as Canola sometimes has a bitter edge to it . Other oils will have their own flavour characters . Which you use is partly personal taste and partly dependant on what you eat . For deep frying I 'd go to sunflower . It 's not the cheapest but not expensive either . It gives a nice crisp finish to most fried foods . If the oil is to be used cool , such as a dressing , olive oil would be my choice , simply for flavour . Since olive oil , like canola , has a low smoke piont , I would n't fry with it . For a high temperature frying such as a stir fry , your Grapeseed would be ideal . Also look at rice bran oil wich has a very high smoke point and clean flavour . Ideal for stir fries .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
end question
start question
Are sushi rice and arborio rice valid substitutes of each other ?
I 've done risotto with other short grain rices ( which includes sushi rice ) , with good results . I 've even used medium grain rice in a pinch , and you 'll have to stir more , but it 'll come out . I 'd assume the same would be true in reverse -- that most short grain rices ( incl . arborio ) would make a decent sushi ... unless it 's short grained brown rice , that 'd likely less you up . Basically , there 's three main varieties of rice : short , medium and long ( not including ' wild rice ' or how it 's treated ( white vs. brown vs. parboiled ) . So long as you stay within one group , you 're usually fine , so long as you do n't change the treatment or technique used to cook it .
I 've done risotto with other short grain rices ( which includes sushi rice ) , with good results . I 've even used medium grain rice in a pinch , and you 'll have to stir more , but it 'll come out . I 'd assume the same would be true in reverse -- that most short grain rices ( incl . arborio ) would make a decent sushi ... unless it 's short grained brown rice , that 'd likely less you up . Basically , there 's three main varieties of rice : short , medium and long ( not including ' wild rice ' or how it 's treated ( white vs. brown vs. parboiled ) . So long as you stay within one group , you 're usually fine , so long as you do n't change the treatment or technique used to cook it .
The only best option is complete thaw to get them in good shape and in one piece , but that is not an option for you . Next one up is the quick and sloppy method . But it will distroy the shape of the fish , hence the name . My tip : Wrap the pieces of fish in a cling film/kitchen foil individually next time before freezing . That will most certainly allow you to take a few pieces out without thawing or using knife/wedge etc. .
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
In the US , hamburgers are usually flat patties weighing somewhere between 3 and 8oz . and typically 100 % ground beef . Many variations are possible , including mixing spices and other ingredients into the meat , but binders such as egg and breadcrumbs are not common . The defining characteristics of a proper hamburger for most Americans are the shape ( flat ) , approximate size , beef as the primary ingredient , and sandwich-style presentation . A ground meat patty not made from beef is likely to be named differently ( lamb burger , turkey burger , etc. , even though the name ' hamburger ' has nothing to do with ham ) . Meatballs are smaller ( maybe 0.5 to 3oz ) , roughly spherical , more likely to be seasoned , much more likely to contain eggs and/or breadcrumbs as binders , made from just about any kind of meat , cooked differently , served differently . Also , the cultural traditions surrounding each are completely different . Spaghetti with meatballs and tomato sauce is classic comfort food ; spaghetti with hamburger is unthinkable . Meatballs are usually served in a sauce of some kind ; burgers ( beef or otherwise ) are served on a bun or bread with mayo , ketchup , mustard , melted cheese , lettuce , tomato , and so on . Many people like their hamburgers ( beef ) cooked rare or medium rare , but meatballs are always fully cooked . Meatballs can be held at temperature for a long time , or even cooked , chilled , and reheated ; only cafeterias and other low-quality , high volume restaurants would pre-cook and reheat a hamburger -- at home or at a good restaurant the burger would be served as soon as possible after cooking .
It should n't be a problem , since their cooking times are similar .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
Most people get burned biryani because of the rice . It must be soaked and the par cooked before going into the pot . Also the quality of the rice is important . IMO that would always be Basmati rice . I always soak my rice for an hour for any dish . The cooking vessel has to be heavy and sealed . This ensures that the cooking happens in an almost pressure cooker state inside the pot . Some people seal their pot lid with a flour dough . Cast iron pots are the best .
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
Basmati is classic . I am particularly fond of brown basmati rice , which has more flavor than white basmati , but it takes longer to cook and will go rancid after 6 months . If basmati is not available , any long-grain rice will suffice ; short-grain rice tends to be too sticky . As for technique , rinse the rice until the rinse-water runs clear . For every cup of rice , use 2 cups of water and 1/2 tsp salt . Bring the water to a boil ; add the rice and salt and reduce the heat to a simmer . Cook covered until the liquid has been absorbed and the texture of the rice is tender . For additions to the rice , you have LOADS of options . You can add a pinch of saffron to the water for a vibrant yellow color and distinctive floral aroma ( if you just want color , add 1/2 tsp ground turmeric ) . You can add chunks of peeled ginger , cracked peppercorns , whole peeled garlic cloves , whole cardamom pods , whole cloves , whole bay leaves , whole kaffir lime leaves , and/or whole stick cinnamon -- amounts and combinations are entirely up to your taste ( just remember to remove any bay leaves before serving ; remove the others or not as you like , but bay is inedible ) . You can also add cooked vegetables , such as peas , butter beans , pearl onions , and/or carrots .
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
Inside the rice cooker , there 's a thermostat monitoring the bowl 's temperature ( and kept in firm contact with the bowl via the spring ) . As long as the temperature does n't go above the boiling point of water , the rice cooker keeps cooking . Once it goes slightly above that point , the water must have all boiled off or been absorbed , and that means the rice is done , so the cooker switches to a much lower " keep warm " setting . This approach works only for foods that start wet and are done once the standing water is gone , which is why automatic rice cookers are common but there 's no comparably simple way to automatically cook pasta . Fancy rice cookers can be far more elaborate ( with microprocessors and whatnot ) , but simple rice cookers are very simple indeed , with no timing mechanism at all . This means they rely on putting in an appropriate amount of water for how much rice you are cooking . If you put in too little water , the rice cooker will stop when it 's gone but the rice wo n't be done . If you put in too much , you 'll get overcooked rice . Fortunately , rice is not super sensitive and you do n't have to measure carefully , but you need to get it approximately right . For different amounts of rice , you just have to scale the water accordingly . For lentils or beans , you 'll have to use a different water ratio , and you should look it up for the beans you have in mind ( and to make sure they can be cooked reasonably in a rice cooker in the first place ) ; I do n't know how to predict it from first principles .
The usual purpose of pressure in pressure cookers is that they can heat water to > 100 ° C without it starting to boil , thereby reducing cooking time .
You can eat even shell . Ground shell is used in French <URL> to thicken the soup and make it more flavored .
There are substitutes , but eggs have very important effects on the texture of dough and are therefore hard to substitute . You will need to experiment a great deal until you hit on the correct texture , because you 'll need to tweak all other ingredients and maybe include new ones , e.g. substitute part of the butter and use cream instead to account for moisture loss from egg substitutes . Mien 's link already includes some substitute ideas , like applesauce and commercial imitations . I ca n't give you more suggestions , because I always put eggs in my cakes ;) . But when tweaking , keep following in mind : Egg whites provide a resilient mesh which traps small air bubbles , so they make a cake more airy . You may need to adjust the baking powder upwards a bit . If it is a soda recipe , you 'll need to raise the acidity too . But the whole effect ca n't be approximated just with baking powder , because its bubbles are too big . For that , you need better emulsification ( covered below ) . Egg whites also have a binding quality . This should n't need compensation in a cake , as you need a dough without too much binding ( as opposed to bread ) , but if your cake starts falling apart , consider using a flour with higher gluten content ( all purpose flour instead of cake flour ) . Gluten binds too . If , on the other hand , your cake is too bread-like , then you may need less binding . The egg yolks are a source of fat , which prevents the dough gluten from forming a strong mesh by covering the particles . You will miss this with egg substitutes , especially if they are pectin-based ( like applesauce ) because pectin enhances binding . Use the lower gluten dough ( it it does n't cause the cake to fall apart ) or add more fat . Then there is the importance of emulsifiers . Egg yolks are one of the best sources of lecithin in the kitchen . An emulsifier helps your wet ingredients bind in an emulsion , instead of staying in two separate phases with the watery phase soaking the flour through and the fatty phase making the whole thing greasy . It also helps the trapping of very tiny air bubbles in the wet part of the dough ( this is what happens when you beat eggs with sugar on high speed until the colour lightens ) which provides a very fine leavening . Maybe commercial egg imitates contain emulsifiers - check the list - but if they do n't , you must buy pure lecithin . It is usually soy derived , but maybe you need to check with the manufacturer that your brand is suitable for vegetarians . Also , consider including cream , the fat in it is already emulsified in water , unlike butter ( which is water emulsified in fat ) . You must calculate precisely and tweak other ingredients to ensure that the total amount of fat and moisture do n't change ( except if you are compensating for the changes caused by the egg substitute ) . If it is a chocolate cake , consider reducing the fat and the flour and adding some cocoa powder ( the regular-fat variety ) . Cocoa has binding and thickening properties , and will help with the more even fat distribution . Melted chocolate tastes good in cakes , but makes them very dense , so do n't use it . The easiest way would be to find a recipe published by someone who has already done all the work . But just from paging through a cookbook , you ca n't tell if they did it right , or just slapped a spoon of applesauce instead of an egg and called it a vegan cake . Edit : I just had an idea when I saw Mien 's gelatine question and yours together in the list . I have n't heard of anybody using it , and do n't know if it will work , but it does , it will be great . So try it . I already said that using cream would help . As you need a foam full of very tiny bubbles for the perfect leavening , you could try whipped cream instead of whipped eggs . The trouble is that the air will get out of the batter very quickly while and after folding the cream . So you 'll need to stabilize it . Gelatine in unusually small quantities will make for a very nice experiment , but obviously not one you 'll want to do . But plant-derived gelling agents could help . Carrageenan is commonly used with dairy products , and you can buy it online . So try folding stabilized whipped cream into the batter .
If you want something storebought , just get pumpkin puree - it is squash puree , not really even a substitute . Pumpkins are squash , and " pumpkin " is a pretty broad term , covering a lot of winter squash . In fact canned pumpkin is often made with things more similar to butternut squash than what you 'd think of as pumpkin ( jack-o ' - lanterns and all ) . Just make sure you do n't accidentally get some kind of pumpkin pie mix that has spices and maybe other things added . I suppose if you ca n't find that either , you could also look at baby food , since squash is fairly common there . If you really ca n't find anything in the store , though , do n't just give up on the recipe . It really is incredibly easy to make - just cut squash in half , throw in the oven cut side down , bake until it 's soft , scoop it out and mash up a bit . The actual active working time is only a couple minutes , and you 'll probably get much better flavor than you would from canned goods .
As long as the containers can support eachother , it is likely safe to stack them . You biggest issue will be uneven reheating . Containers at the center are likely to remain cold . If you do stack them , insure that you occasionally rotate them . If possible , try to stack them in a way that allows for air flow around them . Stack layers at 90 degree angles . The flash point of paper is about 450F so you should be fine with the covers .
end question
start question
What 's the purpose of adding water to an egg wash ?
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
Fix Compacted Flour . Flour will compact over time ( and during shipment ) . You could sift the flour to fluff it back up . Or , you could just stir it before measuring and be sure to spoon the flour into your measuring cup in order to get a correct volume measurement . Remove Unwanted Material . Yes , sifting would also remove larger pieces or bits of chaff . It would also remove insects . However , neither of these are problems with modern store-bought flour . If you grind your own flour ( my sister-in-law does this ) , then you may still want to sift it , though . Mix Ingredients Together . Sifting can also be used to mix other dry ingredients into flour . I bake quite a bit , though , and I 've never had a problem with just using a spoon or whisk to mix dry ingredients together . In summary : do n't bother . Just use good measuring techniques and stir your ingredients together well . No one likes a lump of baking powder lurking in a muffin !
The best way I 've found so far ( for juicing ) is to just thoroughly squeeze the pieces between thumb and forefinger over the flat part of the juicer chute so the juice flows down the chute and the seeds pop out for removal .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
If you just need the pulp ( for pie , ice cream , jam , etc. . . ) then cook them down and run them through a food strainer . If you need them raw , or halved/skins on , then find a good audiobook ...
It means , basically , to stir in some warm liquid to prevent it from later curdling . Once the egg is warmed and mixed with some of your sauce , it can safely be incorporated into the rest of the high-temperature sauce without ( as much ) fear that you 're going to end up with scrambled eggs floating around in your hollandaise . Generally , you crack the egg in a bowl , and spoon in a little sauce , mix it , spoon in a little more , mix it , and then you should be good to go . It goes without saying that if the sauce you spoon in curdles the egg , discard , and start again .
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Fried Eggs : Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped , unbroken yolk . The top of the egg is just barely set . Basted -- Sunny Side Up , hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque . Over Easy / lite -- Flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk runny . Over medium -- flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk creamy ( not completely runny ) . Over Medium Well -- Flipped , unbroken yolk , yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center . Over Hard -- Flipped , broken , fully-cooked yolk . Over Well -- Flipped , intact , fully-cooked yolk . Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely . Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways . Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan , and often stirred while cooking . Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk , cream , butter , or oil . A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry , which refers to the degree of doneness . Omelettes : Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking , possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs . Cooked in fat in a saute pan ; when set but the interior still wet , previously-cooked fillings ( cheese , onions , mushrooms , peppers , tomatoes ... ) are added , and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape . Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled , but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked , thus incorporating the fillings into the egg . Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately . Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites . Optional toppings are added . Cooked slowly in a pan , or baked ( an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation ) . Boiled : Cooked in shell in water for a timed period . Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time , i.e. , a " 3-minute egg " is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk . Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water , others to be started in cold water . In the cold-water start , the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil . The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed . Soft -- Yolk runny , potentially with slight unset white around the yolk . Medium -- White completely set , yolk firm but with a dark , wet appearance . Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow . Poached : Egg cooked , out of shell , in water , stock , or other liquid -- excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180 ˚F ( 70-82 ˚C ) . There are possible degrees of doneness , however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white . Coddled : An egg that has been very lightly cooked ( poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled ) . This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point . Shirred : An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300 's ˚F ( ~ 160 ˚C ) , contained in a ramekin , until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened . Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking . Steamed : Very similar to shirred eggs , but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes . In a basket : Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread
Specifically , the reason you whisk it in slowly at first is to create small drops . If you just dump the oil in fast , it will adhere to itself and make it impossible to break up into droplets dispersed in the vinegar ( or other water based liquid , such as lemon juice ) . This is the definition of an emulsion : tiny droplets of one liquid evenly dispersed in another . Once you 've got the emulsion started , you can pour in the oil a bit faster because the already suspended droplets reduce the room for a big blob of oil to form , and act sort of as " sandpaper " to break up the incoming stream as you whisk .
The way I do it is put 1-2 tbsp of oil in my pot , add 1/3 cup or so of corn , cover , and heat on medium until it starts popping , then turn down a bit and shake the pot occasionally until it is all popped . So , not oil free , but not a whole lot of oil either .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Chia seeds can be used without soaking , but they absorb a LOT of liquid and create a gel . If this is n't accounted for in your recipe , they could cause the finished product to have an odd texture . At the very least , I 'd add extra liquid to your batter and let it sit for a few minutes to check it 's consistency before you use it .
If you try regular oats and like them , then you might try flaked/rolled barley , if you can find it . If you have refrigeration at work ( or just bring in one-day 's worth each morning ) , you could also add wheat germ ( I ca n't imagine having a bowl-ful of it , but adding some to your oats would change them up . ) Wheetabix or shredded wheat can also be prepared with boiling water for a hot cereal . Late recall - " Grape Nuts ® " is another one that can be done hot , even if it normally is n't .
The primary purpose is for flavor . If it 's the expense of a large bottle for a few tablespoons here and there you should be able to buy the mini bottles ( as are served on airplanes ) from a local liquor store . If you do n't want to use or have it around due to issues with alcohol then look for other items that have as similar flavor to substitute . Sherry has a sweet nutty flavor to it and apple juice can often work suitably well . Keep in mind you 'll probably not find an exact flavor match but it can be close . A small amount of orange extract could be used in place of grand marnier . Depending on the item , you might also try flavored syrups that are used for coffee drinks . Remember that these have a lot of sugar in them so you 'll need to compensate by cutting back on sugar elsewhere in the recipe and obviously do n't use them where the sweet flavor would n't be welcome .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
The real issue , I think , is that you want to add the egg whites immediately before service , as they will begin deflating once they are whipped and mixed in . So instead of holding the mix a certain period of time , instead you hold the mix until prior to service , and then fold in the whites , which should be freshly whipped .
The chemical responsible for " the burn " is Capsaicin . The main reason you and everyone else has trouble with the lingering burning sensation is that it 's not water soluble ( which means it does n't dissolve in water ) . So , flooding your mouth with water-based liquids does n't loosen up those Capsaicin molecules on your tongue and throat . Like @Iuls says , the most common and effective relief comes from full-fat milk or cream . That 's because , while Capsaicin is n't able to be dissolved by water , it is fat soluble . It 's also why more than a few people have been upset that the " milk solution " did n't work , when they tried it with skim milk . If you 're looking for a more " fun " solution , it 's worth noting that Capsaicin is also alcohol soluble , which might explain all of that tequila and beer they sell at Mexican restaurants .
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
end question
start question
In ingredient lists , does " lime " mean the fruit or the chemical ?
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
It means to combine the things listed up to and including the cloves , as in " combine ingredients 4 through 11 " . In that recipe it 's just a helpful hint to tell you where the dry ingredients stop . The recipe is already calling for ground cloves - it mixes them into dry ingredients as-is . When using whole cloves , if you do n't immediately just grind them , you generally cook them in something liquid then strain them out later . ( Similar to cinnamon sticks or whole allspice . ) The cinnamon and nutmeg in the recipe are also ground , not whole . If a recipe wants whole cloves , it will explicitly say , and often count them : 10 [ whole ] cloves .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
In Rome I was informed that I was eating a croissant with honey on top ( after informing my host that I had a honey allergy ) . It had the sweetness that I suspect you 're experiencing . To help you determine if we were trying the same thing : the croissant I had was shiny and slightly sticky on top , and it seemed more like it was brushed on top rather than drizzled . That would support @Carmi 's answer that it was brushed on with the egg . It was definitely honey , though , not sugar syrup .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
The beard is also known as byssus threads . They are the filaments that the mussel uses to secure itself to hard surfaces . They are usually brownish and may appear somewhat like seaweed . Most mussels commercially available have been farm-raised so often the beards have already been removed during processing . If you have beards , grasp them firmly and pull towards the shell hinge until it comes out . You may need to use a dry paper towel to increase your grip as they can be slippery .
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 'm going to assume this is an American recipe , as <URL> . With broiling , the oven only heats the top element in the oven , and you turn the element or burner up as hot as it can get . It 's not a specific temperature , as in most ovens , that would cause it to cycle on &amp; off . ( in fact , when broiling , you typically leave the door open specifically so the oven wo n't heat up so far that it decides to cycle the burner off to cool down ) . It 's about extreme high heat , from a single side . ( top in the US , bottom in the UK and Australia ) You typically need to pay close attention to whatever 's under the broiler , as it can go from golden brown to charred very , very quickly .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
It 's not the mushrooms that are important , it 's the " crowding " -- basically , you do n't want so much food in the pan at once that the bits are packed tightly , or in more than one layer . This is especially important for items that give off a lot of water as they cook ( like mushrooms ) , or that you 're trying to get to crisp up , as you want to leave space for the moisture to evaporate and escape without causing the food to steam .
The grade is by whole carcass . <URL> History of beef grading in the US <URL>
The number specifies the diameter of the grinder plate # 5 is 2 1/8 inches # 8 is 2 1/2 inches # 10 and # 12 are 2 3/4 inches # 20 and # 22 are 3 1/4 inches # 32 is 3 7/8 inches
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
Is everything graded on the same scale ( with the same labels ) ? No . Grading is specific to every kind of fruit or vegetable , and often grading can be different depending on the form of the produce ( fresh vs. canned vs. frozen vs. juice vs. headed for further processing , etc. ) . Also , different nomenclature is used for different produce : some use " Grade A , " " Grade B , " etc. . Some use " No. 1 , " " No. 2 , " etc. . The number of grades can vary . And some use other nomenclature like " Fancy Grade " or " Commercial Grade , " either by themselves or in combination with the numerical/letter grade system . And is all produce graded , so that for example I can go to the store and find out what grade their supply of a given fruit is ? Grading is voluntary , and it generally costs producers to do it . Unless there is a complaint about quality , many domestic producers wo n't bother , particularly if they are selling at a local market or something . For marketing agreements , they are often required , though . And international shipments are required to be graded , but only small samples from a given shipment are generally inspected . What characteristics do the grades generally depend on , and what characteristics do they ignore ? You really can only tell by reading the individual grading policies for specific produce ( there are guidelines for well over 100 different types/forms of fruits and vegetables ) . The guidelines for <URL> and for <URL> . Also , note that these are only national USDA guidelines . States and regional markets can also set their own grading policies , so a " medium " tomato sold at a state farmers market might be the same as an " X-large " tomato on the USDA grading scale . But in general , grading often covers things like : Size ( sometimes specifying different size grades or minimum size for grading ) Appearance ( color , shape , " mature " enough to ensure proper ripening if not ripe already , proper trimming if applicable , extraneous pieces like stems on small fruit , etc. ) Texture ( firmness , smoothness , general " ripe " characteristics , etc. ) Defects ( blemishes , dirt , decay/spoilage , pest damage/disease , damage from sun/heat or cold , foreign material , etc. ) Allowable tolerances ( allowed deviation levels in above characteristics or percentage of pieces allowed to be non-compliant in various characteristics ) Characteristics generally NOT covered by grading : Flavor/taste Interior of produce ( since grading generally focuses on exterior inspection unless there is suspicion of unseen rot , disease , etc. ) Packaging ( beyond some note of packing that is likely to damage produce )
" Shortness " in dough refers to its tenderness which is influenced by the amount of fat as well as sugar . If your quiche recipe is calling for a short dough , it would be referring to a higher ratio of fat since pastry for quiche typically does n't include sugar . Both fat and sugar minimize and break down gluten development which results in " short " protein strands and thus a more tender result . As the fat is rubbed into the flour glutenin ( providing strength ) and gliadin ( providing elasticity ) are coated with the fat which acts as a lubricant to keep the two from being able to link together forming gluten when liquid is added to the mix . The higher the amount of fat in a dough the more tender it will be . If you want a dough to be flaky then you 'd leave the fat in larger particles which will blister to form flakes . If you want a dough that will be moisture resistant to fillings ( such as a quiche ) then work that fat in finely so that it will be less likely to absorb moisture during and after baking . Quiche crusts ( and crusts for other custard based pies ... pumpkin , sweet potato , custard , etc ) should first be blind-baked for the crispest crust in the finished result . As for " fixing " a pastry dough ... it 's usually easiest and best to simply start over . Water is added a little at a time to avoid adding too much . If too much water is used then more flour needs to be added but with the excessive flour and water then comes additional gluten . If you get a pastry dough too wet , I would be inclined to rub some additional fat into flour and then add that to the first dough rather than just flour alone . Too little shortening will really only be noticed after baking and that 's going to be determined through how tough or tender the dough is . Keep in mind that toughness also depends on the amount you 've handled it . Short doughs typically ca n't be handled too much because the higher amount of fat means that they will warm and get sticky . It is best to refrigerate to firm up the fat rather than add flour as the flour simply dries it out . The tender nature of the dough from sugar means that in some cases they can be impossible to roll out and transfer to a pan . In this case they are usually put into the bottom of the pan and then patted out across the bottom and up the side .
end question
start question
Difference between Pancakes and " Kaiserschmarrn " ?
There is a wide range of pancake variants . <URL> are an egg-white leavened pancake often served with fruit and nuts , with the pancake itself being shredded for presentation . This is different than the most typical pancakes served in the US , which are not egg-white leavened , but baking powder leavened , but it is still a type of pancake .
There are three major properties an edible fat ( I am assuming you are not asking about inedible oils like petroleum based products ) has that affect how it is best used : Flavor Saturation Smoke point Properties Flavor The flavor of the fat is very important . So called <URL> ( like canola oil or refined grapeseed oil , or refined peanut oil , among many others ) have very little flavor and so are suitable for almost any cooking task , as they will not interfere with or compete with the other flavors in the dish . Other oils such as sesame oil are primarily used for the delicious flavor that they provide , and are almost more of a condiment than an oil for culinary purposes . In between are oils like olive oil and coconut oil which have a distinctive flavor , but also have good qualities for cooking . Many non-oil fats used in cooking ( like butter , or bacon fat , lard , or suet ) also have distinctive flavors . Saturation The level of <URL> in the fat controls how hard the fat is at room temperature . Most oils are fairly low in saturation , and are so quite liquid even at room temperature . The major exceptions among the vegetable based lipids are coconut oil and cocoa butter . Coconut oil is solid at room temperature , and cocoa butter is actually quite hard at room temperature . Note that while you only asked about " oils " , many common cooking fats not usually called an oil are much more saturated , including butter , lard , and hydrogenated vegetable oil such as the US brand Crisco . The level of saturation can affect texture of baked goods made with a given oil , and whether the fat is suitable for the creaming method or in making laminated pastry in baking . Saturated fats also resist rancidity better over time better than non-saturated fats ( although they are still subject to rancidity ) . Smoke Point The smoke point of a fat or oil is temperature to which it can be heated before it begins smokng . Oils which have a high smoke point ( such as grapeseed oil or peanut oil among others ) are more suitable for high temperature searing , or deep frying . Applications The oil for a given application is based on the properties it has . Cooking For general cooking uses ( by which I am inferring general sauteeing , shallow frying , greasing of casserole dishes , and so on is meant ) , normally you want a fat which is either : Neutral in flavor so as not to interfere with the dish . The neutral oils are all useful for this . Complimentary in flavor , to enhance the dish . Many cuisines have traditional fats which are flavorful , but are integrated into their cuisine , such as olive oil or butter . Saturation matters less ( as the fat can be melted before greasing a pan , for example ) , and smoke point is not terribly relevant unless the application is searing , in which case you want a very high smoke point . Depending on the application and the cuisine from which a dish derives , almost any oil or fat may be used for general cooking purposes . The major exception is sesame oil , which is so flavorful that it is used as a condiment , not a fat , for culinary purposes . Deep Frying The most important aspect for deep frying is smoke point . A low smoke point oil would break down and add off flavors to the dish ( not to mention making the kitchen smoky and setting off smoke alarms ) . Secondarily , for oils that are going to be reused over time , saturated fats such as hydrogenated vegetable shortenings break down more slowly , and may be considered advantageous . Generally , flavorful oils are not indicated , as the same factors that give them good flavor often give them low smoke points . Some good oils for deep frying include peanut oil , canola oil , or hydrogenated vegetable shortening . Dressing For most dressings ( by which I infer you mean salad dressings as used in many Western style cuisines ) , the most important factors are flavor and saturation . You want an oil with good flavor ( such as olive oil ) or neutral flavor ( such as the many neutral oils like canola , refined peanut , corn oil , and so on ) . Most dressings also need an oil which is liquid at room temperature , and thus low in saturation . The major exception is the class of hot dressings made with bacon fat . Many dressings are made from olive oil , or one of the neutral oils . Baking While you did not ask about baking applications , there are two types of baking which require a fat with specific properties : cakes made by the creaming method , and laminated pastries like croissants or puff pastry . These applications require a fat which is solid at room temperature , but still plastic enough to be manipulated . Generally , only butter and hydrogenated vegetable oil are suitable . Bottom Line The oil or fat you choose for any particular purpose will be based on what is best for that application -- but a good neutral oil with a high smoke point such as refined peanut oil or canola oil can serve the vast majority of culinary purposes most of the time . See also : <URL> <URL>
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
Coriander leaf/cilantro looks VERY similar to flat leaf parsley . When I have both at the house I sometimes resort to smelling them to know which is which . Cilantro is very strong smelling , and you 'd definitely change the flavor of the dish if you left it out . Flat leaf parsley is significantly more subtle and has a much milder flavor and scent . It is not flavorless , and in a recipe that calls for a lot of it , you 'd really be missing something by leaving it out . When you 've got a recipe that calls for both parsley and cilantro , you 're definitely going to be more able to taste/smell the cilantro more than parsley , but they 'll both contribute different notes . If you have to leave one out , leave out the parsley , but do n't try to make up the volume with more cilantro , as you may wind up overpowering your dish . Just leave the parsley out and proceed as normal . Do not use curly leave parsley in anything -- it is tough and virtually flavorless . It is ONLY a garnish and not worth wasting your time on .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
They 're the same thing . About the only difference is that " garbanzo bean " is less common in British English than in American English , and chickpea is more common either way , but it 's just a language thing . There are indeed different varieties , with some smaller and some larger , but they do n't have common language names like that . <URL> : Desi , which has small , darker seeds and a rough coat , cultivated mostly in the India and much of the Indian Subcontinent , as well as Ethiopia , Mexico , and Iran . Bombay ( Bambai ) , which is also dark in colour but slightly larger in size than the Desi variety . They too are popular in the Indian Subcontinent . Kabuli , associated with Kabul in Afghanistan . These are lighter coloured , with larger seeds and a smoother coat , mainly grown in Southern Europe , Northern Africa , South America and Indian Subcontinent , having been introduced during the 18th century to India . Note that it says that one of the smaller varieties is commonly grown in Mexico , so the blog is n't really even quite correct to say " large Mexican chickpeas " ( though I 've certainly also seen large chickpeas from Mexican brands ) . I would n't lend too much authority to that blog post on that particular point . ( A lot of the rest is subjective too , of course . )
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
Separating the eggs and whipping the egg whites before folding into the batter could assist in this . At home it 's not a problem , but if it 's a very busy that you had them in they 're not likely to be doing this due to the fact that this will need to be done in batches . Adding a bit of baking soda in addition to the baking powder could assist as well , but only if you 're using buttermilk . If you 're using regular milk the baking soda is going to create a soapy taste . In the case of buttermilk and baking soda , the primary leavening would be coming from the baking powder and then the acidity of the buttermilk would provide the reaction for the soda to give that extra " oomph " . If you 're using baking soda then you 'll have to use the batter right away otherwise those bubble will rise to the surface and pop , releasing their CO2 to the air . Same goes with adding seltzer water ... add just before cooking the pancakes . As for replacing milk with seltzer water ... this will add bubbles to the batter but having less fat in the batter ( presuming you 're using whole milk ) will increase the gluten development . If you 're using low-fat or nonfat buttermilk or regular milk it may not be as much of a difference . The benefit of buttermilk ( besides flavor ) is the acidity that it provides . Acidic doughs do n't allow gluten to develop as easily and therefore create a more tender texture . Overmixing pancake batter is a MAJOR issue with most people . Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients , add the liquid ingredients which have already been beaten together and then carefuly fold just until combined so there are n't major pockets of dry ingredients but by no means should the batter be smooth . Mixing to a smooth consistency will develop gluten and create tough pancakes . A few lumps are fine as they will hydrate upon sitting . If you 're not using baking soda and seltzer water you can improve tenderness by letting your pancake batter sit after mixing for 30-60 minutes . This is the idea behind chilling pastry crusts . It not only allows gluten to relax but mainly it allows the starch granules of the flour to absorb moisture , hydrate , and expand ( bloom ) . This is could likely be part of what contributed to the pancakes you enjoyed at the restaurant . If it 's a very busy place , most likely they produce their pancake batter in large batches a day ahead for the next day 's service . This extended resting time would allow for maximum hydration of the starch which will make a thicker batter . The thicker the batter the less spread you 'll have on the griddle . Obviously this provides limitations if you wake up with an appetite for pancakes !
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
end question
start question
How long does Marsala wine last , after opening ?
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
There is not really a turning point . The way that wine goes bad is the process of making vinegar . From wikipedia : The word " vinegar " derives from the Old French vin aigre , meaning " sour wine " . The Canadian government limits things that can be sold as ' vinegar ' to something with an acetic acid content of 4-12 % , so you could do the technical-bureaucratic thing and wait for the acetic acid to get up to 4 % . If you are n't hung up on technicalities , then you can use it as soon as it gets sour enough . It is done when all the alcohol has been changed to acetic acid , but it is a bit hard to taste since the acetic flavor dominates .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
Details on beef color changes can be found <URL> . Briefly : When beef is first cut ( or ground or whatever ) , it has a purplish hue , caused by deoxymyoglobin , a pigment that can only exist in the absence of oxygen . When exposed to oxygen , a chemical reaction occurs , producing oxymyoglobin , which leads to the bright cherry red color most people associate with " fresh meat . " Eventually , the molecule oxydizes , producing metmyoglobin , which can no longer bind oxygen -- and this turns the meat brown . ( There are natural enzymes present which can convert back to oxymyoglobin when in the presence of sufficient oxygen , though these will eventually be depleted . Packaging can preserve the strong oxygen-rich environment for longer , which is why grocery store meat stays bright red on the surface . ) When meat is cooked , the globin denatures and forms a tan/gray hemichrome pigment which can no longer convert back to the other myoglobin pigments . Anyhow , this is all a preface to explain that certain chemical additives will change the chemistry here , pushing the reactions to move to or away from certain pigment states . The primary one that you mentioned is salt . As discussed in the linked article : If salt has been incorporated into patties or is present in the case of enhanced steaks , salt decreases metmyoglobin reducing activity allowing more MMb to accumulate [ i.e. , turning brown ] ... In addition , salt promotes heat denaturation , or breakdown , of myoglobin [ i.e. , turning tan or gray ] . Basically , salt causes the pigmentation molecules to convert faster to states resembling old or cooked meat , causing the color change you see .
They will technically last a long time in the freezer - up to many months - but this is not the best way to store them as they lose flavor quickly ( as little as 5-6 uses ) . Even though the beans will last , storing them in the freezer is not ideal . It affects flavor for a number of reasons . ( See below ) If you have n't opened the bag , store the bag in the cupboard , away from sunlight , heat , and excess humidity . The best way to store coffee beans after being opened is in an opaque , airtight container at room temperature ( unless you have a resealable bag with a degassing valve designed for storing coffee ) . After being opened , the beans are considered fresh for 2-3 weeks , although if you are strict about the storage you may be able to get up to 5 out of them . ( When I say fresh , I mean with minimal flavor change/loss ) Why the freezer is bad : Freezing beans severely lowers the humidity in the bag or container . This causes the beans to become stale very quickly . In effect , you are slowly freeze drying them . Also using cold beans in a grinder can mess with grind due to the oil on the beans being in a more solid state , which in turn affects the brewing . If you do decide to store them in the freezer , put them in an airtight container and when you go to use the beans let the container warm up to room temperature before opening . This way you do not mess with the overall humidity content of the container too much . Especially let them warm up to room temperature before grinding . Sources : I am a Barista in a cafe and a lover of coffee at home . I have tried both methods of coffee storage and have dealt with many customers who have tried both . In my store we follow these regulations : Beans that go into an opaque container that is not totally airtight are fresh for two weeks max . Packaged beans with a degassing valve are fresh for six months or longer in the bag . Beans , once ground , can not be used after two hours ( that being said , ground coffee starts losing flavor immediately ) . Obviously , the sooner you use everything the better , but we follow those guidelines .
[ Edited ] I think 10 hours would be safe enough for most food : the first couple of hours the fridge will still be quite cold , and after that it takes more than a few ours for most food to spoil . When I leave milk out of the fridge for three hours at room temperature ( say , 20 ° C ) , nothing happens . I do this often . And the temperature inside the fridge will never reach room temperature in those 10 hours . When it is really hot in summer , it might spoil after 2 hours outside the fridge , but otherwise it takes much longer . Cheese , food in jars , sauces , leftover cooked food : none of these are more sensitive to spoiling than milk . Fresh herbs are probably equally sensitive . Eggs are much less sensitive . The most sensitive kinds of food I can think of are probably raw meat and raw fish without preservatives . Smoked or salted meat and fish do not count : they can be kept much longer . I think even raw meat and fish will pull through , but you might want to apply the following tips to be sure . Tip 1 : put as much material in your fridge as possible . That will " absorb the cold " that your fridge feeds it while power is still on . Then , once power goes out , the " cold reserve " in your fridge will be significantly increased , so that the average temperature of the interior will stay colder for a much longer time . The higher the <URL> , the better . See <URL> for the best material ; water probably wins . So stuffing bags of water in every nook and cranny would seem like a good idea . Or else bottles . Tip 2 : if you have a freezer , stuff it with bags and/or bottles of water , and put most of those in the fridge once power goes out ( swap with some of the bags/bottles that were in the fridge ) . The freezer will probably do better , because it has much better insulation than the fridge . And put the most sensitive foods in the freezer maybe a few hours after power goes out ( or maybe later -- lest they freeze after all ) . Actually , start putting as much water bags/bottles in the freezer as you can several hours before power goes out , and move them to the fridge once frozen . They will remain half-frozen for hours and hours in the fridge , so they will add extra coolness to the fridge . This way you 're " saving up " cold from the freezer and increasing your cold reserve even more . Tip 3 : most refrigerators have a temperature slide/wheel/thing , which determines what temperature the thermostat aims at . You could set the slide to maximum power ( so lowest temperature ) a few hours before the power outage . Most people , including me , have the slide somewhere in the middle normally . The slide usually does n't mark the exact temperature , but rather some symbols . It is usually found inside the refrigerator . Tip 4 : cook and/or eat any raw fish and meat before the outage . I think it would not be necessary at all if you follow the above tips , but cooking your meat now may just be simpler . Then either store the cooked meat or eat it . Incidentally , I would n't half-cook any meat : that may actually increase the rate of bacterial growth if it does n't kill the bacteria completely . But something like salmon can be ( fully ) cooked first , reheated later .
Having not had horsemeat myself , I can only inquire with one who has : they found it to taste like bland but tender red meat . So , use mild reds for pairing like you would for beef tenderloin : Cabernet Sauvigonon Pinot Noir Lighter-bodied Shiraz/Syrah
Eggs will last two to four days in the refrigerator . Source : StillTasty ( <URL> &amp; <URL> )
The shooter 's sandwich you linked involves cooked mushrooms and fried steaks . In contemporary food safety practice , this is not shelf-stable at all . It can be held 3-5 days in the fridge , or up to 2 hours at room temperature . I can imagine that hunters did take it on longer trips historically . They lived in a time when mild food poisoning ( symptoms limited to bloating and light diarrhoe ) was commonplace , and the average person experienced it as often as the common cold , if not a bit more frequently . More serious types of foodborne illness were less frequent , but still appeared with some regularity in a given population . There are two reasons we do n't eat this way today . First , our standard of living is higher . We have the possibility to drastically reduce our risk of food-borne illness by choosing nutritious shelf-stable food for situations we need it , and we have much higher expectations of our own quality of life , including the expectation that the chance of getting bloating from a sandwich should be close to zero , not close to 10 % . Second , our meat today well may have much more pathogen contamination than in the past . If you slaughter one healthy animal in your small farm , the worst you get spread over the meat are some E. coli from inside its own guts , and normal E. coli do n't cause too bad symptoms ( mutations can be <URL> , but they are also exceedingly rare ) . Today , animals are penned together by the thousands , exchanging exotic pathogens while still alive , and then are slaughtered and eviscerated in efficient conveyor-like manner , so that if one cow had some unpleasant bacteria from somewhere , they will probably cross-contaminate the steaks from hundreds of other cows slaughtered in the same shift . Bottom line : It is absolutely not safe . You are free to decide to take the risk and eat it , but by the usual standards in the food industry , this is an unacceptably high risk , and it is foolish to take it .
From <URL> published by the United States Department of Agriculture : Is Frozen Food Safe ? Food stored constantly at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) will always be safe . Only the quality suffers with lengthy freezer storage . Freezing keeps food safe by slowing the movement of molecules , causing microbes to enter a dormant stage . Freezing preserves food for extended periods because it prevents the growth of microorganisms that cause both food spoilage and foodborne illness . Does Freezing Destroy Bacteria &amp; Parasites ? Freezing to 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) inactivates any microbes -- bacteria , yeasts and molds -- present in food . Once thawed , however , these microbes can again become active , multiplying under the right conditions to levels that can lead to foodborne illness . Since they will then grow at about the same rate as microorganisms on fresh food , you must handle thawed items as you would any perishable food . Trichina and other parasites can be destroyed by sub-zero freezing temperatures . However , very strict government-supervised conditions must be met . Home freezing can not be relied upon to destroy trichina . Thorough cooking , however , will destroy all parasites . Freshness &amp; Quality Freshness and quality at the time of freezing affect the condition of frozen foods . If frozen at peak quality , thawed foods emerge tasting better than foods frozen near the end of their useful life . So freeze items you wo n't use quickly sooner rather than later . Store all foods at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or lower to retain vitamin content , color ,
According to <URL> , cream cheese , opened should last about two weeks between 32 ' f and 40 ' f. For the cheese itself , unopened , they recommend to " Use within one week of the ' best when purchased by ' date " . Unfortunately , in this situation , you can not simply cut away the mold from the cheese since it is a mixed dish . When you factor in the fact that the cheese was not only unwrapped , but heated along with other components , and likely sat out for some time on the counter in addition to in the pan , with added protein ( the black beans especially ) , the math for how long cream cheese can last in your fridge shrinks and shrinks . Personally , I would follow the cooked meat guidelines to be on the safe side . This means that well-wrapped leftovers , quickly taken out of the danger zone range of temps ( <URL> ) , should last for 3-4 days after cooking .
The main point , IMHO , is to make an easy to use and flavorful compound butter . It can be put on top of grilled meats , tossed in with a sautee of meat/veggies/pasta , etc. . I would finely mince some onion or shallot and garlic . Lightly sweat them , then add wine and reduce . Add some fresh herbs and the butter and melt to combine . I then cool this until lightly set , then roll it in a tube in some plastic wrap and freeze it . It can then be sliced off , like tubed cookie dough , and placed on top of grilled/baked meats , etc. . . The wine and herbs add a rich , deep flavor that can be used in a variety of ways .
Hard cheeses ( e.g. parmesan ) will typically last several months in the refrigerator once removed from the packaging . The larger the chunk , the longer it will last . If mold forms on the outside , simply cut it off and continue using . There is no reason to throw-away good parmesan .
Yes , it will " make it last longer in the fridge " for a certain definition of " last longer " : it will not mould nor infect other foodstuffs in the fridge if it does n't come into direct contact with any of them . Is it still safe to eat after a few of these re-heatings ? Very probably not ! Elaboration : More then half of the number of cells in your body are actually bacteria ; bacteria do n't generally kill you but the toxins they release is what kills you . E.g. Botulinum Toxinum D ( one of the toxins released during Botulism ) has an LD50 of 0.4 ng/kg , which means that you need about 500g ( a pound ) to kill 99.9 % of all human beings on the entire planet ... ( And that is for just a few re-heatings ; for " nearly indefinitely " we need to bring extremophiles in the equation ... ) <URL>
Throw it out . Tofu has a very short life . Once opened it can last up to 5 days in the refrigerator , but only if you store it submerged in water , and change it daily . See also : <URL>
Wine vinegar and wine are very different although are produced from the same thing . Wine vinegars are vinegars produced from fermenting wine by acetic acid bacteria which convert the ethanol in wine into acetic acid . Being a vinegar , it is much sharper than wine although like wine many flavours can be detected beyond the generic sharp lemon-like flavour , particularly in the premium aged varieties such as balsamic vinegar from Modena . Wine vinegar has no alcoholic content in it and so there is no need to ' burn off the alcohol ' which you would do when cooking with wine . Wine has a much subtler flavour and so would use it in things like gravies , sauces , etc. . Likewise , vinegar is much stronger and I would mainly use it in vinaigrettes or in small quantities in cooking ( ie finishing of a dish with a small drizzle of vinegar ) in much the same way as you might use lemon .
Surely you figured something out by now , but here is what I would do . First , look closely and carefully for surface mold . Look around the rim of the container . If that is clear , smell the oil for rancidity . If it stinks , throw it out . At this point , it looks good and it smells good . I ca n't imagine a dish where the roux is not thoroughly heated , so unless you are pioneering some kind of cold ingredient , cold roux dish , I think you are good to go . The sealed roux in the fridge should behave like a confit and retard spoilage for a while . If you did a dark roux ( like a cajun style ) it should last a really long time . They sell it in jars in New Orleans supermarkets , and if memory serves , the jar said something like 90 days in the fridge after opening .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
... as long as it needs to , depending on a wide variety of factors . You can shape it for baking , put it in the fridge , let it rise , pull it out of the fridge and put it in the oven - no warming up time at all . If you are going to punch down/knead/form after it comes out of the fridge , you can do all that cold , and let it rise as long as it needs to before baking - which will depend on the dough and the room temperature . Or you can let the bulk dough warm a while .
end question
start question
How to salvage a cookie dough that is too sweet ?
It is almost impossible to reduce the sweetness of cookie dough once made , without further reducing the quality . The closest you could come would be to create a second batch of cookie dough ingredients with reduced sugar , and combine it with your existing dough . However , it will be difficult to achieve good integration of the two batches , and even if you do , the extra working of the first batch from the mixing will create additional gluten , making tougher cookies . In this case , you might want to try some sort of tart lemon glaze or perhaps a very bittersweet chocolate icing to compliment your cookies and reduce the impression of sweetness . On the other hand , except for butter , sugar cookies contain no expensive ingredients . It may not be worth trying to salvage this batch . In the end , this is probably a lesson learned that your particular recipe is not to your liking as is . Next time , you will want to either reduce the sugar , or use another recipe .
The USDA does regulate a notion of " organic " in the US . Here 's their <URL> . Many of the links there are quite relevant . The best one for you is probably the <URL> , though many others would be informative for you . The <URL> contains more details about labeling restrictions , and the <URL> page contains further links including the actual regulations . In terms of labeling , as described in the linked page on labeling , yes , the USDA regulates the usage of the USDA organic seal : Look at the label . If you see the USDA organic seal , the product is certified organic and has 95 percent or more organic content . For multi-ingredient products such as bread or soup , if the label claims that it is made with specified organic ingredients , you can be confident that those specific ingredients have been certified organic . Unfortunately many other people do have their own notions of what organic means , and if you see the term used without the seal , then you ca n't really tell what standards it was held to .
In the general case , it is not possible . As you cook meat past about 165 F , all of the proteins will have denatured and contracted , squeezing out moisture . This is what makes well done meat tough and stringy or rubbery . This process can not really be reversed , although you can try to mask it with a sauce . In the specific case of certain cuts -- the ones famous for braises or barbecue , the " low and slow " cooking techniques -- there is some hope , but it is a thin one depending on what you have been doing . These cuts , the most active working parts of the animal such as the shoulders ( chuck for beef or butt for pork ) have a great deal of intramuscular fat , as well as connective tissue made of a protein called collagen . Over time , when cooked slowly at temperatures of about 180 F , the collagen in the meat will turn into gelatin , which has a silky , smooth mouth feel , and the fat will lubricate the meat . They still have their proteins irreversibly dentures and tightened , but the gelatin and fat provide a new kind of moisture and unctuousness that is highly prized . The cooking techniques for this ( braising , barbecuing , slow roasting ) are rarely employed for chops or steaks that you would do in the frying pan . They also simply do n't have the collagen or the fat to make it possible . That is why they are better off with the higher temperature , faster cooking methods , but should not be overcooked , as you have discovered to your dismay . Your best option is not to try to recover from this situation , which is very difficult to do , but rather to learn to prevent it : Get a good instant read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your steaks or chops Learn what the safe temperature is for that type of meat . For example , poultry and pork should both be cooked to at least 155 F ( and for poultry , many people have learned to like even more done meat ) The FDA recommends 165 F for ground meat ( which is quite well done ) Measure the temperature of your meat and learn to recognize when it is done Assess what level of risk you are willing to accept Over time , you will learn to recognize when cuts are done to your liking by how they feel when you poke them with your finger ( which is a pretty good indication of how done they are , based on how resilient they are ) , but the thermometer will be your guide until you build that experience . Still , this will require that you adjust your expectations of what completely cooked meat looks like . Pork may still be a touch rosy , for example .
Aging time is one factor that you might consider , but the amount of fruit you 're using , how it 's prepared , and other factors can have an impact too . You 're correct that the seeds and kernels of stone fruits can produce harmful substances , namely cyanide . More properly , they contain <URL> , which is readily extracted from the kernels by ethanol . This substance can be broken down by enzymes ( either those in the fruit , or in your intestinal tract ) to <URL> . To be fair , there are plenty of <URL> that contain minute amounts of cyanide precursors , but <URL> . Cyanide is obviously very lethal , and there is real risk to consuming raw stone fruit pits . In general , the amounts required are fairly high , depending somewhat on the specific fruit . Somewhere between 13-15 peach pits , 17-20 apricot pits , or a full cup of apple seeds <URL> , assuming that you really wanted to choke down raw peach pits . Because of their smaller body mass , these amounts can be lower for children . Distilled alcoholic beverages are also a particular concern because harmful substances can be concentrated in the distillate . Peach brandy made by crushing and fermenting whole peaches ( including the pits ) was a popular liquor in the colonial-era United States ( fun fact : even its first president <URL> ) but fell out of favor after it was implicated in multiple deaths . Modern producers of the plum brandy slivovitz also run the risk of creating cyanide in their finished product , but fortunately there are means of neutralizing and removing the toxin during distillation by <URL> . Now that you 're sufficiently terrified , here are some mitigating factors . I ca n't find reliable information on the amygdalin content of <URL> . They may contain a fair amount , or very little . They seem to be used in a wide variety of different preparations , so it seems unlikely that they 're particularly toxic ; otherwise a cultural aversion to them would probably have developed . The enzymes that break down amygdalin into cyanide work most actively when the pit is crushed , so how you 're preparing the fruit is a big factor . If they 're left whole or only lightly crushed , the alcohol has relatively little surface area to contact and wo n't be able to extract as much amygdalin . If the pit remains undamaged , then the enzymes that would convert amygdalin to cyanide would remain mostly unactivated . This is n't a distilled preparation , it 's an infusion . At most , you 'd be able to extract as much amygdalin as is present in the fruit - which could still be hazardous , but is n't being concentrated further . If there is extended contact between crushed pits and the alcohol , then macerating for longer than instructed could be problematic . But in that case , the hazardous substance is already being extracted , and the original recipe could already make you sick if consumed in sufficient quantity . A potential fix for this would be to remove the seeds , but from your question I 'm assuming that they 're already included in the recipe . In general , I 'd say there 's more to worry about here than over-infusing the fruit . if you 've made this before and consumed it without adverse effects , then letting the fruit extract for longer in your next batch will probably not kill you . But be aware ( and if you 're giving this away , be sure the recipients are aware ! ) that there may be a small amount of hazardous substance in the end product . Overconsumption could indeed make you very sick ( over and above the potential problems with too much alcohol ) and the only way to be completely safe is to not drink it at all . That said , there are measured risks involved in consuming many types of food and drink , from undercooked meat to homemade preserves . If you 're preparing this for your own use , and you 're aware of the risks , then it 's your body and your health , and you can make your own decisions regarding risk .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
Sweet , semisweet , etc. are American terms for the different chocolate " grades " and are determined by the amount of cocoa mass in the chocolate . In many other countries , terms referring to " darkness " are used . But do n't go ahead and use just any chocolate labelled " dark " , because there are huge differences between brands . I have seen 40 % chocolate marketed as " very dark " or " bitter " chocolate . You should look at the ingredients instead . They list the amount of cocoa mass ( = the sum of cocoa solids + cocoa butter ) . White chocolate is always clearly labelled as such , and seldom has a percentage listed for the cocoa mass . This is OK , because you can easily distinguish it . Milk chocolate has around 30 % cocoa mass , and contains milk in addition to the other ingredients . Semisweet chocolate has at least 35 % cocoa , but can be anything between 40 % and 65 % depending on availability and taste . Here you get into " real chocolate " territory . The only ingredients should be cocoa ( can be listed as cocoa butter , cocoa solids , cocoa mass , cocoa liquor , or cocoa particles ) , sugar , and maybe some vanilla . Different forms of sugar are OK , for example organic chocolates often use raw cane sugar . Stay away from anything with vegetable fat , emulgators , and/or E-numbers listed on the package . If you have the choice , prefer chocolates with higher cocoa butter to cocoa solids ratio ( but this information is seldom available ) . Bittersweet chocolate is somewhere in the 70 % to 99 % range . It has the same ingredients as semisweet , just in different proportions . Unsweetened or baking chocolate is essentially 100 % cocoa mass , and may or may not be processed or conched to the same smooth texture as chocolates intended for eating or candy making , depending on the manufacturer . Be aware that the limits are somewhat arbitrary - some authors count a 72 % chocolate to the semisweets , not to the bitters . But I have found these ranges to work well . Usually , you have some leeway , because the texture of whatever you bake ( and even of conditor chocolate items ) does n't change all that much with ten percent difference in the cocoa amount , there are factors which bring in a larger error anyway . To warn you , almost none of the popular chocolate brands for eating are good for serious baking , including the ones you linked . Cadbury , Milka , Hershey 's and so on are no good . Also , what you see in the baking aisle sold under the name " baking chocolate " or " block chocolate " is probably no good either . At least here in Germany , it is made mostly out of hardened vegetable fat mixed with some cocoa solids . Pure chocolate is too expensive to gain popularity . The cheapest one around here is Lindt excelsior ( not the Lindor line which has vegetable fat ) for around 2 Euros per 100 g . If you are in the supermarket , you should try looking through the ingredient lists of the " premium " brands to see if one of them is good enough . Else , you can try to find good chocolate online . Some stores will even sell true conditor chocolate ( Varhlona , Callebaut ) in household amounts , but this is still very rare .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
There are quite a few very sophisticated market gardeners in New Zealand producing greens and micro-greens like no other in the world Especially from the Pukekohe , and other volcanic silt soils areas , it 's hard to grow anything bad . The crisp mornings at this time of year , and the naturally nutritious soils result in greens including kale that are very sweet and tasty
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
I am afraid that it is quite hard to prepare it yourself . And you do n't start from phylo dough . Kataifi is not shredded , it is spun . You need a hot metal wheel for that . It is made from a batter which is thrown on the wheel , and because the wheel is spun , it bakes on the wheel in threads . You need not only the instruments ( this wheel ) , but also quite a bit of experience to throw it in even threads . Kataifi makers are a popular attraction on middle-eastern markets . If you ca n't visit one , you have to visit an ethnic grocery store to buy the prepared kataifi noodles .
The rest period hydrates the starches in flour , giving the dough a firmer and more workable texture ( there is some very minor gluten development , but its mostly the expansion of the starch bundles with water ) . In many cookies , the flavors will also mature and improve , especially with cocoa in the recipe . In many recipes , the cooling from refrigeration is itself part of the point -- doughs may be easier to roll and cut when they are cool due to chilling of the fat . Most dietary fats are waxy , which means they do n't have a single set freezing/melting point , but rather get more viscous or eventually firmer then hard as temperature drops . For example , linzer cookie dough is very frangible , and the chilling and hydration make rolling and cutting much easier . Generally , most of this affect is going to happen in the first 8 hours or so . The overnight thing is simply for convenience in most cases . In fact , 4 hours is often enough , although obviously not in your case . If the major effect is chilling in your recipe , by flattening the dough to a disk , or lengthening it to a log ( thus increasing surface area ) compared to a ball , it will chill more rapidly . You mentioned this is a high fat recipe -- if that fat is butter ( as it so often is with cookies ) , that may help .
Beans split because the seed coat is n't soft enough when the interior of the bean rehydrates . Two factors that can help ease this problem : soak your beans to make sure the seed coat is well rehydrated when the bean interior cooks . This is the big one - heavily salt your soaking water . The salt ions will replace calcium in the bean skins and soften them . You will have magically whole beans . Refer to <URL> on chili which contains this image : <URL>
Yes , the original recipes involved an enormous amount of trial and error . People baked , swapped recipes , and the good ones were desirable and became widespread , while the bad ones died out . The advanced knowledge of food chemistry was n't even available at the time - Hannah Glasse published her cookbook more then 100 years before Mendeleev published the periodic table . Luckily , you do n't have to go through the same process if you want to invent a good recipe now . There are only a few basic ingredients in baking - eggs , sugar , flour , water - and you can be sure that all possible ways to combine them , as well as most secondary additions and substitutions , have been thoroughly explored . People have distilled the knowledge of this exploration in books , and you can use this basic knowledge to build new recipes which will function with a high probability . Before you develop a baking recipe , there are four things you have to know . Technique . If you want to create a cookie recipe , you will have to use creaming . If you want to make a new kind of eclair , you have to know how to prepare a basic pate a choux . There are cookbooks teaching these techniques , some of them are explained in questions here on SA . Base ratio . For most baked goods , there are ratios which give you the best results . For example , for a crepe you want 1 part flour , two parts egg and two parts liquid . As long as you keep that , you can let your imagination run free by using different liquids , or adding spices , or even plopping pieces of fruit in the pan and pouring the batter over them . You can learn about this from Ruhlman 's book Ratio , or use a known-good recipe for a plain variant of the good you are trying to make as your starting point . Flavor combinations . You can add any ingredients you want , but there is no guarantee they will work well together . Choosing the right ones is a combination of talent ( being able to imagine what a combination will taste like before you have had it ) and experience . You should try to be more analytical about the flavors of things you eat - which tastes can you distinguish ? Which aromas ? What makes them go well together ? Is it their similarity , or the contrast ? - and when you have done that long enough , you will be able to predict the goodness of a combination . A book to help you along is The Flavor Bible , which describes good combinations . You can also take popular combinations and transfer them across types of food . For example , if you like apple-cinnamon pie , you can try to make cinnamon cookies glued in pairs with apple butter . Ingredients ' structure and their role in the baked good . This knowledge is maybe the least usual among home cooks . When you create new recipes , you will always dilute the base formula , or use substitutions . If you do n't have this knowledge , it will be hit-or-miss whether your new recipe will work or not . It is a bit like rebuilding a house 's interior without knowing which walls are load-bearing and which are n't . If you know what each ingredient does in a recipe , you will know when a substitution is possible and when it is n't . For example , many people will tell you that applesauce is a substitute for eggs . And you can indeed bake a cake with applesauce instead of eggs , but do n't try to whip a mayonnaise with it . This is because eggs have a different role in cake and mayonnaise . Learning about these roles requires a lot of effort , and a curiosity about these things . Most people will find it easier to just try whatever they feel like , and live with the occasional failed new-recipe attempt . If you would rather learn about them , I can recommend two sources . One is Cooking for geeks by Jeff Potter , which is short and does n't go into the depth of things , but offers lots of useful information and is easy to read , or the really exhaustive book called On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee , which runs to about 800 pages and goes into detail most people do n't want to know about , but is a must-read if you are fascinated by food science . And , of course you can always just run into the kitchen and experiment . Do n't forget to document along the way so you can reproduce your results ! Basically , you can always have luck and hit a good new recipe , the knowledge I listed above ( combined with some baking experience ) helps you increase your first-try success rate from about 2-3 % as a full amateur to somewhere about 80 % or more . It is your decision how to divide your time between reading and baking , any combination can function , depending on your learning style .
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
There are varieties of carrots that have been bred for extra sugar , but you wo n't find them in your typical grocery store . Most of the grocery store carrots have been bred for color , shape , production and storage . In grocery stores that sell loose carrots , you can sometimes find ' winter carrots ' . They 're quite large ( nearly 2 " / 5cm across ) . These are carrots that have been left in the ground over the winter -- they are typically much sweeter than carrots that are taken out of the ground in warmer weather . I have seen larger carrots at the latin markets and restaurant supply stores near me , but I 've never done side-by-side taste tests to confirm if these are sweeter than standard grocery store carrots . There are also seed companies ( eg , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) who sell varieties bred specifically for their sugar content , much like what 's being done with corn . If you grow your own , you can seek these out , or you can check to see if any of the farmer 's markets near you carry them . Much like heirloom tomatoes , they 're often a bit stranger in color and shape than what you get in the grocery stores -- they might be short and stubby , or have a dramatic taper that is n't useful to make ' baby carrots ' )
end question
start question
Wine selection when dining on horse meat ?
Having not had horsemeat myself , I can only inquire with one who has : they found it to taste like bland but tender red meat . So , use mild reds for pairing like you would for beef tenderloin : Cabernet Sauvigonon Pinot Noir Lighter-bodied Shiraz/Syrah
Of course you can make gyoza with raw meat -- that would be the traditional method . You can find countless recipes , including raw meat ones , simply by googling " <URL> " . While perhaps less common , you can also google " <URL> " to find many options using chicken such as <URL> , although there are some false hits mixed in that are not chicken based . Gyoza ( which are the Japanese version of pot stickers ) are normally not much larger than bite sized . This small size will help ensure that they are cooked through during the hybrid frying/steaming method that gives them their crispy bottoms , which is normally similar to : Fry the dumplings , flat side down , until the bottoms begin to be brown . Add water to the pan , and cover , creating a makeshift steaming environment to cook the dumpling through . Allow the water to evaporate and the bottoms to re-crisp . While it is is fairly difficult to take the internal temperature of a single dumpling ( you probably can if you have a very high quality instant-read thermometer with a short probe distance , like a Thermapen ) , you can still judge their doneness indirectly by squeezing . They will be quite firm . The small size ( even very big Chinese style pot stickers tend not to be more than an inch/couple cm wide , although they may be longer ) helps make sure they can cook through very quickly ; steaming is also a very effective method at transferring heat into the target food . So yes , making gyoza with raw meat , done with some care , is safe .
In order to develop browning for a good , deep flavor on the meat , you need a high temperature and a long enough time that having the onions in the pan the entire time would leave them overcooked . Also , the onions would express water , which would lower the temperature to simmer or steam , preventing the beef from browning . For these reasons , it is common to sear or brown the ground ( minced ) meat , and then add the onions to cook through when it is done or nearly done . You certainly could cook the onions separately , either in the same pan , or in a different pan . Many people do n't consider the extra effort and cleanup to be worth any marginal improvement in results .
There are a couple of reasons why ' resting ' meat is a good idea . First , as the meat cooks the muscle fibres contract , which forces the juices out . Letting the meat rest helps the muscle fibres relax so the juices are re-incorporated into the meat and not lost on the chopping board , which would happen if carved immediately . The second reason to let meat rest is to provide an evenness . Basically as the meat rests it continues to cook slightly and it allows the meat to gain an overall ' doneness '
Having not had horsemeat myself , I can only inquire with one who has : they found it to taste like bland but tender red meat . So , use mild reds for pairing like you would for beef tenderloin : Cabernet Sauvigonon Pinot Noir Lighter-bodied Shiraz/Syrah
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , you ca n't . Or at least , you wo n't get the result you 're really looking for . Water needs to be able to move through the meat for the salt and flavorings to be transported to the inner cells of the meat . When the meat 's frozen , you 're dealing with ice crystals . ... that being said , you can <URL> if you 're desperate , but you have less control to know exactly how much salt will be absorbed . ( and I vaguely remember another question on here about temperature &amp; brining , and I seem to recall someone reported on experimental results that really cold brines did n't transfer flavors deeply into the meat . ) .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
We have a convection oven and almost always use it . I ca n't remember the last time we did n't use convection . Our model automatically decreases the temperature , so if you set it for 300 , then it will heat to 275 . Not sure if that is a magic 25 degree number , but it seems to work . Almost all recipes cook time wise as they would with a non-convection oven . Our also has a single and multi-rack mode , and it circulates the air differently in that case . We have NEVER had any problems with the food drying out more with the air circulation as they say that is a common negative . I am sure the effectiveness varies oven to oven , but in our case , we always use it ( except for broiling of course ) .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
There is not really a turning point . The way that wine goes bad is the process of making vinegar . From wikipedia : The word " vinegar " derives from the Old French vin aigre , meaning " sour wine " . The Canadian government limits things that can be sold as ' vinegar ' to something with an acetic acid content of 4-12 % , so you could do the technical-bureaucratic thing and wait for the acetic acid to get up to 4 % . If you are n't hung up on technicalities , then you can use it as soon as it gets sour enough . It is done when all the alcohol has been changed to acetic acid , but it is a bit hard to taste since the acetic flavor dominates .
This deli meat you speak of is generally made of small scraps of mechanically-separated meat that are essentially " glued " together into a solid mass by enzymes that partially break down the tissue . This processed " meat brick " does n't really have the same texture as an intact muscle tissue , which has individual muscle fibers aligned along a " grain " that makes it pleasantly chewy . Folding/layering/rolling slices of processed meat gives it more of a texture and chew , and tricks you into thinking you 're eating an actual piece of animal muscle instead of meat-flavored jelly .
The main factors a base liquid can contribute to a marinade are : Bulk -- enough volume to reach all of the food . Acidity -- helps tenderize the surface of meats , and provides a bright flavor balance Sweetness -- helps provide a flavor balance Viscosity -- helps the marinade stick to or coat the target food Enzymatic activity -- some liquids ( such as pineapple juice ) have active enzymes which can break down proteins , tenderizing them in the short term ( with the danger of turning them mushy in the long term ) Flavor profile -- contribute flavor to the marinade , and thus to the food it adheres to or sauces it is eventually incorporated into You did not provide a recipe , but in most Chinese dishes , the vinegar or rice wine in the marinade contributes some acidity ( rice vinegar not always being as strong as western vinegar ) , possibly some sweetness , and of course , the characteristic flavor . However , Chinese marinades are not normally used for long enough periods , nor are they acidic enough for the acid to be an active ingredient ; it is just part of the overall flavor balance . Therefore , whiskey should serve well for most purposes , assuming you like the flavor it brings . While it probably has less acid than vinegar or wine , this is unlikely to be a significant difference .
Common noob mistakes : Cooking things too long . Meat dries out when it 's cooked to too high an internal temperature . That 's the whole thing , and it 's true no matter how you cook something . If you like your meat to be completely devoid of pink inside , it will be dry . No avoiding it . Find out what 's a good temperature for the doneness you desire , and use an instant-read thermometer to find out when you get there . You will also find that some cuts of meat want more cooking than others . A skirt steak wants hardly any cooking because it dries out easily . A New York strip , with good fat marbling , can withstand more cooking because it has that nice fat to keep things moist . Cooking with too much heat or too little . When the heat 's too high , you burn the outside before the middle can get to the temperature you want . If it 's too low , you never really get a good sear on the outside , and miss out on much of the grilled food experience . And you 'll need to learn to tailor your heat to the needs of what you 're cooking -- fish typically needs less than chicken , which needs less than beef or lamb . Putting the meat on too early . You need to wait for the charcoal to ash over and stop flaming . If you do n't wait for the coals to get right , you run a much greater risk of flare-ups and scorched food , not to mention off flavors from unburned wood or fillers in your charcoal . This is a non-issue with gas grills . Not preheating the grate . You need to put the grill grate over the coals as soon as you can so it preheats well . If your grate is n't preheated , you wo n't get grill marks , and your meat is more likely to stick . You need to do this if you have a gas grill too -- maybe more so , since they typically do n't get as hot . I 'd recommend that you find a basic book about grilling . Any of Steven Raichlen 's books will give you the general tips on how to do things . I 'm not wild about his overuse of rubs and sauces -- I think they 're totally unnecessary most of the time -- but he does know his way around a fire and a grill grate . However , if you want your meat well-done , be prepared to eat a lot of dry ( and likely tough ) meat . Your only option at that point is to switch to low-and-slow techniques that cook things like pork shoulder for a really long time at a low temperature ( traditional barbecue ) . The meat gets fully cooked , but because it has a lot of fat and connective tissue to render , retains a moist mouthfeel . But this is n't grilling , per se , and takes many hours .
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
Well , I can definitely point you in the right direction towards a Cook 's Illustrated test of vacuum wine keepers . Unfortunately , I do n't have a membership to their website , but this free portion of the article suggests that at least some of them do in fact work better than just replacing the cork . " For our wine stopper test , we evaluated several methods of saving leftover wine , ranging from pricey " wine preservation systems " and a much simpler ( and cheaper ) tool : an old water bottle . We went to the kitchen to test them all . First we drained 10 ounces of red wine from six identical bottles , sealed them , and then refrigerated the bottles for 10 days . At that point , we compared them all with a fresh bottle . Tasters found little difference among the bottles . All but one kept the Merlot perfectly quaffable . Even a small plastic water bottle with an airtight , screw-top lid proved effective . It did have one drawback -- you must fill the plastic bottle completely to eliminate air . Following the taste test , testers limited their criticism to design flaws , most notably for the high-maintenance costly model and the model with the perplexing stopper which offered no written directions . Our winner proved to have a strong seal , was easy to use , and had a bargain price tag . In addition , its trademark click indicated when a vacuum seal has been achieved . " EDIT : Cook 's Illustrated , America 's Test Kitchen and Cook 's Country are now offering all three websites for one price , so I re-subscribed . The winner ( by a large margin ) of the test was this one : <URL>
Version B runs the risk of overheating the pan and damaging the coatings on it . I 've always been told to put oil in the pan before heating for that reason - nothing to do with taste . I 'd seriously doubt you could detect any difference in taste .
It is absolutely worth adding ground pork or veal . I usually use a leaner ground steak and compensate with a fatty ground pork ( shoulder is good ) - fat = flavour . Another tip is to take your time . Many people try and cook bolognese in half an hour , but considering ground meat is usually made with tougher cuts , you end up with tough meat and under-developed flavours . Use plenty of onions and garlic , brown your meat well , use good wine , stock , tomatoes and herbs ( thyme , rosemary and bay ) and gently simmer that bad boy for at least 3 hours . For ultimate flavour , cook it the day before and let the flavours marry overnight .
While almost every fruit and berry contains right yeasts on its peel , according to <URL> article people prefer to make wine from grape due to right acidity , sugar and tannins contents . I also can assume the grape was easier to process manually at almost every stage from collecting to juicing .
end question
start question
How to cook roast potatoes at low temperatures ?
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
It depends on what you mean by " spoil " . The purpose of the fridge is to prevent food from growing pathogenic organisms . There is a clear dependence there : The colder the environment , the slower food gets " spoiled " , or unsafe to eat . But we also want our food to be tasty . And cold temperature does change the texture and taste of some foods , especially fruit and vegetables . If it stays above freezing , some of them still get unpleasant , especially tomatoes and tropical fruit . The worse problem is if the temperature gets below freezing . Then everything turns mushy and unpleasant . And because fridges do not have a very precise temperature control ( due to imprecise sensors but also to the fact that the temperature and humidity varies throughout the space of the fridge ) , a thermostat set too high can lead to temperatures below freezing at least in some parts of the fridge , rendering some vegetables , specifically green salads , practically inedible . On this one , I side with your roommates . I have never seen a fridge which had it necessary to turn the thermostat all the way up . Milk and cooked food does great at temperatures just below 4 degrees C , which for most fridges I 've seen corresponds to a middle setting . Expiry dates are based on this temperature . Cheese actually prefers higher temperatures , like 15 degrees , people just keep it in the fridge because they lack a better space in a typical kitchen . Setting the thermostat on the highest setting gets the fridge around , sometimes even below , the freezing point , and yes , it makes it impossible to keep vegetables in the fridge ( I 've seen them turn bad in the closed vegetable drawer too ) , and wastes lots of energy besides .
They should be fine . We sometimes do it in the morning for dinner and it gives no problem . Just make sure all the potatoes are covered with liquid , or those pieces would discolour .
The second easiest way to get stiff , but still edible mashed potatoes is to bake the potatoes whole , then put them through a ricer . The easiest way is to use potato flakes ... and then you can make them as thick as you want , and even thicken them further if they came out not to your liking initially . You can still mash potatoes that have been baked ( although you 'll probably want to peel them ) , but if you use a wet cooking method , after they 're done cooking , drain them and put them back into the pot ( still warm , but with the heat off ) with the lid off for a minute or two . Once you do n't see any more steam coming off them , check to see if the bottom of the pot is dry . . if it is n't , move the potatoes to another pot ( lift them out , to avoid moving the water with them ) , and drain the water . I 'd personally then dump them back into the now dried pot ... I just find that when you 're limiting the amount of moisture going into the potatoes , making sure they stay warm as you 're mashing helps the process . You 'll still need some liquid , but making sure that the water is out gives you more control of what liquid is added back in ( and you can make sure it 's a flavorful liquid ... dairy , olive oil , chicken stock , etc. )
I would cook the Brie at that same temperature for 30-35 minutes and it should be okay . Alternatively , you could cook the roast fully , remove it from the oven , tent it with foil and then cook the Brie . The meat can rest while the Brie is cooking and being eaten . Prior to slicing the roast , heat up the pan drippings to a sizzling temp and baste to ensure a crispy crust . But if the appetizer course happens to last for 20-30 minutes , then the roast will have been resting for 40-50 minutes and could lose too much internal heat .
With a pork tenderloin : Season the meat , sear all sides in a very hot pan , and then finish in the oven at 350 ° F ( 175 ° C ) degrees until the internal temp . hits 145 ° F ( 63 ° C ) . Then let it sit for 10 minutes , and cut ' er up . If you need it done faster , a higher oven temp will accomplish this , but may compromise quality . But like I said , for a tenderloin , you do n't want too low , or too high . Just watch the internal temperature , that is the key .
I think opening the oven door every 15-20 minutes is causing the oven to loose a lot of heat very frequently , therefore the process becomes even more prolonged . Try these steps : 1 ) Make minimum of 3 slits diagonally . 2 ) Cover the chickens with foil in the first 15-20 minutes of its cooking time to creat and retain steam inside the meat and then uncover and continue with your process . 3 ) Baste less frequently to maintain the oven heat .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
I do n't believe there is a fool-proof way to determine ' ripeness ' without taking a slice out of it . The best you can do is look for certain signs : Ripe melons have a hollow sound when you tap or slap the outside Look for the patch where the melon would have been on the ground ( called the field spot ) . If it 's a yellow colour its probably ripe , if it 's white , it 's probably not . It should feel relatively heavy when lifted Weird areas on the skin are n't necessarily bad . insects may have tried to start eating the fruit because it is ripe , but have only marred the surface . Unfortunately , melons do n't continue to ripen once picked , unlike fruits such as apples , bananas etc. which contain ethylene . As a tip do n't store melons with these kinds of fruit , they may well go ' soggy ' . Extra : <URL> .
The product in your link has been <URL> a process which uses a rotating drum to add a thin candy shell , such as on nuts or seeds . To achieve that effect , you would need either a machine or a <URL> , as illustrated on Pastry Chef Central . <URL>
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
As a metric , if you are concerned about cutting back on sugar you might consider fruits and sugars with a lower glycemic load index ( GI ; higher causes spikes in blood sugar ) as a metric for seeking more ingredients . Sugars with low glycemic load indices are agave nectar ( GI : 15 ) and brown rice syrup ( GI : 25 ) , relative to white sugar and honey . Fruits with low glycemic indices are <URL> Cherries 22 Grapefruit 25 Prunes 29 Apricots , dried 30 Apple 38 Peach , canned in juice 38 Pear , fresh 38 Plum 39 Strawberries 40 Orange , Navel 42 Peach , fresh 42 Pear , canned 43 Grapes 46 For more references and ingredients , <URL> <URL> .
No peeling is needed . A good wash and proper cooking will handle all of your food safety needs .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
I think this question is hard to answer exactly . The easiest way to estimate the duration of the steak in the oven is to cook the steak at ~ 260 ° C and after > 3 minutes each side ( altogether > 6 minutes ) to measure the inner temperature of the steak . 57-60 ° C should be medium rare . Of course this his method requires a thermometer . ( source : <URL> and <URL> )
In my experiment , blue potatoes were substitutable for Yukon Golds . However : Blue potatoes are smaller than Yukon Golds . Therefore , cooking time should be lessened by a between half to a third , particularly when parboiling . Rather than having the subtle creamy flavor of Yukons , Blue potatoes have a distinctly nutty flavor . This flavor may drown out more subtle flavors that are common to recipes calling for Yukon Golds .
Hot Air Popper The cheapest and simplest is to use a ( cheap ) electric hot air popper . The old favorite is the <URL> , but you can use anything as long as the vent holes ( where the hot air comes in ) are on the sides rather than the bottom . I 've roasted a lot of coffee this way . It works , but there are a few downsides . The biggest problems : The circuation is designed for popcorn , which expands a lot more than roasted coffee beans . I 've needed to stir the beans manually in order to get an even roast . They do n't have to be stirred constantly , but you ca n't just drop the beans in and walk away . The capacity is pretty low , especially when you take the circulation into account . I can only roast a half a cup at a time , which is pretty slow . The temperature does n't get quite high enough to really bring the flavors out . The roast is good , but it 's really mellow . [ source : <URL> ] I 've read about modifications you can make that will improve these : changing out resistors , modifying the airflow , and even hooking up an Arduino to control the heat a lot more closely , but it seems like more work than I 've wanted to invest in the process . <URL> My brother 's moved on to this approach , and I 'm soon to follow . The benefit of a heat gun is that the temperature is high enough to get a good roast , and the airflow is high enough that you can roast a few cups of coffee at a time . [ source : <URL> ] More Insanity <URL> , including Weber Kettle conversions . The sky 's the limit , but I 'd start small with the air popper or the heat gun first . I 'd do this outside Some methods have you roasting the coffee in your kitchen - in the oven , on the stove , etc. . I would n't want to do this myself , for two reasons . The beans have thin husks on them , which come off as the beans are roasted . They 're messy , and I would n't want them flying around my kitchen . Also , roasting coffee does n't smell as good as you 'd think it would . Sources of more info : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Conversion rule : how to switch oil and butter ?
Butter and cooking oil are not interchangeable in every recipe . Butter actually has water in it , while oil is a pure lipid . This can cause problems with water-sensitive preparations , for example a choux paste ( where the proper ratio of water to flour is extremely important ) or anything using melted chocolate ( where the water in butter can cause it to seize ) . Butter can also be whipped ; oil definitely can not ( except coconut oil ) . You normally would n't use olive or sunflower oil in , for example , an icing . Butter is a solid at room temperature , while oil is a liquid . When making something that needs to be relatively solid - for example , bread or pie dough or anything requiring a <URL> - you do not want to substitute butter for oil . Shortening is a better substitute . Butter has a much lower smoke point and will scorch at temperatures that oils are often subjected to . You have to be very careful when frying anything in butter , and you 'll need to watch carefully if baking with butter at very high temperatures . You have to understand the recipe you are making if you want to know how to do the conversion ( or if a conversion is even possible ) . If the recipe is fat-dependent , you need to use more butter than oil . If it is water-dependent , you generally should use less butter . If it is both , you likely ca n't do a direct substitution and will have to add or remove something else . And if the recipe relies on the solid/liquid state of the fat , then you simply can not substitute . Muffins just happen to be one of those things where it really does n't matter much . Like all quickbreads , you can vary the amount of fat substantially and all it will do is change the texture of the final dish ; quickbreads with more fat tend to be richer , more moist , and less dense . The Joy of Cooking recipe for waffle batter recommends anywhere from 1/4 cup to 1 cup of butter , which is a pretty wide margin of error ; in recipes like that , you can usually play fast and loose with the substitutions .
Pros : Higher smoking point . Regular butter 's smoking point is 325-375F while clarified butter is around 485F . But it can still smoke and burn ! However the higher smoking point means it 'll be much more applicable in terms of sauteing food without worrying about burning the butter . 100 % fat . Often times its hard to calculate the exact replacements in baking when you want to replace a fat with butter because regular butter is n't 100 % fat . Using regular butter , you would need to factor in how much extra water you are introducing into the recipe . Longer shelf life . Without the water and milk solids , the shelf life of the clarified butter will be much longer . Can even be stored without refrigeration . Cons : Less buttery flavor . The milk solids that you are removing makes up a lot of butter 's flavor . By removing this , you are removing flavor .
Take double cream ( you want a 48 % milk fat , which is hard to get in the U.S. outside of a specialty market ; heavy cream has a 30-40 % milk fat content ) and shake it . Forever . To be more specific , after sealing your double cream in , say , a jam jar , shake it until you hear the sloshing sound of butter forming ( which will take anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour ) ; drain the liquid off and then rinse the butter until the water runs clearly over it . Squeeze your butter ( I use cheese cloth or a linen napkin for this ) to rid it of excess liquid ( excess liquid can lead to rancidity ) , shape it into a block , and wrap it with wax paper .
Do n't put the shrimp etc in the sauce in the first place and cook it separately , that way you do n't have to take it out . Then just top your pasta with it and if say you are cooking meatballs and want a little sauce on them mix a little sauce in with your meatballs and then put them on top . If you want that mixed in with the pasta look then do the same thing I said above and mix the pasta in your individual serving bowls or plates if you are using one after you have dressed your pasta . Your just not going to get an even distribution with random variables , all you can do is pick and count if you want everything evens .
You have basically made tea-flavoured vodka . The <URL> ( for essential oil ) is unrelated to the <URL> for the beverage . Commercially , tea tree oil is produced by <URL> , specifically <URL> . Though possible to obtain leaves and perform the distillation , it 's probably not practical on a small scale outside of the tea tree production regions . For completeness , <URL> is toxic ; you do n't want to eat it . What you used was conventional tea leaves . The tea beverage is made by steeping ( soaking in hot water ) leaves of the <URL> , which have been dried or otherwise prepared ( e.g. , fermented , roasted , etc. ) .
Technique is the key here . If she is using oil expect she is adding the eggs before the oil is hot , she is probably also rushing her attempt to turn/flip/scramble / move them . One of the hardest things to learn when frying eggs is to walk away immediately after adding the eggs to the hot pan . I notice you are in Germany , I do n't know what your access to the USA 's " Food Network " is but this episode of a Alton Brown 's " <URL> " can <URL> . ( pardon the pun , could n't resist ... )
The boiling point of most cooking oils is much higher than their smoke points . The boiling point of olive oil , for example , is around 300 ° C ( 572 ° F ) , which is hotter than the temperature of a pan on a typical residential range/cooktop . With that said , alcohols and esters which make up the flavor and fragrance of the oil will have lower boiling points and will therefore evaporate . That should not significantly alter the nutritional content of the oil . Furthermore , much of the perceived loss of oil is likely due to a combination of absorption of the oil into the items being fried , and also due to splatter . The latter can not be easily quantified due to its connection with the cooking vessel and the technique of the cook .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
Peanut and canola are vegetable oils . Vegetable oil is a catch-all term , it 's not asking for a product labelled " vegetable oil " although you can buy it in the store . Oils labelled vegetable oil are blends and can be any proportion of things like canola ( rapeseed ) , peanut , corn , sunflower , etc. . Just do n't use Olive oil , it is a vegetable oil but it wo n't be good for cakes ! Different vegetable oils will give different properties although most will give you about the same result . Canola is flavorless and relatively light while peanut is a bit richer and , well , peanut-y . The differences in your cake will be subtle , however .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
As you suggest , there are a number of factors , but the best rule of thumb I 've found for pan-frying is to use just enough oil to cover the bottom of the pan by swirling it around . In general , you do n't want puddles ( you 'll get splashed with hot oil ) , but if the pan is n't covered then your food might not get cooked evenly . These days I mostly just eyeball it , and err on the generous side . Using slightly too much is n't likely to hurt your dish - unused oil just wo n't get absorbed - but using too little will result in under-cooked or inconsistently-cooked food and probably a lot of gunk stuck to the bottom of your pan . So if you 're not sure , just add a little more than you think you absolutely need .
Oil definitely changes the crust , and whether or not it 's " better " depends on what you 're going for . Oil in the dough tends to give a softer and thicker crust , while a lean dough tends to give a crisper and thinner crust . Other dough ingredients that tenderize include milk and eggs , and there are plenty of web pages listing " dough enhancers " that give various effects . Again , it all depends on what type of crust and crumb you want .
Butter gives more flavor , but oil provides longevity . Butter is about 20 % water . That water will evaporate during baking and continue to do so even after they are out of the oven causing your cakes to stale quicker . Also the the fat in butter remains solid at room temperature . Once your cake has cooled the fat , now dispersed in your cake solidifies once again and makes for a bit firmer of a crumb . Vegetable oil , however , is pure fat containing no water and remains liquid at room temperature . The moisture provided by oil will not evaporate during cooking and even after the product is cooled to room temp , the liquid fat remain and provide a moist crumb . Since there is no water to evaporate this product will last much longer on the shelf than one made with butter .
Butter and cooking oil are not interchangeable in every recipe . Butter actually has water in it , while oil is a pure lipid . This can cause problems with water-sensitive preparations , for example a choux paste ( where the proper ratio of water to flour is extremely important ) or anything using melted chocolate ( where the water in butter can cause it to seize ) . Butter can also be whipped ; oil definitely can not ( except coconut oil ) . You normally would n't use olive or sunflower oil in , for example , an icing . Butter is a solid at room temperature , while oil is a liquid . When making something that needs to be relatively solid - for example , bread or pie dough or anything requiring a <URL> - you do not want to substitute butter for oil . Shortening is a better substitute . Butter has a much lower smoke point and will scorch at temperatures that oils are often subjected to . You have to be very careful when frying anything in butter , and you 'll need to watch carefully if baking with butter at very high temperatures . You have to understand the recipe you are making if you want to know how to do the conversion ( or if a conversion is even possible ) . If the recipe is fat-dependent , you need to use more butter than oil . If it is water-dependent , you generally should use less butter . If it is both , you likely ca n't do a direct substitution and will have to add or remove something else . And if the recipe relies on the solid/liquid state of the fat , then you simply can not substitute . Muffins just happen to be one of those things where it really does n't matter much . Like all quickbreads , you can vary the amount of fat substantially and all it will do is change the texture of the final dish ; quickbreads with more fat tend to be richer , more moist , and less dense . The Joy of Cooking recipe for waffle batter recommends anywhere from 1/4 cup to 1 cup of butter , which is a pretty wide margin of error ; in recipes like that , you can usually play fast and loose with the substitutions .
Part one : Yes , put oil in first then put on a low/med heat . Generally cast iron should be heated gently , depending on your stove it should probably take about 5 minutes to get to a good temperature . The oil shouldnt evaporate - I 've never experienced this . As to the type of oil - I use various depending on circumstance vegetable or olive usually . Part two : I generally shake the pan gently - when the oil becomes more less viscous ( more runny ) then it is at a good temperature to start cooking . You can also put something like a small piece of onion or bread into the oil - if it starts bubbling and generally cooking then its good to go . Some people use a couple of drops of water to see when it spits but I dont like doing this partly due to the safety factor and also due to the fact itll splatter over the stove top . It depends a little on what you are cooking - if you are looking to brown some meat for example you 'd probably want it a little hotter than if you were just going to make vegetable soup .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
It 's really a matter of preference . Some people like the salty dimension that butter gives along with clotted cream and jam , others think the cream is enough saturated fat to be going on with .
Here are a couple reasons why ( for which I know ) oil is used on salads : Oil caries in fat soluble aromas ( often we use aromatic oils like olive oil , pumpkin seed oil , walnut oil , and so on , that are all very aromatic ) and balances out other components ( like vinegar or lime juice or some strong tasting veggies ) . it adheres to the surface of many leaves/vegetables better than water/vinegar ( cause it breaks into the waxy leaf cuticle ) , so the dressing coating gets evenly distributed over the salad , you can use another thicker substance that clings to the leafs ( like yoghurt ) for this purpose instead . in thicker vinaigrettes/dressings it serves as a thickener , as by mixing with vinegar it builds an emulsion ( like in aioli the oil usually represents the continuous phase of the traditional vinaigrette - water-in-oil emulsion , where many modern vinaigrettes reverse the ratio - oil-in-water emulsion , or use some other fats rather than oil ) . And as already noted , it is not necessary for salads , you can use just lime juice ( like in some thai salads ) , boiled dressing ( that is thickened with starch ) , stock reduction , fruit/vegetable purees , yoghurt dressings or something else that does not require oil ( e.g. I have made slightly pickled japanese salads that only required some vinegar and brine and the main aromas came from the veggies ) . Also , I found this to answer " What 's its effect on vegetables ? " : McGee , on Food &amp; Cooking says : Oil seeps through the waxy leaf cuticle and spreads into the leaf interior , where it displaces air and causes the leaf to darken and its structure to collapse .
<URL> has about 80 % fat , 15 % water and 5 % solids . Depending on where you are located <URL> has 48 % fat ( UK ) , 40 % ( Canada ) and the remaining fraction is obviously water and little solids . Supposed , you need 100g butter in your receipe . This means that the dough will have 80g fat and 15g water ( for a simple calculation I omit the content of the milk solids ) . If you want to substitute butter with double cream , you will need about 165g double cream to have the same fat content in the dough as if you used butter . The problem is the water that you will have in the dough : You will have 83g water in the dough which is 5,5 times more . Since there is very likely little water in a biscuit receipe and it is not possible to adjust the amount of other liquids ( because there are no other liquids ) I doubt that this substitution will work with a biscuit receipe . With a cake receipe you might have more luck ( e.g. leave 83g - 15g = 68g milk out ) . Making a simple buttercream ( as known as American buttercream ) with double cream is not possible because it has almost no liquid . You could try other fillings like <URL> . I am certain that there are plenty <URL> for cake fillings with double cream .
You 're missing an important step here : You need to use cold water immediately after the boiling water in order to halt the cooking process . Boil them for about 1 minute , then drain . ( You can pour boiling water over them , as in the case of almonds - it does n't really matter how you do this . ) Submerge or rinse in cold water , to prevent any further cooking and softening ; Peel them . For the case of almonds , you should not rub them in order to peel . Just pinch the end - they should pop right out of their peels . If you find it taking any more effort than this , stop , do n't waste any more time on peeling , and just blanch them again . If you 've blanched them long enough , peeling will be very easy .
end question
start question
Will spoiled food always make you sick ?
What most people do n't get when it comes to food safety : Spoiled food has a chance of making you sick . When food is visibly spoiled , it has large bacterial colonies growing in it . This means that it has been exposed to conditions which were promoting bacterial growth . Anything which was present on your food will have grown , unless outcompeted by something else . The bacteria which make food gross are rarely the ones which make you sick . But if they had the chance to grow , the real pathogens had a chance to grow too . If they were present , then they grew , and you will consume them , together with whatever waste products their colony produced . Assuming that there were infectious bacteria on your food , you will ingest them . From there on , it depends on a ton of factors whether you will get sick or not - the amount you ate , the acidity of your stomach contents , the state of your immune system . The last does not mean " you 'll only get sick if you 're immunocompromised " - it is like being around a person with the flu , even if your immune system is intact , you can still catch it . There are pathogens which can not infect you , but simply produce toxins . Botulinum is the poster child for these , but I think B. cereus also works through a toxin . In this case , eating the food poisons you . Depending on the type and amount of toxin ingested , as well as the current state of your body again ( mostly liver function ) , the symptoms can run the entire spectrum from " so weak you do n't notice them " to " you die despite being correctly diagnosed and treated " . Then there are a few more exotic possibilities , for example Hep C can not cause liver cancer alone , but it does so ( sometimes ) in the presence of a type of toxin produced by moulds . But this is not actually considered foodborne illness any more , even though it 's possible that eating mouldy food was the trigger . It falls outside of the scope of food safety , as the fault can not be pinned on a specific dish you ate . Nevertheless , it 's one more reason to not eat spoiled food . There is also the possibility that your spoiled food has no pathogens at all , and the spoilage microbes outcompeted all the bad guys , and then of course nothing happens . So , to sum it up : if you eat spoiled food , there are four possible outcomes : You get sick ( right away or with an incubation period of 2-3 days ) and notice it You get sick ( right away or with an incubation period of 2-3 days ) but the symptoms are so weak you do n't even notice it You get a different health problem , soon after eating or even years later , without knowing that it was the spoiled food which caused it Nothing happens . There is no way to predict which one will occur . Actually , these outcomes are possible with any food you eat , including safe food , but eating unsafe food increases the probability of the first outcomes a lot , and eating spoiled food increases it even more .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
I 'm afraid you have gotten something wrong . <URL> and pressure cooking are , as far as food physics is concerned , on the opposite ends of the scale . Pressure cooking allows you to increase the boiling point of water , thus reducing the cooking time . ( Bad idea for a tender steak , btw. , as soon as you exceed a certain temperature , the proteins in the meat change irreversibly and the meat gets tough . ) Sous-vide uses temperatures way below the boiling point , combined with a very extended cooking time . This means you can safely and slowly bring your steak to the desired core temperature without the risk of overcooking and thus toughening the meat . A final sear is just a finishing touch , not technically a necessity for cooking the meat . ( But do n't skip it , it 's for flavour and eye appeal ! ) So no , we ca n't give you a temperature / time chart for steak in a pressure cooker - because the results would be very unsatisfactory .
<URL> is the bark of a tree . It is either sold as rolled strips of bark ( = cinnamon sticks ) or ground . It will not dissolve , neither in water nor in alcohol . What you want to do is basically the same as was done commercially with the vanilla extract you are already using : Extract the taste , then discard the bark itself . Alcohol is a good choice for extracting volatile aromatics . You could try and soak a few cinnamon sticks or a few tablespoons of ground cinnamon in a " neutral " alcohol like vodka or - if you are using it exclusively for your signature drink - use the brandy . This process might take from a few days to a few weeks , so nothing you can do " on the spur of the moment " . Another good carrier for the cinnamon taste would be water . You can simmer a few cinnamon sticks in water , then sieve . This is the same method that is used for mulled wine or mulled cider . To extend the shelf life of the " cinnamon water " , you might considering turning it into simple syrup by boiling it with an equal amount of sugar . Whether you use water or alcohol is a question of personal taste and planned other uses . The shelf life of an alcohol based extract might be longer , but with a sufficiently high sugar content , clean handling and refrigeration the syrup will last long , too . Time is a factor : The syrup can be ready and cooled in an hour or so , whereas the alcohol will take significantly more time . Both methods work for vanilla , too - you could even make a " instant mix " for your drink . Be warned , though : Filtering ground cinnamon from a liquid can be quite a hassle . It tends to clog coffe filters , but is too fine to be held back by a sieve . If you decide to use ground cinnamon because that 's what you have at hand , consider letting it settle at the bottom of your container and carefully decanting the liquid from top . A coffe filter or a cloth-lined sieve can catch stray particles . You should get much better results by using whole or coarsely crushed cinnamon sticks . There has been an ongoing discussion on what kind of cinnamon to use , so a short wrap-up here : Cinnamon is derived from a group of plants , which vary in their properties and compounds . Especially <URL> , a substance also found in tonka bean , woodruff and other plants , has been widely discussed for its toxicity and is regulated in the EU . <URL> has the highest content whereas <URL> contains only traces . From a culinary point , the cheaper cassia , which contains more bark and is usually sold ground or in pieces , is often considered inferior in taste to the true cinnamon , which often comes in sticks . I will not venture a statement here , neither on health nor culinary claims . I am sure every reader of this post is capable of making an informed decision .
There are two major families of North American style donuts : Yeast raised donuts are a very sweet yeast raised dough . ( <URL> from Pioneer Woman blog ) . So-called " cake donuts " which are made from a quickbread like batter very similar to muffin batter , only fried instead of baked . ( <URL> for chocolate cake donuts from Serious Eats . ) If you google , you will find a multitude of donut recipes , in a wide variety of styles and levels of complexity , but almost all of them fall into one of the two groups above . Note : I am not sure that The Simpsons has ever revealed Homer 's preference in donuts .
Torani Peach Syrup ! It 's readily available online or at coffee shop supply outlets . <URL>
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
I think you will have much better luck if you just wait to get an appropriate almond extract . Aside from the difficulty of mixing an oil based flavoring , you 'll run into texture issues if you do get it mixed . Generally an emulsion will be thicker than the component liquids . Further , the flavor probably wo n't be what you want . If you 're creating a water or alcohol based solution , an alcohol based extract will flavor it better . Oil based extracts are generally better for things with a higher fat content for the flavor to disperse into , ie : even if you get the oil emulsified , you wo n't have an almond flavored liquid , you 'll basically have almond flavored droplets suspended in another liquid . If you really want to go ahead , I 'd recommend lecithin and/or a hydrocolloid like guar gum . Both will result in the end product being more viscous though .
Here is how you can find out further if your ginger has gone bad in the fridge : extra moist skin will peel off easily when touched and texture is slimy obvious blackish , dark yellowish skin aroma is no longer the fresh one , but rather a ginger aroma covered by a sharp unpleasant earthy smell/mixed smell . You can notice it 's going/gone bad . You may cut it in half and check the inside still . If it <URL> , then hard-peeling of the skin up to 2-3 mm can still leave you with good piece of ginger . But in order to store this now , you have to slice it , dry and put a zip lock . It can last for about a week . Ginger is a root and there are ways you can store it without even freezing . I have had the luxury to dig a ginger root when needed . However for the recent years we had been storing it either outside , in an indoor soil basket or in the fridge . All are proven methods that many are successfully using . Otherwise I would n't want to blabber ... Keep unpeeled ginger root in an outside rack , e.g. an onion rack , or in a dry place that has proper ventilation . You will see it sprouts and/or dries a bit , but it can last with flesh inside up to a month . You can cut the portion you need and keep it back in this place . This way it does n't get moist or turn into the texture that you encounter usually by storing in the fridge . Make sure the root is not damaged by slugs . Get some soil/sand into a bucket , and bury it in it like how you can store winter veggies . Store it in the fridge by wrapping it with a paper towel or a piece of paper or of thin cloth . Extra moisture will be absorbed by the wrapping .
In comments you note that you last bought a jar of green , pitted olives in brine . Those tend to be much saltier than the versions served as a <URL> in Mediterranean and Middle Eastern restaurants , in part because the restaurant versions are usually whole and thus have less surface contact with the storage brine . They 're also fresher ; restaurants that go through larger quantities of olive can afford to purchase higher-quality olives that have n't been sitting in their brine on a shelf somewhere for months ( or years ) . Olive variety may also be a factor . The picture you 've provided looks closest to me to a <URL> , which have a very mild , almost buttery flavor . This mildness comes from its processing , which is close to the preparation of the black California olives familiar to Americans . They 're washed in a lye solution , which flushes the bitterness of the fresh olive , and are then rinsed to remove any traces of lye ; they can then be brined for a short period of time , but they 're typically much fresher and less salty than other olives . I know a few chefs who like serving them as a starting course specifically because they 're not overwhelmingly salty . As others have suggested , you can seek out similar higher-quality olives in bulk at boutique grocery stores . You 'll have to pay a bit more for the privilege , but the other advantage is that such stores are usually happy to let you try some of the varieties before you buy .
Do n't think of that as dough . This looks like basically making a quiche base to put pizza toppings on . I do n't see any reason to think this recipe wo n't be stable but it wo n't be anything like pizza crust . Still it sounds tasty .
Egg replacements are an option depending on where you live and what products are available , but from what I hear they do n't produce a similar result to eggs . Most egg-free french toast recipes use applesauce mixed with milk or yogurt and a bit of sugar for dipping , and from what I 've heard they work well .
Yes , it 's oxidation , so yes , oil will stop it happening . However , broiling the potatoes straight from the oil will not yield very good results . You are much better off par-boiling them for 3 or 4 minutes , draining them , leaving them to steam and dry out for a few minutes , then coating them in oil and seasoning , and baking them for 30-45 mins . This will yield a nice , crispy-on-the-outside-fluffy-on-the-inside result . So , if you 're boiling them you might as well put them straight in the water you 're going to use to do that .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
Even if it is possible , it is a very , very bad idea as you do n't know what cultures or pathogens are in the already spoiled milk . Fermented dairy products should only be made from fresh milk in good condition -- and in most cases , that milk should be pasteurized while fresh absolutely as soon as possible from the source cows .
You can call the manufacturers and ask them if it is " INDUCTION READY " The packaging &amp; the insert with specifications &amp; instructions should say that . Youu can ask the customer service at Amazon too , may be they will have the answer . But I also located an answer on the internet , which I am including the link : <URL>
I use beer a LOT for my cooking . As the others have said , you need to watch out for the bitterness , which can intensify when you cook and reduce it down . As such , I often cook with different beers than I drink . You can use the IBU ( International Bitterness Unit ) rating for a beer to get an idea of whether your favorite beer will be a problem . Personally , I use Guinness and other dark beers when red wine is called for in a recipe . The flavors are definitely different than the red wine version , but it usually comes out good . I also cook quite a bit with wheat beers and the kind of beers that people describe as " nutty " , like porters . America 's Test Kitchen looked at beers for cooking at one point and a " non-alcoholic " beer actually did really well : O'Doul 's Amber . I agree with them and tend to keep it on hand for cooking , even though I never drink it . It stays mellow and away from the bitter flavors when used for cooking . So , what do I cook with it ? Like most of the others , cooking bratwurst before grilling and cheese fondue , but I also use it for lots of other stuff . I have a baked bean version that uses 4 cans of beer and a couple of shots of whiskey and sits in a crock pot on low for 24 hours . I 've made this with all different kinds of beer and each brings something different to the results . ( <URL> ) I also like using beer in most of my stews . Throw beef chunks , veggies and beer in the crock pot in the morning and it 's a tasty stew when you get home . It works well as the liquid for braising pork or beef . In the winter , I 'll often throw a pork shoulder roast into the crock pot with a bottle of beer and let it slow cook all day . When it 's completely falling apart , I pull it out , shred it and add back as much of the beer as the shredded mess will hold ( which turns out to be far more than you thought ) . What results is a juicy sandwich option , which is really good , topped with mustard or bbq sauce . It comforts me when it 's too cold to deal with slow smoking pork ( I live in MN ) . I 'll also often take some of that shredded " drunk " pork to my baked beans and give the beans some extra dimension . We do a version of " bangers and mash " that I use beer in the gravy/sauce that I like . Beer and self-rising flour make for a really quick quickbread that has an interesting flavor profile . I particularly like using wheat beers like Leinenkugel 's Sunset Wheat , as the wheat flavors work well in a bread . Beers ( and hard ciders , which I actually REALLY like ) work well for marinades . Beyond that , I tend to find myself just tossing a few ounces of it into a lot of other liquids/sauces to add some flavor .
All the cast iron pans I 've got came with instructions that read along the lines of " suitable for serving , but not storage of food " . I 'm not sure what would suffer most though , your pan , or the food , or both , depending on length of time . My guess is that the length of time you actually can store food in a cast iron pan/pot safely somewhat depends on the ingredients used . For example , a tomato sauce would be less good to store in a cast iron pan than fried potatoes . Regarding the temperature , I 'd say it depends on how well insulated your " bag " is . Cast iron distributes temperature very nicely , but that does n't necessarily mean it will cool less quickly than another type of pan ( of same size/thickness ) when taken off the heat . Regarding keeping food warm , I did see insulated pots similar to a thermos flask you 'd use for hot coffee or tea , which are made to store food . They have a big enough opening to be filled , and to be eaten from .
Why the doming happens When you heat leavened dough , two things happen : leavening agent creates bubbles , causing the soft dough to rise . For chemically leavened doughs ( baking powder or baking soda ) , the amount of lift mostly depends on the time the bubble creating reaction goes on and the concentration of non-spent leavening agent . The gluten in the dough sets , building a sturdy 3-d mesh of long , branchey molecules . When the mesh is strong enough , further bubbles can not stretch it more , despite the fact that the leavening reaction is still going on . The setting of the mesh depends mostly on heat and the amount of gluten present in flour . The pattern you are seeing means that your cake gets hotter on the sides than in the middle . The sides get set early and stop rising , while the middle is still soft and continues rising . This happens because the walls of the pan conduct heat to the sides of the cake quicker than heat is conducted inside the cake . You see the phenomenon in an exaggarated form in a muffin , which is usually higher than wide : it is always rounded on top , and often split , because the liquid core from the middle continues to rise after a crust has formed on the surface . How to prevent it Slower heating One good solution could involve a slower , more even heating method . This can be accomplished by using a pan which insulates well . With an insulating pan , the sides will stay liquid longer and rise more . Unfortunately there are no insulated drop-out-bottom pans . Porcelain I have had good results in a porcelain or Pyrex pan . The pan insulates the cake from the bottom and the sides , but not from the top , so you will need to bake it on a lower rack and/or reduce temperature on the upper heater in order to not burn the upper surface . Getting a cake layer out of the pan in one piece can be hard . To deal with this problem , if your batter is not too sticky , the bottom of the pan can be lined with parchment paper . The sides can be lined with a strip of parchment or well lubricated with fat . This approach is a hassle . Insulate a metal pan Perhaps , when combined with other approaches , a metal cake pan with thicker walls will work well enough . You could also try a more DIY solution , like attaching 2-3 layers of a cut-to-fit silicone rolling mat stripes to the outside of the walls of a metal pan . However , it is quite hard to come up with a good attachment method ( glue could release toxic fumes at oven temperatures , if it holds at all ) . So this method should work , but is somewhat hard to apply . Glass and silicone pans There are pans with glass bottoms and silicone walls but I think these would not help because the glass would insulate better than the thin silicone . Preheating Perhaps preheating the detached bottom of a metal pan with the oven could help , but I have n't tried it . Minimize the center A second approach is to minimize the liquid core by making a thin cake . If the middle of the cake is heated quickly enough from above and below , it will set shortly after the walls do , and there will be no unset center to " bloom " . Use a bigger pan . I think that Americans mostly use 9 inch pans , but if you used an original sacher recipe from Austria , it is probably meant for a 26 or a 28 cm pan . Bake the two layers separately Divide the batter into two pans instead of making a single layer and cutting it . This is unorthodox , as you get more crust but it 's better than a hunchbacked sacher . You should use a scale or at least a measuring jug to divide the batter , or you 'll end up with different thicknesses . Also remember to reduce the baking time , as the core will heat up faster . Use a toothpick for probing doneness . Reduce the leavening The third idea is to reduce the amount of leavening agent . The walls will always set before the core and , if there is enough baking powder , the core will still expand a little bit more . If the concentration of baking powder is low you 'll get less bubbles , so less lift . Of course , using too little baking powder will also ruin the cake , so you 'll have to be cautious and experiment a bit before hitting the correct amount . Lower heat The fourth approach is to give the outer portions of the cake more time to rise by baking at lower heat . This is somewhat risky , as it can result in a different texture of the final product , due to the different rate at which water will evaporate from the dough and a longer baking time . Also , if your temperature is too low , you wo n't get a golden crust on a light-coloured dough . This should not be a problem for a frosted cake like the sacher . Less gluten The fifth approach is to use a flour with less gluten . With less gluten you get a mesh which is less dense and needs more time until it gets firm enough to prevent rising . Use cake flour instead of all purpose flour . A bit more fat will also help to inhibit gluten development but too much will change the taste and texture . All methods I described should attribute t
I do n't have any experience with frozen or canned pearl onions ( I assume canned because of the mention of draining ) , but I regularly cut and freeze 10lbs of onions at a time for ease of use later in the week/month ( more info on how/why <URL> ) . With these onions that I freeze myself , caramelization seems to be the same as it would be with fresh onions . I have n't done anything special when caramelizing with them , and there 's been no increase in necessary cooking time or decrease in flavor . If you really wanted to be safe , you could probably drop them in boiling water for a minute or two ( or defrost them on the counter for an hour ) , but with how long it 's going to take to caramelize anyway , I would think this extra step is unnecessary . Also : if you 're going to take the time to caramelize , but you 're short on time during the week after work/school/etc , I recommend making a huge batch and then freezing the resulting caramelized onions as well . Very handy !
end question
start question
How should I cook bacon in an oven ?
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
Most bacon home curing methods you will read use a semi-dry cure where the bacon is covered in a cure mixture then allowed to sit in the resulting brine made of salts , sugars , and exuded liquid from the meat . This is probably due to the fact that most people are more comfortable using their fridge and are also only making a small amount of bacon . The key to what you are looking for is dry curing with drainage . By using a cure mixture which includes nitrates ( traditional ) or nitrites ( modern ) as well as a draining board or table you produce a quickly cured meat product that is stable and can be produced at higher than fridge temperatures . The drawbacks are that the final product will have a greater loss of meat weight due to the loss of water , the product will have more pronounced flavor , and will be saltier but it will also be better preserved . This method is best for meats that will not be cooked but smoked and air-dryed or just air-dryed . It is the best curing method for people living in hot climate or having no refrigeration . In the South , bacon and ham production is something that was traditionally done in the late Autumn to take advantage of the natural cooling to reduce spoilage during the air drying portion of the curing process . The second traditional foodway that allowed bacon to be a staple in the South was the use of <URL> . Method : To guarantee continuous supply of salt and uninterupted curing of the meat , the dry curing is performed in a few stages . The cure ingredients should be thoroughly mixed . The mix should be rubbed into the meat at a ratio of 1:100 , curing salt mixture to meat , by weight . During this initial salting of the meat , it is important to thoroughly cover all surface of the meat piece with the salt mixture , because the high salt level and the cooler temperatures are the only means of protection against the growth of spoilage bacteria . Then the meats would then be packed tightly in a container with larger pieces like hams on the bottom and smaller pieces on the top so that each piece will retain its shape . The meats are packed skin down . Liquid drawn from the meat will accumulate on the bottom of the container and if the holes were made it would drain off . ( If you want to experiment with smaller amounts of meat you can perform this part of the process on a flat tray set at an angle to allow juices to drain away or in a perforated pan . ) The rule of thumb is 2 days of curing for each pound of original meat weight . Flip the meat after 3 days , and then again every 7 days thereafter , making sure that there is salt covering the entire surface . ( For bacon that would be stored for a long time or subject to higher temperatures they would most likely overhaul the cure , replacing the salt mixture 1 or more times during the process . ) After curing is complete , the meat pieces must be rinsed in fresh water to remove any crystalized salt that accumulates on the surface that would prevent sucessful smoke penetration . Blot dry then hang the meats or place on wire mesh to dry overnight . Store meat in a refrigerator or cool root cellar overnight or for up to 2 days . Allowing the bacon to dry uncovered in a cool place the night before you plan to smoke it encourages smoke retention through <URL> formation . At this point you would smoke the bacon and then let it air dry in a cool barn ( during Autumn and Winter ) or a root cellar . Like country hams , the bacon would likely be stored by hanging it in the root cellar in a muslin sack . Bacon produced this way is saltier than modern bacon . If you find it too salty , you can blanch it in simmering water for 30-60 seconds immediately before frying to reduce the salt . <URL>
You can do anything with charcoal . One trick that we used to do when we were camping was to line a cardboard box with foil . Several metal grates or skewers would be stabbed into the box walls and a grate with a few coals hung near the bottom . We would use it to bake bread and pizzas . To control the temperature use more or fewer coals . <URL> As long as you are building things - another option to consider is solar oven . They consist of an insulated container , a transparent window , and a reflector . There are a <URL> to choose from . Some of the more permanent models can get above 350F as long as there is direct sunlight . This model was just one of top results from Google but it is a typical design : <URL>
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
It takes more heat/time to safely cook sausage than it does to fully cook eggs . This would be especially true for omelettes , where the egg is in contact with the hot pan , and the filling only warms indirectly . Add your expectation to start with cold sausage , and cooking the sausage and egg at the same time seems like a really bad idea . ( Yes , you could just cook the whole assembly longer , but you 'd end up with seriously vulcanized eggs . ) Be safe : cook the sausage , and then add the eggs .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Assuming that they are uncooked , you can certainly simmer your brats in beer ( do n't let them boil , that will burst them ) . I 'd try to get a hold of some Red Hook and use that . Simmer them gently until they are almost done , about 15 minutes . Simmering in beer will only intensify the beeriness of the brat . If you like beer , go for it . If you 've got time , do one in advance and see how you like it . You can dilute the beer with water or broth if you find the test brat too strong . Consider adding some whole spices , garlic and onion to the beer and simmering them for 10 minutes before adding the bratwurst . Here 's a <URL> for exactly that . ( That recipe looks outstanding , BTW ) Cover the pan and let the almost cooked bratwurst cool in the beer ( seasoned or not ) . The recipe I linked to says to cool completely , but just 20 minutes or so is plenty . By then any carry-over cooking is done , but the brats would still be warm . Then just grill or brown on the stove just for browning , they will already be cooked through , so it 's just the browning that you 're looking for . Just let your eyes be your guide and do n't go past medium heat ( again , they will burst if your heat is too high ) .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
Possible reasons : Horrible temperature control - this is simply a problem of cheap construction . One could theoretically build an excellent toaster oven with precise temperature control , but why would you ? Low thermal mass - If you get an oven to 400F and open it for long enough to put in food , the result is an oven at very slightly less than 400F , and which will quickly return to 400F . Do that with a toaster oven , and who knows what temperature you 'll get , or how quickly it will get to your desired temperature ( if ever , see # 1 ) . This is not a slam at toaster ovens , this is just due to them being approximately 2 % of the volume of a standard oven . Closeness to elements . It 's easy for toaster ovens interiors to vary by nearly 50F from middle to edge , simply based on distance to elements Now do n't get me wrong , I once made some kickin ' Oysters Rockefeller in a toaster oven , when I thought that they would be the difference between serving an appetizer and being allowed to serve breakfast the next morning ( wink , wink ) . If you know what you 're doing , and watch carefully and continually , a toaster oven can be an excellent source of high ( ish ) direct heat . But they are extremely difficult to control , and extremely unforgiving of errors . I ca n't think of a circumstance where a toaster oven would be my first choice of cooking tool ( and that includes microwave , campfire , plumber 's blowtorch ) .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
It 's possible that it 's designed to conduct less heat from the bottom . Many gas ovens have the flue in the bottom and the heating is only from below in the oven . To make things more even , most electric ovens have an element at the top and one on the bottom . Speaking of bottom , the bottom line is that you should be ok . If you find the bottom of you cake not being done very well , move the form to a lower rack next time .
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
Try freezing the oreos first and then cut with a sharp knife . Let the oreos warm to room temperature again . They will not lose any texture or crispiness . Update : In the name of science , I froze some oreos and tested the outcome . Freezing the oreos made the cutting much more ... achievable . A room temperature oreo just wants to crumble in too many places , but a frozen one holds together better .
Sauteing in butter is not really all that different from sauteing in any other oil : it just takes an awareness of the <URL> , and avoiding it . Consider investing in an IR thermometer that can tell you exactly the temperature of the pan ( with or without the oil ) so you can heat the pan to exactly the right point . For butter , that is about 350 ° F , which is not all that much lower than other oils - including EVOO , for example . One suggestion is to do as the French do ( who sauté in butter all the time ! ) and use <URL> , which removes the solids from the butter . It 's easy to do , and significantly raises the smoke point ( as those solids start smoking much earlier than the oil does ) . Clarified butter has a smoke point of 450 ° F , as high as peanut oil . You do n't even have to go to the extreme that the linked recipe does in clarifying ; simply spooning out the bits you can easily see will often be sufficient . You can clarify butter and then refrigerate or freeze it , if you want to do it in large batches . Second , use a pan that retains heat well - a heavier pan . That will allow you to cook at a lower temperature effectively . A thinner pan will have more hot spots , which lead to smoke sooner . Third , make sure you 're cooking the right amount of food in the right order . Do n't crowd the pan too much . I 've sauteed mushrooms and similar with no problem in butter ; steaming should n't be an issue if you have the right amount of food in the pan at once . If you overload it , though , you do end up cooking too slowly and unevenly , and steaming or just mushing your food . Fourth , salt is your friend when it comes to moisture . If you 're cooking something very moist , salt it before cooking it ( but after chopping it ) , give it a bit of time ( 5-10 minutes at least ) . This will let the salt remove some of the moisture , particularly from the outside . Then , wipe off the excess salt and the excess moisture with a cloth or paper towel before sauteing . ( Do n't give it a long time as eventually the moisture goes back in , and your food gets too salty . ) This works well for me with things like eggplant or zucchini - remove some moisture , then saute - as well as the thicker mushrooms ( like portobello or white mushrooms ) .
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
end question
start question
Is it true cooked food can not be left in room temperature for longer than 4 hours ?
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
You do get some reflection of microwaves off a glass or plastic cover ( <URL> ) Do n't use metal lids . Neither glass nor Plexiglass plastic absorb much of the beam . The question then becomes : Does reflection off a lid slow heating more than retaining heat in an enclosed vessel speeds it ? Anecdotal , but experience tells me that using a plate over a bowl or a casserole dish cover routinely gives hotter , more uniformly heated food . Probably true for plastic wrap too , but I do n't use that in a microwave since I had a piece of it melt on me .
While not an exact match , <URL> indicates up to 2 days for an apple pie at room temperature ; one would expect the baked apple to have similar properties . So yes , I would expect eating your baked apple the next day should be fine . I would not hold them much longer than that , though , as the cooking helps bring out moisture which will foster growth of molds over time .
Microwaving meat to defrost it tends to start cooking it at the edges and generally make it go weird and rubbery ( scientific terms I know ) . So yes , it is better to defrost ' naturally ' in the fridge , in terms of quality . Freezing damages meat by bursting the cell walls as their water expands . This affects the texture more than the flavour . The damage is done when freezing , not cooking from frozen , so the latter should not effect taste . The main issue with cooking from frozen is that if the item is big ( say , a roasting joint ) , the outside can be overdone by the time the middle gets up to a safe temperature .
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
This is my personal experience . It takes sometime to reach the boiling temperature ( again ) when you add colder water . As a result , vegetables get cooked for a longer period than anticipated . This makes some vegetables becoming mushy and not tasting as good as otherwise . ( Example : Egg Plant ) Therefore , I make sure to add the right amount of water in the first place .
Generally , yes , you can leave a brisket in a marinade for 48 hours or even longer . The exception would be a marinade that is very highly acidic , but not that 's not likely to be a problem with a commercial marinade .
Honey is very stable for a number of reasons . The main ones though are the low amount of water ( most honey is under 18 % water ) and the high amount of sugar ( which is a preservative ) . Both of these things keep things like mold and bacteria from being able to grow . Over a long period of time ( and if left unsealed ) the honey could absorb moisture and then ferment ( the sugar would turn to alcohol ) but if sealed then your honey should be fine for a long time . This PDF from the National Honey board <URL> says that a shelf life of 2 years is often stated . On Chowhound I saw a discussion that said that in the UK the " best by " dates are usually 4 years out so I 'm guessing that those dates have far more to do with decisions by the respective governments ( i.e. laws that state a maximum best by date no matter what the food is ) then the actual shelf life of honey . As the honey in your cupboard , if it 's only a few months or a year old as long as it 's been in a sealed container then it most likely should be fine .
Time for a safety lesson . When you are dealing with food products that can spoil , what you are concerned about is the <URL> , which is the temperature range at which bacteria multiplies fastest . While specific numbers will vary , a decent rule of thumb is 4-60 degrees Celsius . What that means is any food prone to spoilage must be kept out of that temperature range , and if it is going to be within that temperature range , it must be for less than four hours , aggregated across the product 's lifetime . What this also means is that when you are chilling hot food you need to do so as fast as possible , in order to minimize the time spent in the Danger Zone . Foods that are dangerous are the ones you would expect : anything which requires refrigeration . Potatoes , for example , are perfectly safe to keep at room temperature when raw , but must be refrigerated once cooked . ( Perhaps a poor example , as potatoes fare better when kept below room temp but above fridge temp , but you catch my drift I hope ) . So we 're talking about raw meats , most dairy ( very hard cheeses may be kept at room temp with no ill effects other than possible softening ) , many vegetables and fruits , that sort of thing . Eggs and butter can be considered a somewhat special case ; eggs can be kept at room temp with few problems ( and in fact eggs used to be kept right out on kitchen counters , in the shell of course , not after they have been cracked ) , while butter can generally be kept at room temperature for a few days before the fats will start to become rancid ( anecdata : we never kept butter in the fridge when I was a kid , except for butter my mother needed for baking , where the temperature is a matter of physics in the recipe , and not health . Never had any problems . ) Harder vegetables -- potatoes , carrots , parsnips -- can generally be kept at room temp without problems , as can many fruits -- apples , oranges ( all thick-rind citrus really ) , bananas , and so on . So . According to the food safety experts , you absolutely should not leave even cooked poultry out overnight , as any bacterial contamination will be severe after a few hours . In real terms , unless you are very young/old or immunocompromised in some way ( e.g. leukemia , chemotherapy , HIV/AIDS , etc ) you 're probably going to be okay . I am a professional chef , and at home I 'm pretty lackadaisical about expiry dates , how long most things have been sitting out , etc. . In the context of work , however , I am extremely anal about rapid chilling/heating and keeping food safe , and I will always advise other people to be cautious with their food ; what I choose to do with my own body is my concern . When In Doubt , Throw It Out is always good advice ; there 's a reason it was stencilled across the inside of the walk-in refrigerator door at one restaurant I worked at . You should also bear in mind that much of the time bacterial contamination is not detectable by the eye , nose , or tongue until it has become severe . Even when contamination is not detectable with our senses , serious illness can occur ( see , for example , recent outbreaks of E. coli , listeria , and salmonella , none of which can be detected with eyes/nose/tongue ) . So the ' smell test , ' while in use by almost everyone who cooks food , is really not all that reliable as a gauge for spoilage ; taste and smell can definitively say that a given product has gone bad , but it can not say that a given product is definitively okay to eat . ( As a side note on food safety , if cheese has gone mouldy , do n't trim off the mouldy bits . Just throw it out . While much of the time any such mould will be entirely harmless , it 's not worth taking the chance over , especially given that if mold has bloomed on the surface of the cheese , spores will be present on the entire surface , with penetration into the cheese itself . Seriously , just toss it , and re-examine how you store your cheese and/or how much you 're buying at a time ) . Even easier to remember : keep hot food hot ( above 60C ) and cold food cold ( below 4C ) . Make things hot as fast as possible , and cold as fast as possible . ( Note that I am a cooking professional , not a medical professional , and nothing here should be construed as medical advice . Always err on the side of caution . )
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
In the food safety section of Modernist Cuisine ( 1-138 ) it says that all wild rabbit must be cooked through : Wild rabbit must be cooked well done to kill any tularemia bacteria ; for rare or medium cooked rabbit dishes , chefs can substitute farm-raised rabbits that have been kept segregated from their wild relatives by trustworthy breeders . The section on meat ( 3-96 ) recommends bringing rabbit loin to an internal temperature of 59C ( 138F ) and going by the section I 've just quoted this is obviously only for farmed meat . The recommendation for the legs is to cook sous vide for 1 hour @ 66C ( 151F ) which again obviously refers to farmed because that 's definitely not long enough to tenderise wild rabbit meat . I would really recommend cooking the leg meat and loin separately as I find that the loin dries out long before the legs are cooked through . The legs are much nicer braised too .
First off , there 's not a lot in the ingredients you list that is likely to pose a hazard anyway . ( It is possible for flour to be contaminated with bacteria , and if the bacterial count is high enough , it could pose a risk in raw dough . ) However , pasteurization to safe levels at 160F does n't take more than a few seconds in most foods , and it 's likely the interior of your loaf was above 130F ( where bacteria will gradually start dying off ) for quite some time . I 'd definitely consider it safe to eat right after baking , though it may not be particularly pleasant . However , underdone bread sometimes is prone to earlier spoilage , since it generally has a higher moisture content that might promote some mold , bacterial , and yeast growth after baking . The chances of it becoming actually hazardous without noticeably spoiling are probably rather low , but it 's possible , particularly if the moisture content is high enough . It 's much more likely that the bread would just spoil normally through the appearance of surface molds , etc. , though . If you wanted to be extra cautious , you could store leftover bread in the freezer or fridge .
Nature has designed some food-stuff to last a long time . Grains ( wheat , rice , corn , oats , ... ) , which are the seeds of grasses , will last the longest , often more than one year . Seeds need a long shelf-life if the plant is going to make it to the next growing season . Next come roots ( onions , potatoes , ... ) , which need to last from one year to the next . Nuts , in the cooking sense , are seeds surrounded by a shell , will also last several years if they are dry . So almonds , peanuts , pine nuts will keep , but not coconuts or chestnuts . Other food types are going to need some help , which basically means getting rid of the water in the food-stuff ( lentils , beans , peas , chick peas , soybean , ... ) or slowing down bacterial growth ( through dehydration , freezing , irradiation , canning , cooling , ... ) I have cooked grains and dried beans and lentils from my pantry that were over a year old . They all made good meals .
According to KitchenAid 's food processor users ' manual : Never process any food that is so hard or firmly frozen that it can not be pierced with the tip of a sharp knife . Hard food can cause damage to the blade or motor . If a piece of hard food , such as carrot , becomes wedged or stuck on the blade , stop the processor and remove the blade . Carefully remove food from the blade . <URL> That being said , I 've also used my food processor for frozen fruit , hard nuts , etc. . My blades have never worn out in 18 years of use ( though the bowl has been replaced once due to cracking ) .
To my experience , the cutting " trajectory " ( not sure if that 's the right vocab ) of a dull knife is less consistent and less controllable than a sharpened one , and is more subject to be influenced by the texture of the material being cut , especially cutting something hard , thick and fiber-ish such as carrot or big melon .
It lasts indefinitely . The date you are seeing should be viewed as a " best before " date . Over time the soda can become flat and the flavor will degrade , but it will still be drinkable as long as the can was not compromised . Based on looking at some Coke I recently purchased , it appears that the date is likely 1 year in the future from when it was canned . The cans in my fridge have a date of ; I bought these in late July . Plastic bottles . on the other hand , have a much shorter " best before " window . This is because the plastic bottle leaks the carbonation much quicker than an aluminum can does . I do n't have any bottles on hand , but if I recall correctly they typically have a date only 3 months out .
end question
start question
Can I bake bread in pieces ?
Smaller breads are usually called rolls or sometimes buns . There are also a lot of names for specific kinds of rolls , beyond obvious things like " sourdough rolls " . You can certainly take an existing recipe and just form in to more , smaller pieces , and reducing baking time . They 'll look funny if you just cut it into pieces , though ; you should reform them into something rounder . It 's hard to say exactly how much less baking time it 'll take , since it depends on exactly how small you make them . It might be anywhere from roughly a quarter to half the original baking time , and especially for smaller rolls with shorter baking times , you 'd probably want to increase the temperature so they 'll still brown by the time they 're done . Very small ones will be on the low end of the time range , and need more increase in temperature ; larger ones will take longer and not need as much temperature increase . Given all that , you might want to just look for a recipe for rolls that suits you . Simpler , less chance of messing up !
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
Make the bread all the way through . You can even let the first rise happen . Drop your yeast to about half . Oil a bowl , drop in the dough , spin once to get the ball of dough covered with the oil and then put plastic wrap over the bowl , or a damp cloth ... and plastic wrap . Put the bowl in the refrigerator . The refrigerator slows down the yeast without killing it , which also increases the flavor of the bread ( over night cool low yeast methods for bread are considered the " right " way to make bread ) . In the morning , pull out the bread , press out any large bubbles , roll it around and let it come to life again . I usually punch it down one more time and then let it rise in the pan or on a sheet depending on what kind of bread I am making , then bake as normal . In your case , because you 're doing a stuffed loaf , assuming there is a rise before the stuffing , THAT is the point where you will start the morning . Everything before the pre-stuff rise , the refrigerator IS the pre-stuff rise , pull it out , let it warm , punch it down , stuff , put in the pan , let rise , bake .
Using refrigerated biscuits for <URL> is actually just a convenient shortcut - if you do n't have pre-prepared biscuit dough at hand , you can simply make your own sweet yeast dough from scratch , that 's the classic ( pre-Pillsbury-can ) recipe . Either find a recipe that uses sweet yeast dough from scratch or substitute your favourite sweet yeast dough . ( The Wikipedia page linked above has a link to a recipe , for example . )
My bread machine recipe books come with conversion instructions to make the bread traditionally . Here is a link to a site that will do the same : <URL> Best of luck with your bread making !
Some ( many ) bread machines do n't mix well , so you might not get a good mixture whatever you do . But it 's worth trying . If you are making the bread immediately after adding the ingredients , it probably does n't matter much how you add the ingredients ; just put the yeast and the sugar and such in the centre . If you use the timer , it is important that the yeast stay dry up until the moment the machine starts mixing . What gave me the best result is this : add water , sugar , salt , egg , fat ; mix this by moving the pan around until the ingredients are mostly dissolved ( or stir with a wooden implement ) ; then put all the flour in a heap in the middle of the pan ; make a hollow in the centre of this heap , put the yeast in this hollow ; then set the timer . Another tip : if you put the pan on a kitchen scale while adding ingredients , and you press " tare " on the scale after each ingredient , it 's much easier to weigh everything . This only applies if you use ingredients by weight , of course . Lastly , experimenting with amounts that differ from the recipe may greatly improve your bread . It depends on the machine . I also found that the " French " setting on the machine ( = longer baking ) gave the best crust .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread . If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads wo n't raise much . You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens . The more temperature you can give it the better . Another possible factor may be the yeast . Are you waiting enough ? Are you using enough ? Like temperature , more yeast and longer fermentation times ca n't go wrong .
It seems the main thing you 're trying to do is avoid any work in the morning before bake . As suggested in comments , the easiest way to do that is to get a mechanical bread-maker . Since you say you 're inexperienced in bread-making , you can dump everything in the night before , program it with a time , and voila -- fresh bread in the morning . ( I do n't tend to like the loaf quality that comes out of most home bread-makers , though ; but if you find one that makes good bread , this is the best solution . ) That said , if you actually want to make the bread yourself , you can do what you want . It 's just going to require a lot of work the evening before . Many recipes can be adapted to do this , though it tends to work best with sourdough loaves . Basically , the technique works like this : Mix dough Knead First fermentation ( 1-3 hours , depending on yeast quantity and bread type ) Shape tightly , preferably with a pre-shaping and bench rest ( another 15 minutes ) Second fermentation , generally takes place entirely in fridge Place in fridge overnight Remove and bake immediately Jeffrey Hamelman suggests this for a number of sourdough recipes in his book Bread : A Baker 's Book of Techniques and Recipes . He also notes that it 's not necessary to let the dough come to room temperature before baking : assuming it has risen enough , you can remove it directly from the fridge and bake with little consequence . ( Also , just to reply to one notion in comments -- it is possible to bake bread starting from a cold oven . Many people prefer to do it that way , though the results tend to be a little less consistent and oven spring is generally a little less . If you do so , it might be easier to bake in a pot . But it would be possible to get up in the morning , turn your oven on , throw the bread in immediately , and have it baked maybe 30-45 minutes later , depending on the size of the loaf . For those who do n't believe me , <URL> who did a comparison of cold oven start vs. preheated and found little difference . ) My experience trying shaping before overnight retarding long ago is that it can work well for sourdough ( see method # 2 <URL> for more details ) , since the yeast tends to rise much more slowly in the fridge . The danger with normal baker 's yeast is that most recipes use too much yeast to make this method work -- what will happen is that your bread wo n't cool fast enough in the fridge , then the dough will overproof and collapse a bit in the oven , often with poor crust formation . Normally , when professional bakers retard pre-shaped dough in the fridge , they do so for only a couple hours , which tends to add flavor . For detailed instructions with illustrations and a recipe showing this , see <URL> . Basically , what you want to do is a similar thing to that recipe , but with less yeast , so you can refrigerate overnight . Unfortunately , that will tend to make your bulk rise go slower , which means a longer wait in the evening between steps . For more information and recipes online , I 'd try instead searching for something like " retarding after shaping , " which is the kind of recipe you 're looking for . You just need to find one that allows retarding for 8 hours or more , rather than just a couple hours . The other option is obtain sourdough cultures and try those recipes . Usually with them the pace of the yeast rise is appropriate for an overnight final proof in the fridge . Still , the results will be a little more finicky ( i.e. , harder to get a " perfect " loaf every time ) than using a more standard method . Also , I just noticed you mentioned rolls in your question . Those would be a lot easier than trying to do this with an entire loaf , and it 's pretty standard to refrigerate overnight before baking . If the recipe is one that depends on removing from the oven for a while before baking , then just delay putting the dough in the fridge for maybe 1/3 to 1/2 of that time ( varies by recipe ) the night before . Then you should be able to bake straight from the fridge to the oven the next morning . Again , it may take a bit of experimentation with a specific recipe to get this perfect .
The pie crust is ready to use . There is nothing in a graham cracker crust that requires baking , although a little toasting gives some color and deeper flavor . If you are putting in a filling that will not be baked ( a refrigerator pie ) , you might choose to " blind bake " ( bake without filling ) the crust for a few minutes to give it more color and flavor , but it is not required . If your filling will require baking , there is little reason to bake the crust separately .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
I would recommend borrowing from the principles found in this post , which details how to " fry " chicken in a kettle grill : <URL> Two key takeaways here : 1 ) high heat , and 2 ) all ( or nearly all ) your food 's surface area is exposed to heated air . You 'll just replace " kettle " with " oven , " and put something under the rack on which you 're cooking your food to catch the stuff that drips away from it , and you should be good to go . It may require some experimentation to find the right mix of time and temperature for the food item you wish to cook , but it should n't take more than a few attempts to get it right , if not the first one .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
In comments , how you described what you 're looking for is exactly what they are . It 's dried fruit , usually candied or packed in syrup . Commonly seen in baked goods are dried candied cherries , candied pineapple , candied citron , currants and raisins . This <URL> will show you a lot of examples of fruit used like that . This <URL> will show you the actual products the recipes ask for .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
The okara has some unextracted protein and sugar but it also has a large quantity of fiber . That fiber will prevent the protein from properly coagulating . If you leave in all the okara you get soybean porridge . I imagine you could leave in a portion of the okara and you would get a fragile but hearty tofu . The problem with this is that , with most tofu recipes , the beans are not cooked long enough for the okara to be palatable . With all that sugar it would also give rise to much more flatulence . You do n't have to throw the okara out . There are many recipes that make use of the okara for its fiber . It is pretty straight forward to use it in baked goods . Toasting it gives it more interesting flavor . If you want to look into tofu-like products that use the entire bean you could research tempeh . The whole beans are fermented so you get a meaty product with all the nutrition of the whole soy bean .
I would n't bake them in , for a start , as I would n't be confident of what the bootlaces would do in the oven . Thinking about it , a possible way of going about it is to ' thread ' the bootlaces through the cake before you ice it . Cut the cake in half ( vertically ) , get a big needle like a darning needle or something similar , and ( carefully ) thread a few laces through , cutting them off flush with the surface , then stick the cake back together with icing or jam and pipe on the outer icing . The tricky thing will be getting them to follow curvy paths . The other thing you could do is use said needle ( or perhaps a chopstick ) to poke little tunnels through the cake , then pipe red jam into them . This would perhaps give a nicer result - it might be a bit odd to be eating a slice of cake and then to suddenly be chewing a rubbery bootlace .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
end question
start question
How many people would a bushel of average sized blue crabs feed ?
There 's no fixed number , as you have too many other variables : How big are the people eating ? ( athletes are going to eat more than kids or people on diets ) What are they being served with ? ( If it 's just a table filled w / crabs , they 're going to eat more than if you have other side dishes available ) How experienced are the people with eating crabs ? ( Some folks are so slow at picking crabs they 'll give up in annoyance . Others are so skilled they 'll wolf them down quickly . In high school , some folks I know from the Eastern Shore would pick the backfin out then trash the rest , ignoring the flake and the claws ) How are they being served ? ( very spicy will slow most people down . And you have to remind the crab newbies to wash their hands before using the bathroom ) What temperature is it ? ( on really hot days , people eat less ) How long is it going to be ? ( if you 're hanging out all day , people might get a second wind and go for more crabs ) I 'm going to guess that if they 're ' mixed ' , they 're probably mediums , so maybe 7 or 8 dozen per bushell . 3 or 4 crabs per person is about typical , adjusting mostly based on the the factors above . ( large , physically active folks or experienced pickers might eat 6 or more ... inexperienced folks often give up by the second one ... but you 'll want more if you 're doing it as an all-day thing , or if it 's almost all crabs and hardly any sides ) I guess just make sure you have plenty of drinks and some sides for those that give up on the crabs or if you run out . ... And do n't just go and pitch the shells afterwards ... you can generally get quite a bit more meat going them a second look through ( the folks who skipped claws if nothing else ) , and picking whatever 's left over . Freeze that meat , then rinse the legs ( most people do n't crack and suck them ) to get most of the seasoning off , crack them , and simmer them to make a crab stock for bisque . If you have a really large pot , go for the rest of the shells , too ... strain , boil it down to concentrate it , then freeze . You 'd be tempted to add extra stuff to the stock besides the shells , but as we do n't know how much seasoning 's still on the crabs , you really need to wait 'til it 's done , then add other stuff when using it to make the final dish .
All of the sources I read say the same thing ... what makes them different is that they 're fried twice . From <URL> : Frites are the supercharged cousin to paltry American-style fries : made from soft Belgian potatoes called bintjes , they 're thick-cut and -- this is key -- double-fried ( in the olden days , in molten horse or ox fat , though modern options range from lard to vegetable oil ) . Served in a paper cone with mayo and ketchup , properly executed frites -- the ones that have been fried , dried , then carefully fried again -- are an addictive riot of textures : soft and fluffy on the inside , surrounded by a crunchy , greaseless crust , dipped in luxuriously flavorful sauces . From <URL> : There is no fancy skill involved in making these crispy fries , but there is a trick . The potatoes are fried twice . The first time cooks them through and makes them tender . The second time , which can be done hours later just before serving , turns them golden brown and deliciously crisp . From a site <URL> : So high time time for a ( simple ) definition of what makes fries Belgian Fries : freshly cut , irregularly shaped cooked ( fried ) twice fluffy on the inside , crispy on the outside a distinct potato taste at least 10 mm thick preferably served in a paper cone Some sites mention the importance of certain fats or types of potato but the one similarity for all sites is the fact that they 're double fried .
In this <URL> video he uses a " knob " of butter . It appears to be about 2 Tbsp . I do n't think it 's intended to be a specific term . You 'd never see " knob " used for baking , where exact amounts matter . When cooking , recipes tend to be a general guideline rather than a strict set of instructions .
I believe the unspecified context of this question is cooking in an oven or microwave . No matter what your cooking method , the heat is introduced at the outside of the food : Microwaves only penetrate a short distance ; the rest of the cooking through to the center is by conduction ( or convection , if the food is liquid ) Conduction/convection in an oven only interact with the surface of the food Radiant heat ( infrared essentially ) , one of the main cooking modes in an oven , again only affects the surface By creating a ring shape , if it is practical , you create more surface for the heating modality to interact with the food . This is the reason for an angel food cake pan or bundt pan having a tube at the center -- it allows more surface area to be involved in the cooking process . Also , with the metal pan , the metal has a higher conductivity of heat than does air . This is why parts of the cake in contact with the pan ( or a non-insulated metal cookie sheet , or whatever ) generally brown more than the parts exposed to the air . However , in practice except for things cooked in tube pans , I would n't really worry about this affect . If you can stir occasionally , it becomes close to moot . Note that in pan frying or sauteing or or griddling or stir frying ( depending on the term used in context ) , the main surface area that is relevant is the bottom of the food , that which is contact with the pan . A ring does n't help much here , compared to spreading the food out . I looked at the first part of that thread . It does not seem to be a hot bed of science and knowledge of cookery .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
Typically , dutch ovens and other heavy , especially cast iron pots would be buried to allow a slow dissipation of the heat . This will allow the contents to continue to cook at a very low and slow pace , usually to allow the release and melding of more flavor . In the case of chili for instance , this could allow more of a dried chili essence to reconstitute and become more uniform throughout the pot . The insulation of the ground will slow the cooling and allow this process to extend much longer than air would . Additionally , packing soil around the pot would tend to act as a barrier to hold in more of the aromatics than in air , combined with the slower cooling to again allow more absorption and a more even distribution for a more mellow taste to the dish . Especially pots such as dutch ovens , this process is often done without additional heat , or in ground warmed by a fire , or with added coals or hot rocks depending on how long you want this process to continue and if you want more actual cooking to occur . Fully duplicating this process inside would be difficult , but a somewhat close approximation would be to heat up an oven . Put in your covered pot , preferably tightly covered . Close the oven then turn it off or down to a very low setting , and keep it closed for a few hours and you should get much of the same effect . I would call this process marrying or melding the flavor rather than saving it .
Was the deep fryer below anything ? Cabinet , Vent Hood ? Those areas could be probably be cleaned to help . This happens to me in my house when I fry up bacon . The only solution is fresh air and ventilation . I open a couple of windows , get a nice cross-breeze and it should dissipate over a couple of hours .
Philadelphia Brand ingredients : Pasteurized Milk and Cream , Whey Protein Concentrate , Salt , Carob Bean Gum , Xanthan Gum , Cheese Culture . Organic Valley Cream Cheese ( do n't know which brand you used ) ingredients : Organic Pasteurized Milk and Organic Cream , Cheese Culture , Salt , Organic Locust Bean Gum . Nancys Organic Cream Cheese ingredients : Organic cream , Organic nonfat dry milk , L. acidophilus , B. bifidum and 4 strains of Lactic cultures , salt . < -- no gum in this one The fat specs for all 3 brands are about the same . I 'd say it 's any combination of : the gums used did the manufacturer use milk and cream processed through ultra high temperature ( UHT ) pasteurization what is the moisture content ( hard to determine from a label ) maybe human error by the Baker ??
These days , mostly software . In the good/bad old days , by actually burning it ( or having a laboratory do that for them ) . Software is much simpler ( unless you are writing it , though it is probably more tedious than complex . ) Input ingredients and quantities , out comes calories . For a restaurant that assumes that the recipe used for calculation matches the actual recipe used . Here is a USDA database , for instance . Tedious to use , but gives the idea . <URL>
If you can get it , sherry is usually a good bet but since you ca n't , I 've used just regular white wine before as a substitute when you 're cooking a dish but you just need to be a little less liberal as you might be with rice wine as I find the flavour tends to be a little stronger . Another alternative is Sake , but I 'm assuming that if you ca n't get rice wine , you 'll struggle to find Sake .
Yup , tomatoes can most definitely be a bit grainy . It 's not a hard graininess like sand , but a softer graininess . The best comparisons that come to mind are hydrated but uncooked cornmeal or slightly wet breadcrumbs . Instead of being juicy and smooth ( whether firm or soft ) , you 'll notice a bit of small texture . It 'll probably also be less juicy , and the flavor may not be as fresh and full as you 'd like . If you 've never had one , awesome - you 've had good tomatoes ! It 's also a common texture in some varieties of apples , especially when not too fresh . It 's especially noticeable there ; instead of a crisp crunch as you bite through it 'll feel a little crumbly . They 'd be all right for things where you 're going to cook them thoroughly so you wo n't notice the texture , like spaghetti sauce , though again the flavor may suffer as well . For anything remotely fresh , they 're still edible , just noticeably not as good .
Peanut butter is just ground roasted peanuts essentially . The american style peanut butter tends to be sweetened , as well as having extra oil and salt . But they are only slight flavour/texture enhancers ( not that I think sugar enhances it , UK peanut butter is unsweetened usually ) . Satay sauces are essentially just peanut butter sauces , roast some peanuts , grind them , then add to some lightly fried shallots and garlic , with chilli , soy sauce , lemon juice , salt , sugar and if you want it authentic probably some nam pla ( fish sauce ) , or blachan ( shrimp paste ) , all of the above to taste . Thin with water and reduce to the consistency you desire .
The easiest way I have found to cook whole artichokes is to steam them in the microwave . Cut off the top of the bud and then trim off any beaten up tough outer leaves . Place in a large glass bowl with about 1/2 cup of water in the bottom . Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high for about 4-5 minutes . Check and add more time if necessary . You can then eat the leaves and save the base and heart for another dish or eat the whole thing .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
There 's no fixed number , as you have too many other variables : How big are the people eating ? ( athletes are going to eat more than kids or people on diets ) What are they being served with ? ( If it 's just a table filled w / crabs , they 're going to eat more than if you have other side dishes available ) How experienced are the people with eating crabs ? ( Some folks are so slow at picking crabs they 'll give up in annoyance . Others are so skilled they 'll wolf them down quickly . In high school , some folks I know from the Eastern Shore would pick the backfin out then trash the rest , ignoring the flake and the claws ) How are they being served ? ( very spicy will slow most people down . And you have to remind the crab newbies to wash their hands before using the bathroom ) What temperature is it ? ( on really hot days , people eat less ) How long is it going to be ? ( if you 're hanging out all day , people might get a second wind and go for more crabs ) I 'm going to guess that if they 're ' mixed ' , they 're probably mediums , so maybe 7 or 8 dozen per bushell . 3 or 4 crabs per person is about typical , adjusting mostly based on the the factors above . ( large , physically active folks or experienced pickers might eat 6 or more ... inexperienced folks often give up by the second one ... but you 'll want more if you 're doing it as an all-day thing , or if it 's almost all crabs and hardly any sides ) I guess just make sure you have plenty of drinks and some sides for those that give up on the crabs or if you run out . ... And do n't just go and pitch the shells afterwards ... you can generally get quite a bit more meat going them a second look through ( the folks who skipped claws if nothing else ) , and picking whatever 's left over . Freeze that meat , then rinse the legs ( most people do n't crack and suck them ) to get most of the seasoning off , crack them , and simmer them to make a crab stock for bisque . If you have a really large pot , go for the rest of the shells , too ... strain , boil it down to concentrate it , then freeze . You 'd be tempted to add extra stuff to the stock besides the shells , but as we do n't know how much seasoning 's still on the crabs , you really need to wait 'til it 's done , then add other stuff when using it to make the final dish .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
All of those ingredients should be fine . The only thing you really have to worry about is shelf life , so make sure to buy fresh ingredients and check your expiration dates , especially on the baking powder and baking soda and the almonds . I would just tell them to use it within a year ( or the earliest expiration date ) . Oh yeah , and do n't put the baking powder and baking soda next to the brown sugar . There is n't a lot of water in it , but it might be enough to cause issue .
From <URL> : When you clean the fish , remove the skin and any dark-colored flesh . This part of the fish is especially strong tasting and somewhat oily . Check out these fish recipes to learn to cook bluefish . Also see <URL> for advices on improving the flavor ( e.g. soak it in milk ) .
Cauliflower fritters . Mix some egg , ice-cold water and flour , then stir in the other ingredients . Gently put about one or two tablespoons at a time into a deep-fryer using two spoons . We do something similar to make " kaki-age " , which is a mix of vegetables prepared using a batter similar to tempura , and generally includes onion . You can probably also get away with doing this in a frying pan with just the bottom covered in oil if you keep the oil temperature stable enough . For what it 's worth , I prefer to make mashed potatoes by ricing them then adding butter , milk , scallions and cream then letting them roast for a while in an enameled cast-iron pot . I 've never noticed an unpleasantly raw taste with the scallions in this way . Perhaps a similar approach would work for the cauliflower .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
end question
start question
Should I delay adding barley when making vegetable barley soup ?
It depends on how long the soup cooks for and whether you soak the barley or not . If the soup is going to cook for a couple of hours , you can just add unsoaked barley with everything else . Or you can soak the barley and add it towards the end of cooking . If the soup is going to be cooked relatively quickly , you should soak the barley and add it with everything else . Soaked barley ( soaked for a couple of hours ) needs to be cooked for about 30 minutes . It also depends on how soft you like the barley to be . Some people like it to near-disintegrate , some prefer it a little al dente .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
Yes , it is probably true to a small degree , but irrelevant . In any deep fried food , the rapid expansion of water as it vaporizes pushes the oil away from the surface of the food , preventing it from immediately penetrating during the entire frying period . While alcohol may not have the same 1700 ( IIRC ) ratio of expansion in volume that water does when it goes from a liquid to a vapor , it will still offer some of the same effect . The thing is , most oil that penetrates deep fried foods does so after the food is removed from the oil bath , as it cools . Alcohol in the dough would not prevent this .
I 've been making rum-based vanilla extract successfully at home for years . Here are my recommendations . Your basic ingredients are 80 proof rum , sugar and vanilla beans . At the recommended proportions , the rum and sugar are plenty effective preservatives . You can use either light or dark rum , but it should be a good " call " 80 proof rum and not a bargain bottom shelf rum . I most often use Ron Rico . If you use a golden rum , your extract will have a warmer taste suitable for spicy treats such as pumpkin pie or spice cookies . If you use a silver rum , your vanilla will have a purer taste suitable for whipped cream or custard sauces . I get rum that is bottled in glass , because I think plastic imparts an off flavor . Your basic recipe will use a fifth less about a 1/2 cup of rum , four vanilla beans and 1/2 cup of organic sugar . We 'll go through that first , and then talk about variations . Place your vanilla beans on a clean , flat cutting surface . Using a small , sharp knife , cut them first in 1/2 crosswise at the middle . Then take each 1/2 bean and insert the knife tip just 1/2 to an inch below the uncut end and carefully slice lengthwise to the send . Repeat this process gently and carefully on each piece unti each piece has four lengthwise quarters attached at the uncut end . Some recipes will tell you to scrape some or all of the paste out of the beans , but this is not necessary . The simply split beans will infuse the rum just fine . Pour out about a cup of rum from your fifth and set aside . Put your sliced vanilla beans into the rum . Use a funnel to add 1/2 cup of organic sugar . Use the reserved rum you set aside to top the bottle back up . Recap the bottle and give it about 20 shakes to encourage the sugar to dissolve . Set aside in a dark cabinet or pantry . Take it out and give it a few shakes every week or so . Your vanilla will be usable but not fully extracted in about two months . It will continue to strengthen in flavor out to about 6 months of age . Once you are satisfied with your extract , you can decant some and bottle it up in smaller bottles . It 's a very popular gift for bakers . Once you have tried vanilla extract made this way , you will never want to go back to store-bought . The difference is indescribable . You can vary the type of rum you use , silver or gold , and you can vary the sugar . I mostly stick with light organic sugar , because I think the taste is better . I like the combination of dark rum and brown organic sugar very well . You can also increase the sugar up to about 2/3 cup in a fifth bottle , but I would n't go above that . Sugar gives the extract more body and mellows the flavor . Check out Wikipedia to learn more about the various kinds of vanilla beans available . I use the organic ones from my food coop , but different kinds can be ordered online or found at specialty food stores . A number of cooking blogs have instructions on making extracts or tinctures of other spices . There is no reason not to create combination flavors .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
An espresso machine usually needs to push water at somewhere between 8 and 15 bar pressure , which is quite a lot . And since it is the high-pressure components that are key to how they work , it is the quality and durability of these that tends to set the price point . The quality of the pump varies from a device intended to be used for two or three cups once a week , all the way to professional machines designed to produce thousand of cups a day , month after month . This is why domestic machines are usually quite clear that they are for domestic use only : they simply can not cope with the duty cycle of any more than that . Many domestic espresso machines will turn themselves off if they are used to make too many cups in one session - quite simply , they overheat . It sounds like one you bought is one intended for occasional use . My advice is to visit a couple of retailers that have staff dedicated to selling espresso machines . They will , of course , try to sell you " their " brand , but they will also recognise when someone needs a domestic unit designed for daily use as opposed to one just for special occasions . As a bonus , you generally get what you pay for with espresso machines . The more expensive domestic ones usually really do last much longer .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
It is perfectly safe to eat the peel in and of itself . You will need to make sure that you wash it properly , as it may be dirty . But beyond that , it 's simply a matter of taste . A lot of people do n't like the flavor / texture of the peel and so remove it . From a <URL> : Kiwi fruit skin is definitely edible , and there 's a lot of different theories about eating it . Kiwi fruit skin contains high levels of flavonoids , insoluble fiber and antioxidants : these substances all have a beneficial effect on your body 's metabolic functions ( flavonoids and antioxidants ) and on your digestive system and cardiovascular apparatus ( insoluble fiber ) . Common sense , however , should be practiced in this respect : while raw kiwi fruit skin contains these beneficial substances , it also tends to contain more than 99,95 % of of the pesticides in that particular fruit ( if they have been used ) , which largely outweighs the benefits from flavonoids and antioxidants .
Add the water incrementally . It 's probably enough to add just a bit , stir , then add the rest , but you can break it up a bit more if that does n't work . A clump of powder or a lump of paste wo n't dissolve easily into water , but it 's easy enough to add a little water to it and thin it out . So the idea is to work your way up from powder to paste to thinner paste to liquid . This is a good idea for all kinds of things where you start with a powder or a thick paste , not just instant soup .
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
We have a convection oven and almost always use it . I ca n't remember the last time we did n't use convection . Our model automatically decreases the temperature , so if you set it for 300 , then it will heat to 275 . Not sure if that is a magic 25 degree number , but it seems to work . Almost all recipes cook time wise as they would with a non-convection oven . Our also has a single and multi-rack mode , and it circulates the air differently in that case . We have NEVER had any problems with the food drying out more with the air circulation as they say that is a common negative . I am sure the effectiveness varies oven to oven , but in our case , we always use it ( except for broiling of course ) .
I 'd say it is a " matter of taste , " literally , because what comes out will change depending on how you process the vegetables . For example , despite the common use of carrots in stock , I feel like many chefs do n't actually want a real " carroty " flavor in stock . Quartering or roughly chopping a carrot is enough to give them plenty of " carrot notes " in their optimum flavor . Thus , my theory is that chefs often follow their particular chopping pattern to produce the balance of flavor that they want . If you chop things more finely , you may actually alter that balance . Anyhow , if your goal is maximum flavor extraction , then you 'll need to chop your carrot into finer pieces . ( You may then find that you need less carrot in your mix of vegetables . ) Other vegetables like onions do n't necessarily need fine chopping , since they already exist in relatively thin layers to allow circulation . If you quarter an onion , the liquid will already be able to infiltrate -- if you want even greater circulation , just break up those quarters into layers as you throw the onion in . And things like herbs , etc. do n't generally need to be chopped at all : just throw in whole sprigs , and they 'll provide most of their flavor after simmering even for a brief time . I would note that simmering time is also an issue here . Most chefs do n't cook vegetable stock for longer than an hour or so , since there 's no benefit ( as there is with meat stocks , where it can take hours for collagen to break down , etc. ) . In fact , by simmering too long , you can actually break down some of the more subtle flavor components , lose them to evaporation , or bury them in the more generic " overcooked " vegetable flavors . Thus , some recommend adding finely-textured herbs only briefly toward the end . ( That 's also the reason why a small amount of fresh herbs are often added as a garnish to a finished dish ; the flavor is greater and more noticeable than if they were cooked in for a long time . ) I 'm therefore somewhat skeptical of the method that used a blender before cooking , since that would cause a very fast breakdown of the vegetables and potentially unbalance the flavors . ( Some people do puree the vegetables after simmering and add them back for a more hearty or thicker broth/soup . ) In general , I 'd plan on simmering vegetable stock until the various vegetables are " done " ( soft ) and then going a bit longer , tasting it periodically until the flavor is rich and full . Chopping finer will release more flavor faster , but there is a limit because things will rapidly get " overcooked . " At that point you 'll be releasing less of the " bright " and " fresh " vegetable flavors that you get early on ; these flavors may start to break down or get lost , and eventually you 'll have more of a generic " vegetable mush " flavor .
The major difference between butter and oil is that butter is only 80 % oil , with the rest being milk solids and water ( <URL> ) . This means that using oil you will lose some of the water content that your cake should have , possibly resulting in a dryer cake . On the plus side , cakes made with oil tend to dry out slower than those made with butter . The other possible different , but one that is unlikely with a mix I 'd think , is that it depends on the method of mixing in your fat . If the butter is to be whipped or creamed while softened this creates a different texture than one you could get with oil or melted butter . Whipped butter or especially butter creamed with sugar provides a network of air bubbles that act as a raising agent during cooking , and the result is a pound cake like crumb . If your recipe calls for melted butter , though , this is not a concern - the result is more like a traditional muffin or quick bread crumb . Finally , a vegetable oil has a fairly neutral taste . Usually when a vegetable oil is called for , this is desirable . Butter on the other hand has a more interesting flavor . Your cake may be a bit bland without it .
Great french toast starts with the bread . You 're looking for two things : thick slices , and staleness . Why stale ? Stale bread has enough firmness to stand up to the custard . If you do n't have stale bread available , you can set it out the night before in a simple wire rack . At least 8 hours should be enough to stale it up nicely . They will be rather firm to the touch . The ideal finished product is crispy on the outside and creamy in the middle . This might be what you mean by mushy , but mushy in my mind is kind of negative . The key to accomplishing this is to let your bread soak in the custard only 30 seconds per side , but then move it to a rack to sit for another 2 minutes further . This extra set time allows the custard to penetrate deep inside the bread , and be distributed much more evenly . The final trick to getting a nice crispy crust , is to cook it twice . First in the pan/griddle as you normally would , but then 5 minutes in a 375 F oven on a rack . This brief oven stint crisps up the exterior nicely . I highly suggest watching Alton Brown 's <URL> episode . That 's where I learned the oven trick , and his recipe has n't done me wrong since . Regarding <URL> , I 've never had it , but based on the Wikipedia description it sure sounds like a good candidate . Just make sure you slice and stale it overnight .
Use a vegetable peeler to peel of large strips of rind . That way , it 'll be easier to remove once you 're done steeping . If you do n't mind it being mildly alcoholic , steep them in vodka and then strain the vodka into the lemonade .
Wash your hands thoroughly and frequently . See <URL> . Do not at any point cough into your hands . Coughing into a sleeve is considered less likely to transmit germs . To really prevent breathing on your food and potentially transmitting germs that way , you could consider wearing a mask . Personally I 'd consider the last step optional ( and the other two not ) .
You could always blend before you strain . I find that when making soup of all kinds that a few minutes with my immersion blender does wonders for the final product . Not only does it puree all the solids into much smaller chunks , but it also makes sure that all the liquid is a homogeneous whole . After blending , I also tend to strain just to get out anything that I might have missed . I use a fine mesh strainer and a spatula to force the liquid through quickly . I also own an old flour sifter that I have used quite a few times instead of the strainer , but it does n't offer any real benefits over the other .
If you 're using plain cocoa powder , which does n't really dissolve , I would mix it with the coffee powder before adding to the water , and as long as the coffee powder will tolerate it , add it all to the water before heating . Mixing the two powders should help avoid clumps in the cocoa powder , and adding it early will give it time to release flavor into the water . You 'll still have to stir a bit to keep it from settling out , though ! If you 're using instant cocoa mix , which is sweetened and processed to make it dissolve evenly , you can just add it at the end . There 's no benefit from adding it earlier , and it 'll be easiest to stir and dissolve it in already hot water .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
In casseroles , pot pies and the like , condensed soup is usually added without additional water . It serves as a thickening agent and will pick up sufficient water from whatever vegetables etc. you also have in the recipe . That 's not to say you never add water along w the soup , it 's just that the desired end result is more often some sort of solid casserole-like dish than merely a souped up soup . If you 've uncooked , dry , noodles in there too , you will have to add some liquid beyond the condensed soup , so as to allow them to hydrate properly .
end question
start question
How can I cook the perfect potato for a potato salad ?
First , potato is not the same as potato . Conventionally , potato salad is always made with waxy potatoes , because mealy potatoes ' outer layers disintegrate when tossed with the sauce , much like making risotto . They are also less creamy in texture . But there is also the school of using mealy potatoes , because they absorb more seasoning , and also because some people like the soft texture . If you decide to go with mealy , use an acid in the cooking water ( depending on your seasoning , choose vinegar , citric acid , or the neutral tasting cream of tartar ) . This will firm the potatoes . It is n't necessary for waxy potatoes . Second , the cooking time depends strongly on size . You must cut them very evenly . Else you will have both undercooked and overcooked potatoes in the pot at any given moment ( up to the time when you only have overcooked ones ) . Smaller pieces are easier to work with . Third , you want to heat them as gently as possible . Start them in cold water , and cook them at a simmer , not at a boil . There is no way to predict when the potatoes will be ready . Even if you cut them to the same size every time , the sort and the age of the potatoes will result in varying cooking times . When the time is near , you must look after them and try them constantly . Take out a piece , cut it in half , cool it in cold water , and chomp on the exact center . If it is n't crunchy , stop the cooking immediately and remove the water . The time window in which they are just right is quite short . Season them while they are hot , they will then absorb the sauce instead of just swimming in it the way cold potatoes do .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
100 ° C for 7 hours sounds just about perfect . The meat will be meltingly tender by then . In fact I think you could go even lower on the temperature if you like , say 80 ° C or 90 ° C. Of course , if you want to be absolutely sure , check with the thermometer , but unless you know that your oven is unreliable or you happen to be in possession of the largest pig shoulder in the world I am 100 % sure it will be more than done in 7 hours on 100 ° C. Good luck !
In short , kind of , but only with the proper accessories/equipment . You 'll never match a grill or griddle but you can get surprisingly close . As was mentioned in other answers , what you 're going to lose most is the sear . I was given a Corningware Microwave Browning Dish a while back and found that it actually works pretty well when you 're stuck with only a microwave . They were apparently popular when microwaves were new and exciting , but people did n't know how to use them well and they faded into oblivion . I 've seen them on sale on eBay so you might be able to find a good price there if you 're going to be stuck in the hostel for a while . The basic idea is , there 's a special kind of microwave-safe metal inside the base of the casserole . You heat this with nothing on it for 3 minutes to get it nice and hot . When you drop the patty on , it immediately sizzles . You use the microwave function to heat the inside , while the hot surface sears the outside . Although you 're likely not going to get a perfect burger , you do get a real nice Maillard reaction on the outside of both sides ( assuming you flip halfway ) and if you play with the cooking time and power ( to reduce that rubbery texture from overcooking ) , you can get something that 's ( in my opinion ) a good 75 % - quality burger compared to a griddle or grill . I actually burned pork chops on it once , that 's how hot the surface gets . As a bonus , similar to a nice Boos block , there is a gutter around the outside and the plate is slightly concave , so the juices run off into the reservoir and the burger wo n't sit in fat during the cooking . After reading the other answers ( ElendilTheTall 's specifically ) , I would think if you combined the steaming method to cook the burgers , with the microwave browning dish to sear , you could probably get a really good result . If the burgers were fully cooked via steaming you could probably heat the dish and sear the burgers without even turning the microwave on ( except to heat the casserole initially ) . I believe Alton Brown did an episode where he talked about a specific type of brick that you can find at most hardware stores which is microwave-safe for the same searing purpose , but I ca n't find that info right now .
It seems that the secret to re-heating rice is to use a little bit of liquid during the re-heating process . <URL> suggests adding 2 tbsp . of liquid per cup of cooked rice , and about 1 minute on high for each cup in a microwave ( 5 minutes flat for stovetop re-heating ) . Another thing it hints at , though does n't outright state , is that cooked rice should be stored in an airtight container separate from the food it is meant to go with - this is likely where I went wrong , and why my rice is always soggy and unpalatable . It also suggests that 2 hours is the maximum allowable time for cooked rice to be kept at room temperature , and that it can stay stored in the refrigerator between 4-6 days , or up to 6 months if frozen under ideal conditions .
You can , but the surface-to-mass ratio means that the outer layers will overcook well before the inside is cooked , so unless you 're interested in that texture , your two main options are : Steam them ( add some liquid , then put a lid on it ) Cut them smaller . ( halve or quarter before you saute ) I tend to halve smaller ones , and quarter larger ones , cutting through the stem each time so they do n't fall completely apart while cooking ( after trimming a little off the stem if it 's showing signs of drying out ) . Then saute 'til the outside has browned a little bit , and hit with salt and whatever spices ( or bacon ... dice up some bacon and render the fat while you cut up the sprouts , then use the fat for cooking the sprouts )
You could put them in a pan of boiling water for 3 or 4 minutes ( not so to they 're cooked through ) before putting them in the oven . The potato on the outside of the wedges will soften and cook a little bit which will help the outsides crisp up a little . Make sure you allow them to drain completely before you put them in the oven .
I 've never heard of anyone trying this . I think its very unlikely though . Those gas deflectors are actually specially designed to pull in the appropriate amount of atmospheric air for a proper flame . This is why the flame you see is so blue and has very little orange . I 'd look into seeing if there is some way to get a replacement deflector that is better suited for wok cooking . You could also do what Alton Brown does and use the bottom half of a turkey deep fryer , outside preferably , and not over any pipes or electrical wiring or gravel .
Surprisingly , the answer seems to be a qualified yes , however the texture is not the same . The dried gnocchi turned out to be much better if fried after boiling ; see below . Here are the results of my experiment : I dried a small amount of the fresh Gnocchi by placing them in a 150 degree ( Farenheit ) oven for about an hour , then turning off the oven and leaving them in all day . It is very dry here , so that did the trick . I boiled the dried gnocchi after several days of storage . They took about ten times longer to boil than their fresh counterparts . Even after they were fully cooked , they were not as soft as the fresh gnocchi , and they never regained their original size or shape . Overall , they were denser , firmer , and less sticky . Not desirable traits necessarily , but they were quite edible . I decided to pan-fry a small batch in about a tablespoon of oil , and these turned out wonderfully ! I have pan-fried gnocchi before , and it tends to be hard to keep them intact and keep them from sticking . The previously dried gnocchi , however , did not stick and held up to vigorous frying . The result were gnocchi with a crispy exterior and soft ( if somewhat dense ) interior . The crispy outside and flavor reminded me of samosas . These were n't just edible , they were great . I plan to dry about half of my next batch and use the dried gnocchi exclusively for frying .
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
You can certainly use a Dutch oven ( DO ) for cooking sauce . A good DO is probably one of the most versatile pieces of equipment in the kitchen . It cooks , it bakes , it even fries ! It will certainly make sauce and the high sides will even help prevent splatters . I would n't worry about the lack of a long handle , the weight of the DO will keep it stable . If anything , the weight is its primary fault . A good DO is also a heavy DO . It can be a bit daunting to lug out every time . Since you mentioned Le Creuset , I 'm assuming you 're talking about enameled cast iron - not ' normal ' cast iron . And hence have n't addressed that you certain sauces and such may not be well suited to ' normal ' cast iron , but enameled is fine all around . Can you use a enameled Dutch oven for sauces ? Absolutely . Should you ? There are less weighty options , but at the end of the day it will make the same sauce .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
<URL> Papyri from Ancient Egypt in 1555 BC classified coriander , fennel , juniper , cumin , garlic and thyme as health promoting spices ( 3 ) . Records from that time also note that laborers who constructed the Great Pyramid of Cheops consumed onion and garlic as a means to promote health . The <URL> appears to give history/origing for a large selection of spices .
There are a few questions on this site about French fries , I 'd suggest you take a look . But I think the best answer is : baked sticks of potato do not French fries make . French fries are deep fried . You can never get the same results in air , although air fryers do come close . A normal oven bakes , not fries . Here are some sites that experiment with fries and crispiness <URL> <URL> .
Lecithin is indeed a good emulsifier , available from egg whites or soy . Both egg whites and soy lecithin are available in powdered form and should be shelf-stable and usable with normal kitchen tools ( scales and measuring spoons ) . Another powdered option is gum arabic ( also called acacia gum ) , which comes from acacia resin . It 's used a lot in commercial food products and candies . These are all readily available online , but you may also find them in some grocery stores ( in the US , the Bob 's Mill brand offers a lot of things like this ) or restaurant supply stores ( but the quantities might be more than you want ) or you may find some gums among the spices at larger Indian markets , or certainly in a large spice market like Kalustyan 's in NYC . I know you asked for neutral , but I figured I 'd also mention that garlic can be used as an emulsifier but it is n't quite as stable ( it may separate some over time in the fridge ) and , of course , it is NOT neutral . But the flavor profile of garlic might fit in some recipes where mustard does n't . ( There is a <URL> that demonstrates this well -- it is pretty much just garlic , salt , lemon and oil , and whips up into something thick and creamy . )
I 'm not sure if it 's a typo but the recipe surprises me , traditionally ( as far as a 100ish year old dish can be " traditional " ) vichyssoise would have chicken stock or seasoned milk as the liquid base . For that quantity of potato and leek I would estimate 0.6 - > 0.75 L of liquid so it is possible it is a typo .
Ingredients : Potato starch , tapioca flour , leavening ( calcium lactate [ non-dairy ] , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , cellulose gum , carbohydrate gum Ener G Egg Replacer has always worked well for me . I keep it in the house for times when I do n't have eggs on hand and want to bake something . There is also recipes like <URL> for vegan pancakes .
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
end question
start question
Can unsweetened almond milk be used for the same things as regular milk ?
Almond Milk for cow 's milk was a really common substitution in medieval recipes . A lot of medieval recipes used almond milk - almonds being a lot easier to store without spoiling and find reliably when a medieval cook needed some . Almond milk was a staple of the medieval kitchen . It was used in a wide variety of dishes as a substitute for milk or cream , especially on " fish days " , when the church placed restrictions on what foods could be eaten ( the most prominent of which were the days during lent ) . from <URL> In the Middle Ages , animal milk was , of course , not refrigerated , and fresh milk did not stay fresh for long . Most cooks simply did not use much milk as the short shelf-life of the product made it a difficult ingredient to depend upon ... Rather than animal milk , Medieval cooks turned to something they could depend upon , and that was the milky liquid produced by grinding almonds or walnuts . This liquid , high in natural fats , could be prepared fresh whenever needed in whatever quantities . It also could be made well ahead of time and stored with no danger of degeneration . Because of its high fat content , it , like animal milk , could be churned into butter , and because it was not animal milk , it could be used and consumed during Church designated meatless days . from <URL> Some dishes can not be made with this substitution , those that depend on the physical and chemical properties of milk - like cheese , or whipped cream . It would take a lot of processing and additives to make the almond milk mimic those products . However , both milks contain fats , proteins , and sugars in solution , and so behave similarly enough in the chemistry of cooking to make them easy substitutes . I will admit that while I cited medievalcookery.com and godecookery.com because the quotes were convenient , I posted my comment originally drawing from David Freedman and Elizabeth Cook 's " How to Milk an Almond , Stuff and Egg , and Armor a Turnip : A thousand years of recipes " which is very well researched and contains a number of period citations and recipes .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
No , it 's not . White vinegar ( also known as distilled vinegar ) is made of acetic acid diluted in distilled water . Its flavor is simple -- its just sour . Typical concentrations range from 5 -- 7 % acetic acid . White wine vinegar is made by allowing white wine to turn to vinegar . It has a much more complex flavor profile . It is also frequently less sour ( acidic ) than distilled white vinegar .
Technically , this is not precisely buttermilk , but it 's pretty close in both composition and usage . The term " <URL> " can actually refer to a wide range of fermented milk varieties . Traditionally , buttermilk was produced by allowing natural bacteria present in cream to ferment some of the sugar <URL> into <URL> . This made churning butter from the cream easier and also helped protect the cream from spoiling . After the butter was churned and removed , the liquid that remained would be your buttermilk ( today referred to as " traditional " ) . Nowadays , mass-produced " cultured " buttermilk is produced by taking pasteurized low-fat milk and introducing bacterial cultures to produce lactic acid in a similar fashion . That 's similar to how <URL> is produced , but yogurt is generally allowed to ferment for longer until the milk proteins set and thicken . There are many varieties of yogurt with slightly different cultures from each other and from cultured buttermilk , and the beginning fat content of the milk can differ too . So , technically these are distinct , but if you use milk to thin out yogurt , you 're producing a beverage that ( like buttermilk ) contains lactic acid , producing that distinctive tangy flavor , and which ( like buttermilk ) is somewhat thicker than milk . Your identified ratio is the same as <URL> that I found while searching around , so you can definitely use this to substitute . There are also <URL> available . <URL> also covers similar information , in addition to being a colorful exploration of related terms .
Like Bob said , surely boiling some noodles is way less of a bother than breaking out the pasta machine ? If you really want to make fresh pasta , I do n't see any reason you could n't use it for lasagna without boiling it - the reason one boils dry noodles is because it 's hard to get them to soften in the time it takes to bake the lasagna . But just like when cooking fresh noodles , you need to be careful not to overcook it , so make sure all your fillings are fully cooked before you start layering . It also should be perfectly fine to not cut the noodles into strips - the reason dried noodles come that way is for easier handling . It is possible to make lasagna using dried lasagna noodles without boiling them first , but you need to add more water and bake it longer . A search for " no-boil lasagna " will turn up scores of recipes .
Milk is mostly water . Instant coffee will dissolve just fine in milk or even cream . Of course , flavour-wise it 's going to be more like a weak latte than coffee . That 's essentially what a latte is - coffee and milk .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
Based on your edit to your question , and with some additional thought , I 'm going to answer this differently . Soured milk differs from what you called " spoiled " milk in only one way - what wild bacteria reproduced faster : bacteria with tasty waste products or bacteria with disgusting waste products . With that in mind the major potential problems with using this milk to make yogurt are : If the wild bacteria crowd out the yogurt culture If the yogurt culture is not able to work because the milk is too sour . In making homemade yogurt neither of these should be a problem . In making all yogurt - including yogurt made from raw milk in commercial settings - the milk is heated to 190F for some time to denature albumin proteins and to partially sterilize the milk so that the yogurt cultures will have the upper hand . This means that all yogurt has been pasteurized and the fact that the milk was purchased raw is a red herring . This will make problem # 1 above unlikely . Not heating the milk will leave you with @rumtscho 's answer - you can only guess what you might get by incubating it . As for problem # 2 . Milk proteins begin to coagulate at a Ph of about 4.6 . The target Ph for yogurt is usually 4.5 . When making yogurt , Streptococcus thermophilus brings the milk down to about 5.0 and Lactobacillus Acidophilus takes over and brings it down to 4.5 . Lactobacillus Acidophilus is active well below this Ph. Therefore , if your milk is not already thickened then it is , by definition , not too acidic for the yogurt culture to work . Unfortunately , as the commenter from your first link indicated , heat combined with acid will cause the milk to prematurely denature . If you milk is too sour already then heating it to 190F may cause the protein to precipitate out and you would have paneer ( sort of ) . I looked but was unable to find at what Ph milk proteins will denature at 190F . <URL> <URL> If you can strictly verify the handling of your raw milk to have confidence that it has not been contaminated with harmful bacteria , and if the milk has only slightly soured so that it can be heated without breaking , you should be able to successfully make yogurt out of it knowing that the texture might vary from that of your starter .
To make sweetened condensed milk : The best make-your-own version is to mix 1 cup of evaporated milk with 1-1/4 cups of sugar in a saucepan , heat and stir until the sugar is completely dissolved , and let cool . If you do n't have evaporated milk on hand either , you can make your own by slowly simmering any quantity of milk in a pan until it reduced by 60 % , and then adding the sugar . Source : <URL> Another recipe that sounds like a lot more work and uses powdered milk : <URL>
You may convert evaporated milk into condensed milk by adding sugar to it . For each cup of evaporated milk <URL> . Pour the mixture in a pan , stir while heating on the stovetop until the sugar completely dissolves . Let cool . The heating of evaporated milk is similar to the treatment condensed milk undergoes , so the evaporated milk with sugar should be a perfect replacement .
No , these are completely different products . As you indicate , so called " <URL> lt " is a mixture of sodium chloride ( regular salt ) and sodium nitrate ( or sodium nitrite ) for curing meats , tinted pink to distinguish it from regular table salt . it allows relatively accurate small batch curing , as in home sausage making . <URL> is a naturally mined rock salt , whose impurities can tint it a variety of colors , including pinkish , from iron oxide . Hawaiian pink salt is another naturally harvested salt whose red clay impurities tint it a pink color .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
There are 2 ways of looking at it ; how long it will be safe to eat ( ie from food poisoning ) and how long it will still be appetizing and taste alright ( ie not gone rancid ) . As you 've taken it from the tin it wo n't get that tinny flavour but as time goes on may absorb other flavours from the fridge so make sure you keep it away from anything that is strongly smelling . Also as around 87 % of the coconut milk is fats it will soon go rancid , so keep that in mind , ( you 'll know when it does by giving it a quick sniff ) . In terms of food safety , if it 's UHT which most are , then it could probably last for a long time ( as long as UHT milk ) so about 2 1/2 weeks I 'd say . Otherwise if it 's not UHT then not as long . I would say about the same time as fresh milk so around a week as it contains sugars and fats and so is a very compelling proposition for any bacteria . Other sites discussing this : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Hope this helps !
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
Well , it makes the eggs go further for one ... But it also produces softer , creamier results . You 're moving toward something like a custard or quiche . If you like your eggs very stiff , this is probably a bad idea .
I do n't know about weather , but non-factory produced milk changes with the season because of the feed , which <URL> . Over the winter , the cows are fed hay or corn , while over the summer , they 're pastured , so get fresh grass . In the Netherlands , there are designations such as ' <URL> ' ( literally , ' grass chesse ' ) , which is made from the milk when the cows are first released to pasture in the spring . I know there is a designation for winter vs. summer cheese as well , but it 's not coming back to me .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
While adding milk may change the flavor slightly , such a small amount is used that it is not likely to be an extreme loss of flavor . Some people add a small amount of water . With a small amount , flavor loss should not be noticeable . And since most people scramble their eggs with butter or some other type of oil , there is a measure of fat included . ( Ref . to below quote . ) <URL> explains the effect and differences : Some recipes for scrambled eggs call for water or milk . Does this do anything for the eggs ? When eggs are scrambled , the mechanism that transforms the liquidy beaten eggs into a fluffy mound on the plate is protein coagulation -- the process by which , when exposed to heat , proteins unfold and then tangle up with one another and set , forming a latticed gel . The more tender the scrambled eggs , the more loosely the proteins have coagulated . Adding water to scrambled eggs dilutes the proteins a little , thereby raising the temperature at which they coagulate and making it harder to overcook the scramble . Water also increases the amount of steam , which puffs up the eggs , producing fluffy scrambled eggs . As for milk , it contains water but also fat , which coats the protein molecules so that they ca n't bind with one another as tightly . The key to scrambled eggs that are both fluffy and tender is a balance of water and fat . Also you can choose not to add anything and just whisk the eggs very well before cooking . This will incorporate air and result in fluffier eggs . In the end , it will be your choice . I would suggest trying all three ways and deciding which you like best .
The Ozeri Deluxe milk frother claims an rpm of 15000 rpm <URL> However I have seen in ikea ( and pound / dollar stores ) a much cheaper option that to me seems much the same <URL> Hope this helps
end question
start question
Making real soured milk - what sort of lactobacillus culture to get ?
<URL> is probably your best bet . It 's a fermentative bacteria , is considered a probiotic , and using it results in a sour milk with an even , palatable flavor . The upside of using acidophilus is that you can buy it from the grocery/drug store in tablet or capsule form . I 'm not sure about regional availability , but my local HEB has cold-kept acidophilus culture available for purchase which I have used in the past to make acidophilus cheese by fermenting at relatively high temperatures ( though Streptococcus thermophilus is honestly better for making cheese ) . Alternatively , you can just put a scoop of fresh live-culture yogurt in your milk , which will work just as well . Keep in mind that the temperature of fermentation will affect the consistency of the finished product . When making acidophilus cheese , I kept the temperature near 100 ° F for nearly a day . According to <URL> , adding the culture to 115 ° F to 120 ° F milk and allowing it to set up for 6 hours will produce yogurt . This leads me to believe that adding the culture to milk at a lower temperature and letting it set up for a shorter time will yield soured milk that is n't thickened to yogurt levels . Since acidophilus does n't require curing , you can just taste the milk as it sets to determine how sour you want it to get .
In my reading , injera is a sourdough-leavened flatbread , and it does indeed have the consistency you describe . I 've made it with wheat and ( the more traditional ) <URL> flour . It 's not sweet or quick-bread ( in any sense ! ) but is fun , tasty , and worth a try to eat or make . If I 'm understanding correctly , what you 're looking for is a pancake with qualities I 'm often trying to avoid . :) Guesses on how to get where you want , based on what you 've got so far , based on what I 've done accidentally in the past . Apologies that this is all over the map . Over-mix your batter . With quick-breads you often want delicate crumb ; over-mixing will give you more gluten development ( assuming wheat or other gluten-containing flour ) . This will have a more rubbery mouthfeel . Let your batter rest longer . This will also allow gluten to develop ( and/or relax ) , which might have a similar effect . Use a harder ( higher-percentage gluten ) <URL> . Flours will vary greatly in protein ; try a high protein " bread flour " made with hard wheat . These might help with the sponginess factor also . Might also want to experiment with type and amount of leavening . more or less quantity of baking powder , or perhaps baking soda optionally with some kind of acid ( e.g. , buttermilk ) . yeasted pancakes ! I ca n't immediately find a passable recipe link , but James Beard had a lovely ( albeit a bit finicky ) overnight yeast pancake recipe . Give it about 4 attempts before you abandon it . :) Wackier suggestions : Try soy milk . Unlikely to be how your favorite restaurant is accomplishing it 's feat , but this might do something different because of protein or perhaps if there 's other adulterants or thickeners like gums or so . Go off the deep end : try a thickener like corn starch , arrowroot , carrageenan , xanthan gum , ... Try a gluten-free pancake recipe or mix . Who knows ! Good luck ! Have fun ! And let me know if I 've missed your goal .
All excellent information , but can I answer bluntly : none of them come even CLOSE to the real thing . Once you use fresh stock , you will never , ever go back . Really . Making stock is easy , cheap , and as said above , unattended time . Stock forms the base of the kitchen , once you have it , you will notice the taste of everything you make improve so much . Get some bones ( most butchers will give the away for free , just become friends ) cold water , bring to boil , throw away the dirty water , start again with fresh water . This saves you the trouble to skim the grey foam , which is the white blood cells and other bitter tasting substances . It is also much more effective as skimming . And it results in a clearer , better tasting stock . When you do it , you will see what I mean straight away . I even rinse the pan Add onions and celery , and basically all the cut-offs of all your vegetables . pepper corns , bay leaves , unpeeled garlic cloves , whatever you like . You dont need to peel the onion . The fuller the pan , the better the stock . On your storage problem : two solutions . Big restaurants do not store , they just have a big pan boiling night and day . Small scale : after a hours or a night of slow boiling or so , remove bones and veggies . Cool . When fat is solid , remove and use this for frying : fried taters , etc. . Now boil down the broth , really down to say 20 percent . You have a demi glace now . Put it in ice cube trays , and freeze . When frozen , remove , and put in bags . You have now concentrated fresh stock that takes up no space , and you can use in any quantity you require . Please try it . Again : NOTHING comes close to the real deal .
I think using an empty can is a brilliant , frugal idea ... but if you want something a bit more exciting , chain stores like Bed Bath &amp; Beyond sell decent tubs of cookie cutters . If you have one of those mailer coupons , you can get a ridiculous amount ( like a pack of 100 ) for less than $ 20 .
I 've heard a few different answers ( theories ) as to why you should use different temperature liquids to the roux , most of it 's related to starch gelatinization . I 'm also not a fan of scalding milk when I do n't have to , as it can bubble over if you do n't pay attention and/or taken on a bit of a scorched taste . I 've always <URL> in part because that 's the way I learned growing up , but if I 'm thickening a gravy I 'm generally using warmer liquid ( drippings , let to sit so you can separate out the fat ) . I rarely use a roux to thicken something near a boil ... for that , I 'll use a slurry . There are differences when dealing with adding cold liquid to a roux -- you need to add the liquid slowly , and stir it well before each addition , which also gives it a chance to come back up to temperature . Of course , I recommend always adding the liquid slowly , as I find it easier than trying to work out lumps afterwards .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
<URL> You can definitely become intoxicated , but this is not advised . When you drink alcohol , it is absorbed through the lining of your digestive system and passes through the bloodstream to reach your brain . This means that the alcohol will be buffered by the contents of your digestive system , getting you drunk more gradually . When inhaled , the alcohol is absorbed directly into the bloodstream through the lungs , so intoxication will happen much more quickly , not giving you time to " back off " if you think you 've had too much .
Common names of plants are a very unclear matter . There are big differences not only between languages , but also regional differences within a single language . There are lots of ( closely related ) plants which are sold under the name blueberry . And probably not even the person who grew ( or gathered ) them can tell you the exact species . While it does matter when it comes to jam ( for the same reason it matters whether you use Roma tomatoes or Cherry tomatoes for a sauce ) it is highly improbable to find a source which can consistently provide you with a specific known variety . Also , you probably have to study some very specified botanical literature and be provided with parts of the plant other than the berries in order to be able to identify the type with some degree of accuracy . On the other hand , do n't let that come in the way of good jam . Blood orange marmelade may taste different than bitter orange marmelade , but both are good . The same goes for blueberries : you can use any variety , even if some of them would be a bit better on their own . What you need for a jam is a good sweetness to acid ratio , the proper amount of pectin , and as much aroma as possible . A softer texture also helps to prevent unpleasant lumps . So generally , you want to go with the ripest fruit available . They are soft , and have the fullest aroma . This is something you might want to consider with your current source of berries : maybe they 're not a special " green on the inside " variety , but only underripe . If they do n't taste very sweet , and their aroma is n't very complex , I 'd try to find other sources . Farmer 's markets and organic stores are usually able to sell much better fruits ( because they cater to a picky , price-inelastic clientelle ) , but of course they cost a lot too . Sweet fruit is always good , but you need enough sugar added for food safety . A ratio of 2:1 ( fruit to sugar ) can still be kept in the pantry , more fruit than that and you need to refrigerate the unopened glasses too . With blueburries , you 'll need to add both pectin ( to get the jam to gel ) and acid ( to get the pectin to work ) . This is the part which will vary with fruit variety : more watery types will need more pectin , and less acidic types will need more acid . If you want a good quality jam , you 'll need to do some experiments until you get the proportions right . If not , you can buy " jam sugar " or however it is called in your country - this is sugar with pectin and acid already added . It wo n't have the perfect ratio for your fruit , but it will more or less work . But then , if this quality is enough for you , you can skip buying the expensive berries and slaving at the stove , and buy manufactured jam .
The way I do it is put 1-2 tbsp of oil in my pot , add 1/3 cup or so of corn , cover , and heat on medium until it starts popping , then turn down a bit and shake the pot occasionally until it is all popped . So , not oil free , but not a whole lot of oil either .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
I just looked it up . Maple syrup is almost pure sucrose-water syrup . ( I know that the colour and flavour are very distinctive , but the molecules responsible for them are a very small percentage by weight ) . Which means that it behaves just like regular candy crystalization . The bad news is that candy crystalization is n't easy . There are just too many factors which have an influence on the texture . The good news is that people have already created such recipes . Find such a recipe and follow it exactly to the letter ! If it says " wooden spoon " , do n't use a metal spoon , etc. . And do n't even start without a thermometer , unless you have had years of experience to perfect your water test technique . As I have n't ever made or seen this specific candy , I ca n't tell you which parameter values will give you the needed texture . But I can list the usual parameters which influence the final texture . As for general understanding , what you have is a saturated sugar solution . When you heat it , water evaporates , making the solution more concentrated , but on the other hand , sugar is more solvable at higher temperatures , meaning that it does n't get supersaturated when heated gently . When the concentrated syrup cools , it becomes supersaturated , because the concentration does n't change , but the solvability does . If you give the sugar the smallest chance to form separate largish crystals during cooling , it will do it . For a consistent texture , you must watch following parameters extremely carefully . the density of your sugar syrup . It is measured indirectly by measuring the boiling temperature of the syrup . The exact temperature at which you must stop boiling will be given in the recipe ( do n't forget to adjust for altitude , subtract 1 ° C for every 300 meters ) . If the recipe only tells you a syrup stage ( something like " hardball " ) , use a <URL> . Allow leeway for carryover - when you remove a pan from the stove , it continues to heat its contents for a while , so remove two-three degrees early ( or more , depending on the pot ) . You can immerse the pot immeidately in cold water if it has gotten too hot , but this is n't so good for the pot itself . The speed of hardening . I have a vague memory that you ca n't use rapid cooling for a non-sandy candy texture , but do n't remember it 100 % correctly . Rely on your recipe , if it tells you to pour it on a marble slate , do it , or at least use a refrigerated thick metal pan or something similar which cools quickly . Nucleation points . These are very hard to avoid , but if you need a sandy texture ( what you seem to want ) , it is much easier . If you want to have no nucleation ( for a smooth hard candy ) , you must do everything possible to have no sugar crystals and no impurities in your syrup and to not disturb the pot . This is the reason for most weird requirements in candy recipes , like washing and drying the termometer before each dip , or the abovementioned wooden spoon . Stove temperature . It must be hotter than your goal temperature , but if too hot , the sugar will scorch on the bottom . Also , the evaporation rate is changed by temperature , which may contribute to supersaturation . Chemical help . You may need to invert your sugar ( use acid , cream of tartar is common - just follow the recipe ) or add glucose and/or fructose . This prevents the creation of crystalization nuclei in your supersaturated syrup . You probably do n't need that , because it is more important for the popsicle-style candies . Breaking up crystals . For candies where multiple soft crystals are expected , you may need to manipulate the mass mechanically after the crystalization has started . Kneading and beating are common . They result in the breaking up and mixing the crystals , resulting in a soft mass ( fondant , fudge ) as opposed to big hard crystals ( the ones daniel 's method will create ) . The more you do that , the creamier your texture will get . As you see , there are way too many variables to experiment with . You could do it , but you 'll need lots of luck and patience to hit on the right combination . Pick a recipe , and follow it . If needed , adjust the result according to the guidelines I gave ( e. g. kneading more for creaminess ) . I just noticed , the site I linked for the chart has a page describing some maple syrup candy types , and lists the correct temperature and basic handling stages for them . Could be a good starting point . ( <URL> )
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
The culture is everywhere in the yogurt , and you are not losing all of the whey anyway . If you 'd managed to press out all of the moisture , you 'd end up with yogurt powder . Salt interferes with all kinds of microorganisms . It is much better to not add salt to culture .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
Do n't reuse an old milk jug for storing the new , combined milk . The standard plastics used in milk jugs in most areas can not be properly sanitized for reuse ( even with standard sanitizing solutions ) . Instead , use a properly sanitized and covered glass or plastic container , preferably one that you clean in a hot water dish washer . Milk stored in a properly cleaned container will have the maximum shelf life ( and reduced chance of other contaminants ) .
I believe you 're referring to my comment and it was actually referring to <URL> . To summarize ( follow the link for specific instructions ) , the technique is : Steam the wings for 10 minutes Season , then chill them in the refrigerator for 1 hour Bake at high temperature ( 450 ° F ) for 20 minutes on each side Toss with sauce . Why cook them this way ? Because it makes them perfectly crispy and juicy , almost like deep-fried wings ( better , if you ask me ) . Assuming the sauce has an appropriate amount of fat ( butter ) then it will also bind perfectly .
I 've made kefir many times . When you first start using kefir grains , they take time to recover from not being in milk for a while ( ie , if they were sent to you by courier or post ) and to adjust to the conditions in your kitchen . It 's normal for the first few batches of kefir to smell and taste like the milk went bad . Instead of going with fermenting the kefir in 6 cups of milk over 48 hours , I would suggest your next batch be for something like 2 or 3 cups of milk over 24 hours . Shorter batch times combined with a smaller batch size means the ferment wo n't take as long , so there 's less time for the milk to go bad if that 's going to happen .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
end question
start question
When , if ever , are dried herbs preferable to fresh herbs ?
Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary , so you can grind them up properly . The main advantage to dry herbs is that they 're available year round . When you 're dealing with winter dishes , dry herbs would 've been the norm to have used at that time . If you are going to substitute , you 'll need to add more ( typically about 3x as much , as the dry is usually more concentrated ) , and you 'll want to add it late in the cooking process , while dry herbs are usually added early . One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you 'll still need to add them early , and you 'll want to reduce the number .
<URL> is the bark of a tree . It is either sold as rolled strips of bark ( = cinnamon sticks ) or ground . It will not dissolve , neither in water nor in alcohol . What you want to do is basically the same as was done commercially with the vanilla extract you are already using : Extract the taste , then discard the bark itself . Alcohol is a good choice for extracting volatile aromatics . You could try and soak a few cinnamon sticks or a few tablespoons of ground cinnamon in a " neutral " alcohol like vodka or - if you are using it exclusively for your signature drink - use the brandy . This process might take from a few days to a few weeks , so nothing you can do " on the spur of the moment " . Another good carrier for the cinnamon taste would be water . You can simmer a few cinnamon sticks in water , then sieve . This is the same method that is used for mulled wine or mulled cider . To extend the shelf life of the " cinnamon water " , you might considering turning it into simple syrup by boiling it with an equal amount of sugar . Whether you use water or alcohol is a question of personal taste and planned other uses . The shelf life of an alcohol based extract might be longer , but with a sufficiently high sugar content , clean handling and refrigeration the syrup will last long , too . Time is a factor : The syrup can be ready and cooled in an hour or so , whereas the alcohol will take significantly more time . Both methods work for vanilla , too - you could even make a " instant mix " for your drink . Be warned , though : Filtering ground cinnamon from a liquid can be quite a hassle . It tends to clog coffe filters , but is too fine to be held back by a sieve . If you decide to use ground cinnamon because that 's what you have at hand , consider letting it settle at the bottom of your container and carefully decanting the liquid from top . A coffe filter or a cloth-lined sieve can catch stray particles . You should get much better results by using whole or coarsely crushed cinnamon sticks . There has been an ongoing discussion on what kind of cinnamon to use , so a short wrap-up here : Cinnamon is derived from a group of plants , which vary in their properties and compounds . Especially <URL> , a substance also found in tonka bean , woodruff and other plants , has been widely discussed for its toxicity and is regulated in the EU . <URL> has the highest content whereas <URL> contains only traces . From a culinary point , the cheaper cassia , which contains more bark and is usually sold ground or in pieces , is often considered inferior in taste to the true cinnamon , which often comes in sticks . I will not venture a statement here , neither on health nor culinary claims . I am sure every reader of this post is capable of making an informed decision .
Basically everything at all normal is safe . There is a mushroom that gets toxic if combined with alcohol , but alcohol itself is n't 100 % safe and if you 're gathering wild mushrooms you need to be safety conscious , so it 's not really something you could run into by accident or with storebought ingredients . Relevant paragraph from <URL> Consuming Coprinopsis atramentaria within a few hours of alcohol results in a " disulfiram syndrome " . This interaction has only been known since the early part of the twentieth century . Symptoms include facial reddening , nausea , vomiting , malaise , agitation , palpitations and tingling in limbs , and arise five to ten minutes after consumption of alcohol . If no more alcohol is consumed , they will generally subside over two or three hours . Symptom severity is proportional to the amount of alcohol consumed , becoming evident when blood alcohol concentration reaches 5 mg/dL , and prominent at concentrations of 50 -- 100 mg/dL . Disulfiram has , however , been known to cause myocardial infarction ( heart attack ) . The symptoms can occur if even a small amount of alcohol is consumed up to three days after eating the mushrooms , although they are milder as more time passes . Rarely , a cardiac arrhythmia , such as atrial fibrillation on top of supraventricular tachycardia , may develop .
Yes you can use 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) of light/dark corn syrup : You can use any of the following substitutions : 1 cup of honey 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) maple syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light or dark corn syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light molasses plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 1 1/4 cups ( 250 grams - 265 grams ) granulated white or brown sugar plus 1/4 cup ( 60 ml ) additional liquid in recipe plus 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar Courtesy of <URL>
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
In my experience , the answer for most leafy herbs is yes , fragance and flavor is preserved . Never tryed hyssop , however <URL> site says it freezes fine : it can be dried or frozen and stored for later use . When harvesting a hyssop plant , cut it in the morning hours once any dew has dried . Hang the plants upside down in small bunches to dry in a dark , well-ventilated area . Alternatively , you can place the leaves in a plastic bag after removing them from the stems and place in the freezer until ready to use .
I 've had apricots that smell vaguely like alcohol before , especially the ones that are not completely desiccated but are still plump and only dried to about half or so of their original volume . I 've never had problems eating them and have n't had them go bad .
Yes , it matters a lot . When you are separating egg whites , it is for whipping them into a foam . This foam is a protein-based foam , relying on protein ends hooking into each other . Even small traces of fat will prevent the foam from forming . Egg yolks contain high amounts of fat . Once an egg yolk breaks in your whites , you have to start the separation anew , because it can prevent your foam from forming . Also , do n't use plastic bowls for whipping egg whites ( their surface retains some fat molecules even after washing , giving you a less stable foam ) and only whip with a cleanly washed whisk or mixer attachment ( not one you have just used for something else , not even if you wiped it clean ) . To prevent big mishaps , just separate each new egg in a teacup and only add the new white to the old whites after it has separated cleanly . Else you are in big trouble if you are separating a lot and the last egg contaminates the whole whites with yolk . And a single contaminated egg is easily reused for a quick egg-and-feta sandwich or something else . Contamination the other way round is n't so worrisome . You still want to work as precisely as possible , as yolk-only recipes will often have somewhat worse texture if eggwhite is included , but small contaminating amounts are usually not noticeable in the finished product , even in foams ( zabaglione , mayonnaise ) . This is because yolk foams are fat-based , and small amounts of protein do n't prevent a fat foam from forming .
You can look for a CSA in your area , <URL> : CSAs consist of a system of weekly delivery or pick-up of vegetables and fruit in a vegetable box scheme , sometimes including dairy products and meat . You can use <URL> to try to find one in your area .
You should look for some coconut cream which is a semi solid block of very fine coconut puree found in asian food stores , it 's more of a paste . Coconut cream from a can in my experience has been a combination of coconut milk and the " cream " ( fats ) which seperates out from the milk . Generally a less intensive mixture compared to the paste . In Canada Coconut Cream is tough to find but every store has coconut milk in cans with different amounts of " cream " content which explains the price differences . In the UK coconut cream is a common place item in the asian stores and probably the grocery stores now . ( I lived there in the early 90 's so it 's probably gone more main stream by now . ) Recipes could call for coconut milk , coconut cream or both for curry .
Pasta ( by which I infer you mean dried , Italian-style semolina pasta ) is edible raw , right out of the package . It is not , however , palatable . If you soak it in water , it will hydrate and soften over time , but that is not the same as cooking it . True cooking also cooks the proteins and takes away that raw starchy taste . There is no way to achieve that without the application of some heat above about 180 F for at least a few minutes . See also : <URL> Note that in one of the answers to that question , Rumtscho points out that supermarket ramen noodles are precooked ( they are generally par-fried , sometimes par-baked ) and are much more palatable eaten straight from the package , or simply soaked .
First of all , with omelettes -- any sauteed eggs really -- I much prefer butter . And with omelettes , less than a teaspoon is sufficient ; swirl it around the pan until fully melted , then pour off the excess . In this case , you would be using the butter for flavour , not any specific physical properties . For scrambled , user rather more . Fried eggs are generally the only time I will use olive oil , and even then I will use a mix of olive oil ( for the heat ) and butter ( for that flavour which goes so well with eggs ) . In general I prefer to avoid sprays ( unless you are talking about a pump-action spray bottle which you fill yourself ) as there are propellants and such used in sprays to make them work . Personally I prefer to avoid multisyllabic synthetic chemicals in my food whenever possible . But if you must ... sprays are most useful when you need a very thin but even coating of oil . Omelettes are a good example , though honestly I can not think of another use in cookery where I would find a spray advantageous . In baking , however , sprays can be quite useful . Especially when baking tarts , pies , or cakes which call for the pan to be buttered and then floured . A quick spray makes things much simpler .
That sort of grinding only works with seeds and such . Chiles are too fibrous . I use a cuisinart mini mate chopper/grinder for all my spice milling needs . There 's a dull side to the blade for grinding stuff like peppercorns , and a sharp side for stuff like chiles . About the only thing my mortar and pestle ever gets used for is grinding kosher salt to a more useful grain size .
Without knowing the constituent ingredients of the sausage it is difficult to give exact advice . There are generally two types of chorizo fresh ( or cooking chorizo ) and cured chorizo . Fresh or cooking chorizo is made with pork , red wine , smoked paprika and salt ( along with some other spices depending on the particular recipe ) . The alcohol and salt combine as a mild preservative and therefore the sausage will last a little longer than a normal fresh sausage but only a few weeks realistically . As the name and the lack of a long curing process suggests it needs cooking before it can be eaten . Cured chorizo is made using similar ingredients but uses more salt and sometimes some sodium nitrate and nitrite . The additional chemicals create a much stronger preservative drawing out the moisture and curing the meat so that it can be safely eaten raw when finished . Cured chorizo develops a darker colour and loses around 30 % of it 's weight as it hangs whereas the fresh chorizo is likely to go bad if left to hang but this is only general advice and not definitive . As for hanging locations , sausages normally hang best in cool environments , 15 degrees C max , with a humidity of 60-70 % . Hope this helps .
They are a small , white , mildly flavored bean . You can use cannellini or navy beans instead .
The key thing here is a substance called <URL> and it is found in your Incredible , Edible Egg ! Doing the adding of the egg one-by-one , plus a few other things are ... in the service of creating a stable emulsion of liquid and fat in the batter . When this is done correctly , the cake will have a springy , even crumb , great flavor , and light texture . If the batter is not properly emulsified , the resulting cake can be uneven and flat , flavorless , and have a heavy texture . It 's even possible for the cake to " fall " or sink into itself when baking . An emulsion is the suspension of small globules of one liquid in a second liquid with which the first will not mix , such as oil and vinegar . To create an emulsion , we slowly add eggs to the butter mixture , one at a time , beating rapidly to suspend the water from the butter and egg whites in the fats from the butter and egg yolks . Lecithin , an emulsifier found in eggs , helps to stabilize the emulsion , as does aeration from steady , rapid beating . Adding the eggs slowly makes it easier disperse the liquid , and promote even suspension of liquid in fat . So to recap , liquid and fat do not mix together . The egg has Lecithin that acts like a bond that keeps those 2 together . By flooding the mixture with the substance that will act like a binder ( egg ) , you actually make it harder for all the water in the butter / eggs to bind to the fat in the butter / eggs . Picture of Emulsion Take note that in this picture , the oil to make the mayonnaise was added too fast in the failed picture . Take a look at thesproatingseed.com link below for even more information on emulsion ! This answer was made possible by <URL> , <URL> , and <URL>
Pink has to do with blood , which typically runs clear once it reaches a certain temperature . This is not a great rule of thumb for making delicious food . It 's particularly problematic with thighs , because they contain a vein that can remain red or pink well through the cooking process . This is less so if the chicken is washed or the veins cleaned . The key is temperature , not color . If you have a meat thermometer , aim for 165-170 ° F ( 74-77 ° C ) , keeping in mind that meat will continue cooking for 5-10 ° F ( 3-6 ° C ) once it 's pulled and allowed to rest for 5 minutes . If you do n't have a thermometer , aim for meat that is responsively tender but not too firm , opaque rather than transparent , and not slimy or gelatinous in texture . Thighs are a little more tolerant than breasts when it comes to drying out because they have more fat , but nothing is sadder than overcooked meat ( except maybe salmonella poisoning ) .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
McGee writes : " Capsaicin appears to accumulate in the fruit concurrently with the pigment during ripening " . ( On Food and Cooking , p. 212 ) So yes , chilis get hotter as they ripen ( that is , as they turn from green to red ) . Many chili varieties are picked and sold in stores while still unripe and green ( e.g. jalapeño , serrano , poblano ) , but you will occasionally see ripe , red ones in stores . All of the dried chilis I 've seen in stores have been completely ripened before drying ( e.g. chipotles , which are smoked , dried red jalapeños and anchos , which are dried , red poblano peppers ) . I 've personally observed this effect with padron peppers , which are usually picked green and mild , but can ripen to red , hot peppers if left on the plant .
I had the same problem with floating chillis so I now soak mine in a cafetiere .
end question
start question
Is there such thing as " almond tofu , " and if so , is it a misnomer ?
It 's semantic nitpicking . Tofu is defined as soy milk , curdled and pressed . Some people who do n't care about oriental culinary tradition think of tofu as any non-dairy milk that is curdled and pressed into a curd . Technically your almond tofu would be almond milk curd or some such . In reality your coworker is being pedantic and I would accept the term " almond tofu " as a perfectly understandable , non oriental , colloquialism .
Strictly speaking most gumbo recipes I am familiar with rely on the use of a roux as the primary thickening agent . Sure the okra contributes somewhat but in my experience using a darkened roux is what is called for . Please keep in mind that the more you cook the roux the less thickening power it has so you need to use a little more .
Butter traditionally has salt in it as a preservative , mainly to stop bacterial growth on the residual whey , and to slow fat rancidity Modern butter has a much lower amount of salt than is required for shelf storage in the pre-electric era . Now we have refrigerators , salt is not required at such a high level Butter with no salt has nearly half of the shelf life of modern salted butter Processed sugar is a modern ingredient , and therefore there is no culture in having it in butter . Sweet yoghurt and milk are all " new " inventions Using salt as a preservative is as old as recorded history . Many cultures used salt to preserve fruits , as well as meats and vegetables
Visible cloudiness is a result of suspended particles of about 1 micrometer ( micron ) or larger in size . Technically , just about any juice could in theory be filtered to remove those particles . But there are a couple things going on here . First , any filtering , clarification , etc. does cause some modification of flavor . Flavor compounds can be much smaller than 1 micron , but how they 're perceived can be modified by larger particles that contribute to mouthfeel and by their relative concentrations . If you 're measuring against the raw food , any change subtly modifies how it tastes . A raw tomato tastes slightly different from tomato juice , which in turn tastes different than <URL> . This can have an especially strong impact on subtle flavors like vegetable juices . Second , 1 micron is pretty small . The average pore size for your <URL> is about 10-15 microns , meaning you have to go a full order of magnitude smaller in order to remove visible cloudiness . Besides physical filtration , there are other ways to do this like <URL> , but those may also remove things like suspended oils or specific flavor compounds . That might be okay if you mostly care about sweetness and you can add artificial flavors back later ( as with mass-produced juice blends ) but could be a problem if you 're going for a very " natural " flavor . In general , more filtering means more processing and more associated flavor change . Third , you 're right that there is a marketing aspect here . Consumers have grown used to certain types of juice being clear ( like apple juice ) and others being totally opaque ( like orange juice ) . A certain subset might also actually prefer clouded juices , seeing them as less processed ( which they generally are ) and therefore more " healthy " , regardless of whether that 's actually true . In short , you could filter just about any liquid clear through some means or another , but it will taste different , and will likely affect how much people will pay you for the result .
This depends on what you mean by a gelatin " substitute " . What you have to understand is that while most hydrocolloids have gelling and stabilizing properties , they are not simply interchangeable . You ca n't substitute one of them 1-for-1 where you need gelatin and expect everything to just work . A great place to start would be the <URL> which , despite its name , is almost more of a cookbook , because it has detailed information on the properties of each hydrocolloid . <URL> is actually a stronger gelling agent than gelatin in the sense of having to use less of it to get the same strength , but you need to use it properly . The most important property of agar is that unlike gelatin , which gives hydration at temperatures as low as 50 ° C , agar requires a temperature of 90 ° C . In other words , you need to heat the water all the way to a rapid boil before the agar will actually " activate " . A light simmer is not enough . The other notable property of agar is syneresis , which is the loss of moisture over time . Agar sets extremely fast compared to gelatin and above room temperature , but unless you combine it with a small amount of <URL> , it will actually dry out . Otherwise , though , you can absolutely , definitely substitute agar-agar for gelatin if you actually get pure agar ( I made the mistake of buying the " dessert agar " once , which is not the same thing ) and hydrate/set it properly . In fact , the biggest concern with using agar as a substitute for gelatin is that you might end up with something too stiff , since gelatin produces a much softer gel . Perhaps the closest hydrocolloid to gelatin in terms of its properties is iota type carrageenan . Here 's a side-by-side comparison of the most important characteristics ( this is all taken from the HRC ) : Property | Gelatin | Carrageenan | Agar ------------------ + ----------- + ------------- + --------- <URL> | Yes | Yes | Yes Strength | Soft | Soft | Hard Elasticity | Elastic | Elastic | Brittle <URL> | No | Yes | No Hydration | 50 ° C | 70 ° C | 90 ° C Setting Temp . | 15 ° C | 40-70 ° C | 35-45 ° C Setting Speed | Slow | Fast | Fast Melting Temp . | 25-40 ° C | 45-80 ° C * | 80-90 ° C Viscosity | Low | Medium | Low Gelling Conc . | 0.6-1 .7 % | 1.0-1 .5 % | 0.2 % Syneresis | No | No | Yes You should be able to see by this how much closer carrageenan is to gelatin ; trouble is , it 's difficult to find , and you have to get the right kind ( the kappa type and other types have very different properties ) . There 's actually an even better type of carrageenan to use a gelatin substitute , if you can find it : It 's called <URL> and it 's specifically designed to be a gelatin replacement . I 'd like to also note for the record that the answer in your <URL> is not really appropriate for gelatin desserts that need to hold their shape . Xanthan gum is a fantastic and versatile hydrocolloid but ( to the best of my knowledge ) it does not " set " the way that gelatin , agar , or carrageenan do . It 's more of a thickener/emulsifier/stabilizer , at its highest concentrations being used to produce foams ( but not gels ) . It 's often used to stabilize other gels/foams but I 've never heard of it being used to create a gel on its own . Guar gum is also largely just a thickener , that you could use a stabler replacement for corn starch or arrowroot , which is also mentioned in that answer . None of these are appropriate at all for gels ( desserts ) , they are only useful as thickeners .
All the blender does is emulsify the mixture -- it has no effect on how long it will keep before the dressing begins to spoil or go off . Normally , oil and water do not like to mix . The oil will coalesce into droplets , then rise to the top due to buoyancy , so that you will have a layer of oil above the water-based liquids . Blending the mixture will break up the oil droplets into very small droplets . These take much longer to coalesce together , so you have a creamy dressing for a time . Over time , the oil can coalesce and separate back out . If this happens , assuming the ingredients have not spoiled , you can always remix or re-blend the mixture -- it s not a safety issue . I suggest storing your dressing in the refrigerator , where it will be good for several days , probably up to a week , although the oil may separate out . You can freeze it , but this is likely to encourage the emulsion to break . Note : I have not discussed emulsifiers like lecithin from egg yolks or mustard which help keep oil-water emulsions stable , because I do n't see any in this recipe .
Time to apply a bit of healthy skepticism here : The blog post : Is ( so far ) the first and only one I 've ever seen stating mold to be a practical problem in coffee - in the sense of being present in a high enough quantity to matter ( mold grows everywhere ) . Uses all kinds of weasel words to describe symptoms ( " edgy " , " cranky " , " useless mentally " ) . Describes symptoms that are well in line with plain old <URL> . Frequently links to other blog posts on the same site , most of which are " top 10 ways " and " top 5 reasons " fluff pieces . Manages to cite and thoroughly misuse two studies : <URL> , and <URL> . Both are about Ochratoxin A ( OA ) , which is n't even the biggest risk ; Aflatoxin is . ( More on these later ) . Advertises a fairly expensive product , sold by the same author . The author : Is , according to his LinkedIn profile ( which I refuse to link here ) , the VP of Cloud Security at <URL> - a Silicon Valley tech company . I could not find any evidence that he or his his employer has any experience in human biology or nutrition . Makes all sorts of unusual claims about himself : " He upgraded his brain by > 20 IQ points , lowered his biological age , and lost 100 lbs without using calories or exercise . " Has an entire page of testimonials , which he frequently cites as " evidence " . Has an entire site dedicated to product-peddling , including the ubiquitous <URL> ( yes , that 's hyperbole ) and a <URL> . Has the following disclaimers on the product site ( all in tiny print at the bottom ) : The statements made on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA ( U.S. Food &amp; Drug Administration ) . Our products are not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease . The information provided by this website or this company is not a substitute for a face-to-face consultation with your physician , and should not be construed as individual medical advice . The testimonials on this website are individual cases and do not guarantee that you will get the same results . In short , he employs tactics which are commonplace among con artists selling magnetic bracelets . In my opinion , all his claims are technobabble , and I think they are not trustworthy . The facts and studies : The largest sample tested was just 60 samples of beans , and was tested from only one source ( Brazil ) . This is fine for individual studies , but in the real world there are hundreds ( thousands ? ) of sources from many different countries . It 's safe to say that the current studies do n't even come close to testing all of the coffee from around the world . Both OA studies found an incidence rate of approximately 50 % for the OA-producing mold , at wildly different concentrations ( minimum 0.2 ppb in one study , maximum 7.8 ppb in another ) . If this tells me anything at all , it 's that you should probably vary your source if you want to minimize your risk . Neither the FDA nor the EFSA actually have a legal limit for OA , but the EFSA " suggests " a limit of 8 µg / kg , which means that even the worst samples are below the very conservative legal limit . One study actually tested the incidence of OA in brewed coffee , not just the beans , and found a maximum of 7.8 ppb in the brew ( that 's 7.8 µg per 1 kg of ground coffee ) . For reference , there 's an <URL> recommending an intake of no more than 120 ng/kg ( body weight ) per week , which comes out to 8.4 µg / week for a 150 lb/70 kg individual , or 1.2 µg / day . Based on the worst contamination of brewed coffee ( 7.8 µg / kg ) , doing the math , you 'd have to consume the brew from 150 g of ground coffee per day . That 's about half a standard-sized tin of coffee . Per day . If you drink that much coffee , shame on you . The <URL> ( the one rumtscho linked to , not cited by the blogger/con artist ) looked at Aflatoxin , not Ochratoxin , which actually is regulated by the FDA at a maximum of 20 ppb . This study also showed approximately a 50 % incidence rate after roasting , with the highest concentration of AT being 16 µg / kg for decaf ( less with caffeine ) . So that means with any random cup of coffee you have up to a 50 % chance of consuming an amount of AT that 's still well below the FDA limit - that 's very nearly zero risk . None of the studies test the rate of mold growth on beans while in storage under various conditions ( temperature , humidity , etc. ) , so we ca n't comment on what happens in storage . So I guess if you want to really be on the safe side , only buy as much coffee as you think you can use in a week or two . Conclusion : Do n't believe everything that people tell you - especially people with something to sell . Unless you 're drinking gallons of coffee a day , brewed coffee is perfectly safe .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
How much is too much is a totally subjective thing . Yes , there is such a thing as too much , but where that point is will vary among tasters . There is no objective question here to answer . No one answer to the question will be " correct " . I really like vanilla , and I like flavors to be on the rich side , so I tend to be a bit heavy-handed with vanilla . A few ( very few ) times I have been surprised to have that heavy-handedness criticized . Why would they not like my amazing vanilla ice cream ? They experience vanilla differently than I do . What is ideal for me may be overdone , even cloying , to my neighbor . So , when it comes to various flavorings ( vanilla is just one of many ) , get to know your own " likes " and what your audience likes . After that , you can ignore what the recipe says and just do what feels right to you , knowing your audience and the potency of your ingredients as well .
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
I like chef Ramsay , he can be snobbish and course at times but he knows food and he 's a straight shooter and tells it like it is . Sometimes he 's just saying the food is n't hot or even warm in the middle , but some times he is referring to frozen vs fresh ingredients . Most food is better when it 's fresh , because freezing destroys cell walls and breaks down some materials . For everyday cooking that may be just fine , but when you are charging a premium for your meal , he expects top notch and I agree with him . Just to put a foot note on it , try this at home . Steam some broccoli , side by side , use fresh broccoli and frozen and see what the difference is . It 's quite a huge gap .
Both sweet and mild refers to the sausages without hot red pepper flakes . The fact they are called sweet Italian sausages does n't mean they contain sugar .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
When I made scones for the first time , I also found the taste a bit unusual . The recipe I used specified a total of 11 g baking powder and baking soda per 250 g flour , and also 5 g salt . I used less salt , but the taste is definitely unusal for people accustomed to continental Kleingebäck . I can see two reasons for this . First , the dough for scones is quite unusual , something between cookie and pastry . It is a lot tougher than the usual soda-leavened dough . So I guess that it needs additional leavening power in order to create a light texture , unlike the semiliquid batters which raise without a problem . Plus , it gets no help from egg whites the way some cakes do ( in fact , my recipe specified egg yolks only ) . The second point is one you already mentioned in the question . It seems that the English tradition is to eat scones with cream and jam . I tried it with my own scones , and the combination was quite good . I do n't eat much jam , as it is too sweet for my taste , but the pairing with the bland scones was really nice . A sweeter or richer vehicle would have made the whole thing overwhelming .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
Two things . Use a sharper knife . Do n't chop , but slice gently . Let the weight of the blade do the cutting .
It 's semantic nitpicking . Tofu is defined as soy milk , curdled and pressed . Some people who do n't care about oriental culinary tradition think of tofu as any non-dairy milk that is curdled and pressed into a curd . Technically your almond tofu would be almond milk curd or some such . In reality your coworker is being pedantic and I would accept the term " almond tofu " as a perfectly understandable , non oriental , colloquialism .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
end question
start question
What is a non-pork substitute for Italian sausage ?
By " Italian Sausage " I think you mean the seasoned pork sausage available in many supermarkets throughout the US . I 've found that a 30-70 mix of beef and turkey/chicken works reasonably well as a substitute when pork is not available . Beef is too strong a flavor and turkey too weak in its own . Flavor-wise most italian sausage has red wine , fennel , and oregano .
There are only four ways that I know of other than towels ( paper or otherwise ) to dry meat : Air circulation Time ( in a relatively dry environment ) . Heat Momentum Most people avoid the heat approach , as you 'll start to cook it once it 's hot enough to be safe for long-term storage of meat . Some recipes may start in a low oven to dry the surface , then remove it , let the oven pre-heat to a higher temperature , then finish cooking . ( as it 's difficult to give recipes that know how quickly your oven heats up ) . For momentum , you basically have to flick the meat such that the water gets flung off . Which is prone to lots of problems ( letting go of the meat , plus the spraying of contaminated liquid everywhere ) . You could use a salad spinner , but if you did , I 'd recommend keeping a separate one for meats , as you do n't want to risk contaminating other ingredients that would be eaten raw . For the airflow , you can set it under a low speed fan ... avoiding high speeds so you do n't end up aerosolizing the moisture and flinging it through the kitchen . Or you can place the food in a ventilated container and leave it in your fridge overnight ... possibly with a battery powered fan in the fridge to improve airflow . As all of these ideas have drawbacks ( food safety , time , etc. ) , most people just accept the waste of using paper towels . There are a few times when one of the others might be used ( food dehydrating , trying to get a glaze to set up ( eg , peking duck ) , dry brining , etc. ) , but they 're relatively rare .
The most accurate substitution would simply be <URL> . It is concentrated rum with a huge kick of flavor , and much less alcohol . A little goes a long way . If you 're going to stick with a strong liquor my first choice would be a <URL> , it 's a similarly " sweet " liquor that tastes good in baking . Another good option would be <URL> . If you 're avoiding liquor , then you may be able to use vanilla extract . Non-alcoholic varieties are available . According to <URL> you can also use molasses thinned with pineapple juice . The rum is used simply for flavor .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
My wife loves it toasted . Toast shredded coconut in a dry pan or oven and put on ice cream and other deserts . It 's really tasty . Like toasting other nuts be careful as if you blink it may burn .
Having taken a look around some recipe sites and taken the intersection of what most of them consider the " core " spices ( and leaving out the ones that showed up on too many ' variations ' lists ) , it looks like the canonical ones are : basil marjoram oregano rosemary thyme
Well , at least here in germany it really is common to make liverwurst with beef liver ( or more often and expensive : calf liver ) . So go ahead - you really wo n't regret it ! Taken the percentage of actual liver in liverwurst you wo n't taste any difference , though I 'd say beef liver tastes better .
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
Why Vanilla ??? Vanilla is a rich and powerful flavor , with over 200 flavor compounds besides the basic vanillin . Due to its complexity and neutral flavor , it can be combined with a plethora of other flavors without conflicting . It just provides a good neutral base to build on . The vanilla also enriches the products if they are combined with additional flavorings , adding body and depth to the final result . Ok , so Vanilla makes sense , but why add ANY flavoring ? On their own , sweet products may not have much flavor ( remember , ice cream is just milk , sugar , and cream ) . Vanilla gives them a little flavor as a starting point . It also masks any unpleasant flavors present as a result of ingredients . For example , truly unflavored yogurt has a fairly strong lactic acid flavor of its own ; this is something where you can get a TRULY unflavored yogurt and see what I mean . It 's a whole different animal , and brings to mind that it 's simply soured milk . Carbonated water similarly has a fairly unpleasant bite to it when no flavoring is added , as a result of the carbon dioxide reacting with water to produce carbonic acid . Why ca n't I find stuff without ANY flavoring ? You can , if you know where to look ! The truly unflavored products are generally used differently than their vanilla-flavored " unflavored " counterparts . Club soda / seltzer water is simply unflavored soda , and is stored with the stuff for mixed drinks , since that 's where it is normally used . Unflavored yogurt is used in cooking savory Mediterranean dishes , and may be to the side of the flavored yogurts . As the comment mentions , unflavored ice cream is available as sweet cream . I ca n't think of any other normally-vanilla flavored products , but if you can come up with some , I can probably find them for you under a different name .
Mirltons are a member of the squash family , but have a traslucent , soft-crisp texture which is n't really exactly like any other squash . In recipes where they are an incidental ingredient , you can generally substitute zucchini ( especially if you peel and seed it ) without too much trouble , but in recipes where they are a main flavor they are hard to substitute . And , as Mien points out , it never really works to substitute the main ingredient in a recipe . I suggest that your daughter wait for midsummer and check out Mexican or Indian groceries until she finds some .
Sort of . If you have sesame seeds on hand , grind some up . You could also use toasted sesame oil , and even combine it with the ground seeds . You can also use all-natural peanut butter . Do n't use mass market crap with sugar and other additives . The ingredients should list only : peanuts , salt . Obviously , this will taste like peanuts . It will still taste good in a hummus , but it will be a distinctly different hummus than with tahini .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
The good thing about Cumberland sausages is that the meat is supposed to be coarsely chopped and in of itself has a very high meat content . However , all good sausages have this quality also ! So in essence look for a sausage with a high meat content ( 80 % + ) and you ca n't go too far wrong .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
Couverture chocolate is generally used in coating and molding because it has such a nice sheen due to its high cocoa butter content . It 's usually very high quality and so should taste very good straight out of the bag , although the texture will be more creamy than non couverture chocolates . Couverture is not better than other high quality chocolate , just for a specific application . You wo n't find much chocolate candy made from it , that 's not because the chocolate is n't good stuff , it simply that the effect the makers intend requires a lower level of cocoa butter . As for how to tell good quality chocolate from poor quality the best way to tell is to taste it .
end question
start question
Can I use a deep fryer instead of a pot with oil ?
You can definitely cook donuts in a deep fryer . Most , if not all , donuts shops cook them in that manner . Just make sure your temperature is good and use something like chopsticks to flip them .
It appears to be feasible ! I found <URL> in which a " cooking expert " gives a specific recipe : Frozen egg tempura Remove the shell of a frozen egg and cut the egg in half lengthwise without thawing . A peeled egg is slippery , so put a paper towel on the cutting board before you place the egg on the board . Lightly flour the halves of the egg all over , and dip it in a mixture of three tablespoons of tempura flour and two tablespoons of water . Deep-fry the egg in oil heated at 160 C for about three minutes . They 're not too specific about the results , but I imagine they 'd have mentioned if it exploded or anything ! <URL> mentions doing essentially the same thing for a scotch egg : Freeze the raw egg in its shell , de-shell the frozen raw egg and wrap the sausage meat around it whilst it is still frozen . This can be difficult as the egg 's albumen defrosts quickly . Coat in flour , egg and breadcrumb . Fry till the scotch egg floats and the crumb is a deep golden brown . It 's the only way I know that gives a soft runny yolk every time . I do n't know what frying temperature was used , and it 's got sausage and breading around the egg rather than just tempura batter , but it 's a deep-fried egg , starting from raw/frozen , and produces a soft yolk .
It is possible to use a rice cooker to prepare rice from boxes but it is not optimal . These box rices typically call for the mixture to be first browned in butter before adding water and flavoring because it is not all rice . There are bits of pasta in the mixture too . The rice cooker is able to cook it but the result probably will not be as good . It is very possible to flavor white rice with seasoning . I often like to flavor my rice if I plan on making fried rice or if I am lazy and do n't feel like making anything but rice . If you want to imitate a specific flavor , you need to first find out exactly what that flavour is and put that seasoning in the water that cook the rice . Often though there might be some flavors that ca n't be added until afterwards . Such as the cheese flavored rice you mentioned . Cheese and rice cookers do n't mix . You would make the rice then later add a cheese sauce that you made . Please note that one main difference that might occur is slight difference in moisture content . From the box rice I 've made on the stove in the past , I know it is a bit more " wet " than rice made from a rice cooker . In my answer <URL> , I explained how a rice cooker works . Essentially it will continue to cook until all the water has boiled away .
You can definitely cook donuts in a deep fryer . Most , if not all , donuts shops cook them in that manner . Just make sure your temperature is good and use something like chopsticks to flip them .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
As to the science behind why this works , I can only guess . However , as to other things you can try for this trick , I managed to find some references from old cookbooks about using slices of potato for clarifying their deep-fryer oil . Other suggestions were a slice of bread or lemon peel . Weird -- but interesting . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When you have finished frying , clarify the oil by frying a piece of bread , a strip of lemon peel , or a slice of potato in it .
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
From a purist perspective , cabbage is fairly important to the recognizability of the dish by that name ( as well as the pickled matchstick-cut ginger ) . Additional ingredients beyond those two are far more substitutable ( at least from common Japanese perspective ) ; the cabbage actually contributes a fair amount of flavor to an otherwise unremarkable dish . In fact , the presence of a mere two leaves suggests to me this is a pretty small portion . So here 's a " how to avoid substituting " answer , followed by a how to substitute answer . Cabbage tends to survive a good 2 weeks in the refrigerator , so I would n't fret about it too much . It also makes a good garnish , shredded ; additionally , it was super trendy for a few years for izakaya in Japan to serve raw cabbage with miso paste ( sometimes sweetened ) . I know many shops that will even sell a half a head ( in Japan it 's easy to buy even a quarter head of cabbage ) , or you may find a small package of pre-chopped , unseasoned coleslaw mix , which typically contains cabbage and carrots . Finally , cabbage makes an excellent foundation for a vegetarian soup stock , so it 's great way of making sure any surplus does n't go to waste . The only substitutes somewhat consistent with the style of the dish are other variations of cabbage ( bok choy , napa cabbage , possibly kimchi ) or certain crispy roots like kohlrabi . But frankly , those steer the dish into a non-Japanese style of pan-fried noodles . Not that there 's anything wrong with that , but the texture and flavor differences are fairly pronounced . In a pinch , we 've made these substitutions in my home , but in that case it was more about using up available ingredients , rather than trying to find an alternative .
Depending on the design , the heating coil may have collapsed and is shorting out at various points This may cause it to run hotter than intended , and result in problems you describe Measure the current with a meter and compare to manufacturers label , if much higher it 's time to scrap it . Unlikely to be easily repairable if it has a heating coil If it is running hot it is likely to fail soon and not heat at all Modern crock-pots used solid elements , not coils . They also often have physical temperature regulation systems , not just a simple element selector switch
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
Look at : <URL> Conversion Measurements for Using Different Yeasts in Recipes :
It depends on what kind of settings your crock pot has . A low simmer on the stove is probably equivalent to something fairly low on your slow cooker , though . If all you have is warm , low , and high , you want low - in some cases it might be too hot , though . You 're aiming for just short of boiling , so a setting that gets you a few bubbles now and then is good . More than that and you 're cooking a bit vigorously , and on a " warm " setting you likely are n't heating it enough to cook properly and stay safe . If you have some kind of continuous settings , you can possibly adjust to get exactly where you want !
As far as I can see , you do n't defrost the pie before baking in the recipe so some of the time in the oven would just be defrosting the pie ; so this could be done in advance by bringing it out of the freezer an hour and a half before baking say . As the chicken is already cooked it looks like all you 're doing is cooking the pastry so you could just use thinner pastry which would cook quicker , or better you could use layers of phyllo pasty which would cook a lot quicker but of course would n't puff up like the puff pastry . If you follow this it could probably bake for just 25 minutes or there about . Hope this helps !
Cottage cheese will keep it consistent and match very well with the zucchini &amp; spices .
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
If you render out fat , there will be less fat in the final product ... it figures . Getting rid of all of the fat , is probably not possible , or desirable .
Cast iron is ideal , but any pot that can take the heat and has a tight lid will work . Like @talon8 said in his comment , it does n't even have to be metal . This article from <URL> specifically uses terracotta for sourdough , not cast iron . Just as an FYI , this related question deals with preheating ( for no-knead bread , not sourdough ) , and the differing answers are interesting . To me it just goes to show that bread-making does n't always have to follow super-strict rules . <URL>
The trick is to chill the Mars bar in a fridge for a few hours before cooking . Prepare a batter mix ( the kind you deep fry fish in ) and get your oil heated to temperature . Here 's a batter recipe I 've used before : <URL> ( You ca n't fault Delia ! ) You can use sparkling water to introduce more bubbles into the batter which gives it a nice texture . Remove the Mars Bar from the fridge and immediately coat in the batter and cook in the oil right away . Cook until the batter is golden and serve with a scoop of ice-cream . You can also do this with Snickers bars . It 's also worth trying with miniature Mars and Snickers bars . As a Scotsman I must apologise for inflicting this culinary delight on the rest of the world :)
You are looking for what is called a <URL> which is essentially a bundle of herbs tied together for easy removal . There are three basic ways to do it : For herbs like thyme or sage which are on twigs , simply tie together the twigs with some food-safe string . Wrap the bundle of herbs in cheese cloth , and and tie together Use a tea ball type device to hold the herbs . When the dish is done cooking , you can then remove the herbs all in one go simply by removing the bouqet garni .
With regard to your source that suggests adding lettuce will reduce foaming of the oil : it might be possible to use lettuce as a tool to scoop up surfactants from the surface of the oil . If you 're going to attempt it , I think the best time to do it would be when the oil is cool . An Introduction to Surface Tension Foaming is related to surface tension : for example , adding a <URL> ( such as soap in water ) to a liquid reduces its surface tension , which makes bubbles more stable . So to reduce foaming , you would need to increase the surface tension . Note that we ca n't increase surface tension by adding something to the oil : the only way to increase the surface tension of a liquid with an additive is to increase its overall density . To see why that 's the case , suppose for a moment that there were a magical substance that liked to stay on the surface of the liquid and caused higher surface tension . That higher surface tension would compress the liquid , and raise its pressure . That means any spot on the surface that had less of the substance would have less surface tension and less pressure , so the pure liquid would be pushed out of that spot and cover the surface . That process would result in the substance never actually being on the surface of the liquid , which contradicts our starting assumption , so no such substance can exist . Instead , such substances become distributed evenly throughout the interior of the liquid ... and , if they make the liquid more dense , that raises its surface tension . So , if we want to increase the surface tension of aging oil , the only way we can do that is by removing surfactants from the oil , assuming we do n't want to mix the oil with large quantities of something more dense . Surface Tension and Frying As J. B. Rossell explains in <URL> ( with credit to BaffledCook for finding the source ) , surface tension is very important in deep fat frying , beyond just the idea of foaming . Initially , oil for deep fat frying tends to undercook ( or takes longer to cook ) food , because few surfactants are present in fresh oil . Due to the high surface tension , the oil is less often in direct contact with the food being fried ( as little as 10 % of the time it is submerged ) , which means less heat transfer by conduction , less of a crust , and less oil present in the final product . As the oil gradually breaks down with repeated cooking , surfactants build up in the oil , reaching an ideal range which gives the preferred golden crust and moderate greasiness , with oil being in contact with the food between 20 % and 50 % of the time it is submerged . When the oil goes bad , the high quantity of surfactants results in too much contact between the oil and the food , resulting in greasy food that is overcooked on the outside and undercooked on the inside , and may have a bad flavor due to the rancidity of the oil , or contamination from the food being fried . Removing Surfactants First of all , I want to say that I 'm not sure I 'm in favor of trying to prolong the life of frying oil beyond its natural lifetime : the breakdown of the oil results in potentially cancer-causing free radicals , so I 'd rather err on the side of replacing the oil too often , especially if I 'm cooking for myself or loved ones . If you were going to re-use the oil anyway , you might be able to reduce the amount of oil that gets into your food by reducing the quantity of surfactants , but if you 're debating saving money by using your fry oil longer than you normally would , I 'd say a bottle of oil is cheaper than a trip to the oncologist 's office . Speaking of cost , I think a bottle of most oils used for frying is also cheaper than a head of lettuce , so I 'm not sure how economically viable this strategy is . That said , since surfactants ( SURface ACTive AgeNTS ) are attracted to the surface of the liquid ( they find a lower energy state by decreasing the energy of the boundary between two liquids or a liquid and a gas ) , they can potentially be removed by skimming ( or just pouring ) them off the surface . ( I expect putting the oil in a narrow bottle and pouring off some of the oil from the top would be a more economically viable solution to remove surfactants . ) Because crinkly lettuce leaves have a high surface area , its possible that just dipping lettuce in the oil and drawing it out might remove a significant amount of surfactant , especially if the surface area of the lettuce leaf is high in comparison to the surface area of the pot that the oil is in : the surfactant will attempt to spread evenly across the entire surface of the oil . If we assume the surfactant is attracted only to the oil/air boundary ( note : I have no knowledge of whether this is actually the case , or whether the material of the container matters ) , then when a lettuce leaf with a surface area equal to the surface area of the oil/air boundary is dipped into the oil , and then slowly removed , the oil covering the top of the pot and the oil covering the lettuce leaf will have roughly equal su
end question
start question
Chicken in Tin Foil in the Oven : Any tips or advices on spices or wrapping ?
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
So , there 's no method to get sugar out of milk , as far as I know . You can look for milk products where some of the sugar is used up ( fermented , like Chris H mentioned ) , but this will significantly change taste and texture - sugar is a major part of what milk is , fats and sugars and proteins , and you 're removing most of the actual substance . You 're likely to do better with an unsweetened nut milk or rice milk , especially if you make your own so you can tweak to taste . These may have more fats , depending on your choice of recipe , but will likely have sugar closer to your desired range One thing you might try , if you 're really determined , is to dilute your milk ( maybe up to half ) and add artificial sweeteners . You 'll still get some of the flavor components from the added milk , and some sweetening to make up the difference in taste , but there will be less sugar because the actual amount of milk is less . Hopefully the added artificial sweetener might make it taste less watery , but maybe add just a half a pinch of salt if it still tastes too thin . in the end , ~ 6g sugar per cup , I guess ? Another possibility is to use unflavored whey powder to flavor the diluting water ( again , probably no more than half of your " milk " ) , then adding artificial sweetener to taste . The whey should have some of the flavors from the proteins in milk , and at least from the powder I checked it does n't have much of the sugar or fat you 're objecting to . It might help the diluted milk taste less watery . ~ 7g sugar , because I think the whey powder has a gram and a half per serving . Final possibility I thought of - you can maybe grab some creamer powder and use that to flavor your diluted milk ( again , not more than half and sweeten to taste ) . Or even use it on its own , if the flavor works for you . The amount of sugar is n't stated , but it has to be under 1g because that 's all the carbs there are per serving - though it does add a half gram of fat back in .
You said that you 're using deep pans to get the right shape for decorating . If you 're using something deeper than the recipe calls for , you should expect to have trouble . It will take longer to bake through , while the top and bottom overcook , and if you 've gone too far , the structure may not hold up as well during baking . You can probably get away with something 25-50 % taller than the recipe is meant for , baking longer at a lower temperature , but in general , you should really try to use the correct size pan , and make multiple layers if you want something taller . Wrong sized pans aside , reducing the temperature is definitely the best first thing to try . In pretty much all types of cooking , burning some parts before cooking others is a sign of too much heat . You should also check the temperature of your oven . Ovens thermostats can easily be significantly off . If you 're having this problem with multiple recipes , it 's plausible that yours is too hot . Depending on the source of your recipe , it 's also possible that whoever wrote it was compensating for a too-cold oven . Also , make sure that the cake is centered in the oven . The top of the oven is hotter , and too high a rack can definitely cause overbrowning on the top . Of course , if you lower it too much , you may overcook the bottom . Shielding the top with foil is also very effective . If it 's just that this is a particularly sensitive cake , I 'd definitely try loosely covering with foil . Protecting the pie crusts is such a common version of this that you can buy pie shields , rings of metal to cover just the outside edge . I would n't try to turn your oven into a steam oven for this ; steaming will affect the texture of the surface of the cake .
After that long , the beans are almost certainly stale . While it 's true that <URL> , four to ten years is very long time to age coffee and the opinions on aged coffee seem to be mixed at best . I say toss 'em , although you could compost them or even use them for arts and crafts , I would n't recommend them for human consumption . It 's doubtful that anyone would be harmed , seeing as <URL> and that would keep any ' ick ' from developing , it probably would n't be a very enjoyable cup of coffee .
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
I believe that a pan needs to get very hot for damage to occur - 500c is the number I found for <URL> specifically , and carbon steel would be <URL> up similar temperatures , I do n't have numbers for copper or other metals pots can be made of offhand but the point stands - it will take very high temperatures to effect a metal pan to the point where it warps or alters itself , and the pan should be safe at any temperature you would be cooking food at . You should be able to heat the pan to those temperatures before any adverse reactions can begin to occur . On the other hand , it is very difficult to tell how hot a dry pan actually is - it may be too easy to misjudge the safe heat , to let the pan get hot enough to warp or scorch the seasoning or burn whatever is added or worse , suffer thermal shock when something is finally put in the pan . A pan with water in it wo n't rise above 100c until the water 's gone , and while oil wo n't keep the temp low like water will , it will change as it heats , and can provide some warning that the pan is getting too hot before it reaches a point where the pan is damaged - even if that warning , at the last , is the oil smoking or scorching . Thicker pans should fare a little better , since they take a bit longer to heat , and can distribute the heat more evenly , and they 're also sturdier and might resist warping because of that - but thin pans can get very hot on the contact points , and will bend or warp more easily . Also , with a dry pan the possibility of thermal shock is higher - in a pan with liquid in it , the water or oil acts as a good medium to transfer heat through , sort of like a buffer for temperature change , so if something cold ( er ) gets added to a hot pan , the oil or water will transfer heat into it and out of the hot pan and liquid , much more evenly , and stabilize the temperature faster . In a dry pan , the heat will transfer only at the point of contact , and fast , so a dry pan will undergo stress at the point of contact much more . Also , adding the water or oil you need to cook with itself can become a source of thermal shock if the dry pan had gotten too hot on the stove , so adding room temperature liquid might cause the pan damage as the heat flows out suddenly and unevenly , pans have cracked under such stresses . In the end , I think you can certainly put your pans on the stove without any contents , and have the pan come out undamaged even if had been heated quite a bit - but you have to be careful and skilled not to overheat your pans too much , and that can be tricky to gauge with a dry pan . On the other hand , having water or oil in the pan will keep the temperature low or warn you when it is overheating , so it is just a little bit safer ( and so probably good advice ) .
Just because the recipe calls it an " omelette " does n't make it one . An omelette starts and ends its cooking in a pan . If you finish it in the oven , it becomes a frittata . ( There are a couple of historic differences , but let 's just stick with that . ) If the egg mixture both starts and finishes in the oven it would probably be a crust-less quiche . The benefits of cooking in the oven is the ability to get more even cooking of the eggs to get a more consistent texture throughout .
You can put things in the cavity to help flavor the chicken as well . A bundle of fresh herbs , garlic , an onion , fresh fruit , etc. . Stuffing from a cavity is divine though , do n't knock it until you 've tried it !
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
General comments on the shelf - , fridge - , and freezer-life of foods The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use . It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation ( no longer tasty ) or food safety ( risk of food poisoning ) . [ <URL> ] As far as food safety goes , food stored frozen at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or below is remains safe forever ; only quality degrades over time . [ <URL> ] . Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality . If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18 ° C ( three-star setting ) , these times may not apply . Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers ( -6 ° C ) is much reduced . The times all assume proper storage . Freezers 0 ° F or below , refrigerators 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . [ <URL> ] Cans should be stored in a cool , dry place , below 85 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The tables given here assume proper storage . Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41 -- 135 ° F ( 5 -- 57 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The Tables Regardless of the table below , if a food shows signs of spoilage ( including mold , with some exceptions described below ) , its past its shelf-life . Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety . Uncooked Proteins Cooked proteins Dairy Sauces For home-made mayo , there do n't seem to be official shelf-life estimates . Seasoned Advice has a question on this , <URL> . Vegetables Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched , then frozen . Generally , this is required , otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each vegetable . Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . Fruits Many fruits must be at least partially cooked ( blanched ) before freezing in order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in storage . Some are best frozen packed in acid ( lemon juice or citric acid ) and/or syrup . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each fruit . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . * : bananas stored in the fridge will blacken . This is not a sign of spoilage , and they can be eaten safely . Cooked dishes Generally 3 -- 4 days in the fridge . This includes pizza , soups , stews , casseroles , pies , and quiche [ KC ] . Some salads get a fifth day [ CFG ] . Freezer time is generally under three months . Infused oils Putting any plant matter in oil ( such as garlic , chillies or herbs ) creates the danger for botulism , a rare but fatal disease . Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable . They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days , discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles . Or buy commercially produced infused oils , they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores . Shelf-stable until opened Pantry ( not refrigerated even after opening ) General tips for storing foods How do I freeze fruits and vegetables ? Fruit . Ripe ( but not overripe ) fruit should be used . Wash them , and sort according to size . Working in small batches , remove pits , seeds , and blemishes . For fruits that turn brown , apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid . Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup . Small , whole fruits ( e.g. , berries ) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen , then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container . Vegetables . Most vegetables need blanching . To blanch , immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water ( steam ) . After blanching , transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched . Drain and dry . Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed , or by allowing to freeze on a tray , then putting in a bag or other container . General guideline is 8 -- 12 months for best quality . The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University 's <URL> . The five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables . Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide does n't answer your question . What about mold ? Some foods are expected to have mold in them ( e.g. , P. roqueforti in Roquefort cheese ) . Unexpected mold , however , is something to be concerned about . Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods , and even those high enough in salt or sugar to deter bacteria . Some molds produce mycotoxins . Mold growth can be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months ( use a mixture of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water , then rinse with plain water , then dry ) , by keeping dishcloths , sponges , mops , etc. clean and fresh-smelling ; and keeping indoor humidity levels under 40 % . In general , the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the actual mold growth . For most foods , any visible unexpected mold grow
I make garlic paste quite often , using this technique I saw on Bobby Flay . Put the whole clove on the board . Lay knife flat , and smack it with your hand . Remove paper and root . Dice finely . Sprinkle with the quantity of salt your recipe calls for . With the knife relatively flat , grind the garlic into the salt with the knife . Typically , I 'll make a pass in one direction with the edge on the board , leading with the spine , and then come back with the spine on the board , leading with the edge . You need a wide knife ( at least a french chef 's knife , cleaver or santuko ) in order to keep your fingers out of danger . I apply the downward pressure with the top of my palm , with my fingers curled back . Check this for a similar technique - <URL> ( The mincing starts around 2:40 After 5 or 6 passes , you should have a nice fine paste .
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
Flat-leaf ( also called Italian Parsley ) and curly parsley can be used interchangeably but most chefs prefer flat leaf as it usually has a more distinct taste . That is going to be up to you and your preference . Curly parsley provides a more unique and visually interesting look when you 're talking about garnishes but putting a sprig of parsley on a plate is what would be called a " non-functional " garnish . Aside from adding a bit of green it serves no purpose as very few people I know will pop it in their mouth and eat it . You 're better to sprinkle with chopped parsley or herbs that can help enhance/accent the flavor . Curly parsley is also visually appealing used in a parsley salad due again to the ruffled edges . I usually use flat-leaf if available , then curly if flat-leaf is n't available . Under no circumstances ( except if you just need a touch of green dust ) do I recommend using dried parsley . Clippings from the underside of yor lawn-mower probably have more flavor . Same goes for dried chives .
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
end question
start question
Is there a definitive measure of completed lacto fermentation ?
Well , if you really want a " definitive " way to measure when lactic fermentation is complete , you 'd have to do a laboratory test directly for residual sugars . Most traditional foods that are lactic-acid fermented do n't have enough sugar to reach a final acidity that will self-limit continued fermentation by killing all the bacteria . ( Foods with too much sugar also often tend to spontaneously undergo yeast fermentation and lead to alcohol production instead if not monitored . ) Given the wide variety of fermentation products that can result from initial ingredients and different fermentation conditions , it 's really difficult to come up with some sort of " test strip " or something for residual sugar that is accurate . Home fermenters rarely bother with such things , but large-scale commercial fermentation sometimes tests residual sugar content for batches to ensure shelf-stability . That said , a specific recipe with specific starting ingredients will often have a target pH range , depending on the quantity of sugar in the ingredients , the amount of salt ( which in excess will inhibit further fermentation ) , desired flavor , etc. . The composition of the ingredients will determine the mininum possible pH when fermentation is effectively complete . The desired pH of lacto-fermented foods can vary anywhere from about 3.0 ( even down to ~ 2.75 for some sweet relishes ) to 4.5 ( more common in grain-based ferments , or quick-fermented vegetables meant to be used up quickly ) . To answer the specific question for sauerkraut , I 'd say most people would say sauerkraut fermentation is " complete " when a pH of ~ 3.5 or below is reached ( though opinions may vary ) . Part of the difficulty in answering the question is that home fermentation is often done with the intention of keeping the food " alive " even when it is consumed , which means fermentation will still be ongoing . In most traditional food cultures around the word , lactic acid fermentation is often deliberately incomplete , only used for a short period to transform an ingredient and then use it within a dish for consumption . This contrasts with much alcohol production , where continued fermentation in your final product can obviously create various difficulties for bottling , proper aging , etc. . And some people just prefer food at various earlier stages in the fermentation process . To take sauerkraut as an example , a pH of 4.0-4 .5 will be achieved rather quickly ( usually within a few days , depending on temperature , salt content , etc. ) . Some people prefer the taste of a fresher , crunchier product , and they may only ferment for a few days and then refrigerate to slow down fermentation significantly . Other people like to go much further and will ferment sauerkraut anywhere from a month to several months , again depending on temperature -- to achieve a final pH below 3.5 and even down to ~ 3.0 . Over time , the final product will obviously get more sour , but it will also soften and various nutritional changes will take place . It 's all a matter of preference when done at home . Lastly , in reference to the " lagering " aspect of the question , I think the closest analog in lacto-fermentation is the fact that various processes ( and various bacteria ) will work better at different temperatures . A higher temperature fermentation , for example , may result in a greater acetic acid component in the final ingredients , enhancing the " sharp " vinegar notes . At lower temperatures other bacteria may become more prominent in the fermentation , and in some temperature ranges enzymes and natural ( spoilage ) reactions may help to change flavor and texture too . Anyhow , for these reasons , some people prefer to refrigerate fermented foods or hold them for a while at " cold cellar " temperatures to allow these " aging " mechanisms to work as bacteria slow down ( analogous to lagering ) . Whether this is done after fermentation is effectively complete or at an earlier stage when the food is less sour again depends on individual preference .
Sort of . If you have sesame seeds on hand , grind some up . You could also use toasted sesame oil , and even combine it with the ground seeds . You can also use all-natural peanut butter . Do n't use mass market crap with sugar and other additives . The ingredients should list only : peanuts , salt . Obviously , this will taste like peanuts . It will still taste good in a hummus , but it will be a distinctly different hummus than with tahini .
is it solely by virtue of its acidic content ? Yes , not a lot of biochemistry is happy living at pH 2 - and the stuff that can live there is already happily living in your gut with a ph of 1 is there a kind of ratio ( or other metric ) of vinegar to know whether something needs to be refrigerated to keep from spoiling ? You mean foods already packaged in vinegar ? It would depend on how well they had been cooked/sterilized before packaging and how strong the vinegar is . Industrially made pickles will be a lot cleaner than something you pickle at home , but store bought pickles are likely to use much cheaper , more dilute vinegar than your grandmother did . what components can act to counteract vinegar 's ability to preserve food ? Anything too alkali will neutralise the vinegar 's acidity can vinegar stabilize anything that otherwise would spoil ? Not necessarily , it has to be something where the vinegar can penetrate into the food - it 's not going to preserve steaks as well as vegetables . And of course the vinegar taste is going to help if you are trying to preserve say strawberries ! Also fungal spores can probably survive dormant in vinegar ( if not grow ) - fungal spores can survive dormant pretty much anything .
Cut out any green parts then remove the skin . If you can see any remaining green parts after the skin is removed then cut them out too . What you 'll have at this point will likely look and feel like any other peeled potato except with bits cut out . If it still feels soft or looks unusual throw it out , otherwise its fine . Just a normal potato whose skin had gone a bit wrinkly and soft .
One resource I 'm impressed with is <URL> , which is an " online cooking school " with truly excellent video content . ( Disclosure : I 'm an affiliate , though I have n't earned anything from it - I only signed up because I think it is great , I do n't refer anything just to hope to make a buck ) . That link will give you a 14 day free trial . The thing I like is that it is broken down into really small , highly detailed sections , and the video is HD and shot extremely close up on the hands and pots so you can really see what is happening .
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
The weight of flour varies immensely depending on how densely it 's packed and the humidity . If you 've started with a weight-based recipe , I 'd try to find a scale . If that 's absolutely not an option , I tend to approximate 100g = 1 cup . Be warned , I 've found some recipes that are really sensitive to the amount of flour and the difference between a lightly sifted cup and a scooped cup can really throw off the results . You might do better to try to divide another kg package of flour evenly and use the approximation that 0.6 lb is about 0.25 kg ( i.e. one quarter of the bag ) .
While I suppose this is technically possible , I would never consider trying to make this substitution . Muffins are are form of quick bread . Their structure is based on gelatinized starch from the flour , leavened by chemical leavers such as baking powder or baking soda . In chiffon cakes , sponge cakes , and angel food cakes , the whipped egg whites or meringue form the primary basis of the structure as a foam with mechanically beaten in air . These batters are much much thinner than quick bread batters , generally , so that the other ingredients can be folded with the egg whites while maintaining the foam . Instead , I suggest you take a different approach : Find a better quick bread recipe -- there are many , many good <URL> recipes easily searchable . If you do n't find a muffin recipe you like , you can always use any banana bread recipe for muffins as well , since quick breads and muffins are the same thing , just baked in different shapes . Find a recipe for a <URL> or <URL> . You can always bake these recipes in cupcake form if you like . Finding a good coherent recipe will almost certainly by easier than trying to adapt a muffin recipe you are not happy with into something else . If you are really wanting to transform recipes more generally , you need to learn the basis on which they work . You might want to read <URL> , as a starting point -- however , the ratios of ingredients are only part of the story . The other part of the story is the method or technique by which they are prepared . In the world of cakes and muffins and quick breads , these include the muffin method , the creaming method , the <URL> , and -- I do n't know a general name for this method -- but the whipped egg whites folded with other ingredients technique . Each of these methods works optimally with different ratios of ingredients , but also achieves different outcomes with the same ingredients . So you would have to analyze the individual recipe , adjust the ratio of ingredients , and possibly modify the method by which the ingredients are prepared or combined . Frankly , to lighten a muffin recipe , I would first ask : are you measuring correctly ? Too much flour is going to lead to a dense outcome , and flour is very easy to mismeasure . I would suggest always baking by weight , not volume when you can . Reputable recipe sites for baked goods will tell you the weight of flour in addition to the volume measurement , or at least tell you what the standard weight of a cup of flour is . If no such guide is provided , I find that using a 4.5 oz ( US ) standard cup for flour is pretty generally successful . My second approach would be to very , very slightly increase the amount of baking powder , maybe by 1/4 tsp increments in two different trials . If that fails , you might try reducing the flour by 25 % or 50 % , but not increasing the number of eggs ; instead , change your method from the muffin method to the whipped egg white method , separating the eggs , whipping the egg whites , and then folding them into the other wet ingredients , then gently folding in the dry ingredients . Still , when you do these kinds of changes , you need to test your recipes , keep careful notes , and so on . I still would start by researching already tested recipes that achieve the outcome you desire .
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
How much is too much is a totally subjective thing . Yes , there is such a thing as too much , but where that point is will vary among tasters . There is no objective question here to answer . No one answer to the question will be " correct " . I really like vanilla , and I like flavors to be on the rich side , so I tend to be a bit heavy-handed with vanilla . A few ( very few ) times I have been surprised to have that heavy-handedness criticized . Why would they not like my amazing vanilla ice cream ? They experience vanilla differently than I do . What is ideal for me may be overdone , even cloying , to my neighbor . So , when it comes to various flavorings ( vanilla is just one of many ) , get to know your own " likes " and what your audience likes . After that , you can ignore what the recipe says and just do what feels right to you , knowing your audience and the potency of your ingredients as well .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
In this <URL> video he uses a " knob " of butter . It appears to be about 2 Tbsp . I do n't think it 's intended to be a specific term . You 'd never see " knob " used for baking , where exact amounts matter . When cooking , recipes tend to be a general guideline rather than a strict set of instructions .
A bunch of spinach usually weighs something like 250-500 grams . My best guess is that something like half that is the stems , which can easily be as long as the leaves . So very roughly , I 'd say a bunch is 125-250 grams . Alternately , if you want to go by volume ( e.g. if your store has bulk loose baby spinach ) , think of a bunch as something like a head of lettuce , except with the bottom third to half mostly stems . Full-size spinach also definitely gets a lot better than 4x6 cm leaves , so you may still be using somewhat more tender baby spinach , but that of course wo n't cause you any problems . ( The stems on baby spinach are tender enough to eat , especially when blending , so you can use everything in your bags . ) In any case , smoothies are really forgiving - not only do you not need a lot of precision , but you can just add and blend until the color and flavor look how you want !
425 & deg ; F is so hot that it will surely burn over-do the outside of a ham before the inside will get warm . However , you can slice the ham then warm it for about 10 minutes . Slicing it will allow the whole slice to get warm , while not over-cooking the outside .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
According to <URL> , industrial and food grade CO2 generally come from the same plants : The slight difference between industrial-grade CO2 and food-grade CO2 is the type of tests that are done to qualify CO2 as beverage or beer gas-grade compared to industrial-grade . Currently , the FDA 's requirement for food-grade CO2 a 99.90 % purity rating . The other .09 % is made up of impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . Industrial grade CO2 is 99 % pure CO2 , also containing impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . However , the nature of those impurities extremely important . They go on to suggest : One impurity that all homebrewers should be aware of is benzene . Benzene is a no-no for homebrewers . If the CO2 that you are purchasing has high benzene levels , it will leave you and fellow drinkers with terrible headaches . When I say high levels , we are not talking about much . Benzene is usually an impurity that is referred to in PPB . The benzene level should be around 20 PPB . They suggest you ask for a profile of the impurities , although I suspect that Dick 's will be unable to comply . You will have to assess your own tolerance for risk , but you may better off seeking a more appropriate local vendor .
There are many , many ways to make lasagna , so there can not be one single answer . You have to ask yourself , what is the goal of a good lasagna ? It is not to feature the individual components that make up the layers , but rather to have a cohesive , unified experience . The order layering is more for visual effect than to control how the ingredients taste . However , if the contribution of your other ingredients is not coming through , they may not be bold enough to stand up to the cheeses , pasta , and sauces ( none of which are usually very bold ) and still hold their own . Some of the common accent ingredients in lasgana commonly include : Bolognese sauce , or another ragu type sauce , with a strong , meaty flavor from long cooking . A spicy sausage or salumi Also , make sure each component is properly and individually seasoned , to taste its best . Each component should also be treated properly to bring out its best flavor ( long slow braising for ragu , good browning for sausage , and so on ) . These ingredients are aggressively flavored , and while they should n't dominate the casserole , they should come through as part of the overall flavor .
Do you have a large plastic container ? Something like this : . Use a non-permanent marker on the outside to mark the initial volume . A small diameter will make it easier to monitor the volume .
Assuming you 're using spices which are all dried and ground , there should be no problem . In the middle-east , there are always several spice mixtures available in shops . The most famous of which are Ras-al-Hanout and Baharat . These are spice mixtures sold as pre-mixed combinations by the shopkeeper , who is usually the one who grinds the spices .
We get a bushel of apples every year and make and freeze pies . We do a double crust without problem . We put a couple of tablespoons of flour on the bottom for the juices , but we do that for fresh pie as well . We use tin and pyrex , whatever we can get our hands on . The main concerns we have is the apples juicing too much in the pie , so we assemble and freeze them as fast as possible . ( And we made 18 two weeks ago Saturday ) so every time one is done we run it down to the freeze to freeze it immediately , we freeze them uncooked . Do n't thaw the pie as again the fruit will have time to juice . We unwrap it ( we wrap ours in plastic wrap and then foil to protect the foil from some of the acidic fruits ) and put it in the cold oven and start cooking it as normal . My family has frozen , apricot , apple , and blackberry . Also when doing the pies en mass like this , we roll our open crusts for the holidays as well , since the mess is already made . These are for the pumpkin , banana , and chocolate pies . The crusts alone we do let thaw before cooking , as they cook so fast .
end question
start question
How do I cook with bay leaves ?
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
Yeah , syrup can ferment + convert sugar to alcohol . It has more of a tendency to do so if the sugar content is lower -- I tend to err on the side of overconcentrating my syrup . You can try boiling it for a while to see if the alcohol boils off + if the flavor is OK then use it ... but I 'd boil down a bit more first , to make sure the sugar content is back up to standards . Either boil until the boiling point is 7 degrees F higher than the boiling point of water at your altitude , or boil until the syrup " aprons " ( e.g. starts to drip in a sheet rather than discrete drops ; a flat edge of a metal spatula works well ) , with the former being more accurate if you have a good thermometer . If the flavor remains after boiling , then try using in recipes -- perhaps in brownies/blondies or with ice cream .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
You have two delicious choices . Both require a bed of coals , so I 'll start with that . You 'll need to build a fire with the logs stacked ' log cabin ' style , and let the fire burn down to coals . You want a deep red coal , just starting to darken on top . The coals should look something like this . You can bake , or bbq the chicken and asparagus . Both are delicious methods . To bake , wrap the chicken , asparagus and a starch like potato gratin style in layers of tinfoil . Use the starch around the outside , you 'll sacrifice a layer of it as some of it sticks/burns to the tinfoil . Put the most delicate item in the middle , in this case the asparagus , and the chicken around the asparagus . Add a generous amount of butter , salt and pepper and bake for about an hour buried in the coals . Corn or green beans are also very good , and can be sacrificed a little around the outside to preserve your meat and vegetables . I would layer it this way . Now , BBQ . You 'll do it very much like a charcoal BBQ . Keep the grate close to the coals , you can generally test the heat by holding your hand above the grate , you should only be able to keep your hand there for a second or two at most . Grill the chicken like you would on a bbq , and roast the asparagus on a cooler part of the grill . I 'd marinate both before putting them on the grill . I 'd also try to get an aromatic wood like hickory or mesquite , pine will impart a resinous taste .
If it 's fresh Trout with the skin on then yes , rinse the slime off . If it was frozen then you might have another problem ...
Usually when I 've made them I just put sauce on top , not on the bottom , and just down the middle so the edges are exposed . And I make the sauce on the thick side so it is not too watery . I bake them in the oven too , and they are never too soggy , but you could just grill to minimise the sauce absorption . I 've heard that corn tortillas are more resistant to going soggy than flour ones , but could n't comment from experience .
The use-by dates on all spices are mainly hokum . Most spices last for six months in whole form , herbs can be dried and last about three , after that time the taste is going to weaken and change as essential oils leave the spice . If you keep your spices in an airtight dark container you can eek out a little more time , but I would highly recommend that if you want fresh spices you grind yourself and keep fresh herbs on hand ( it 's very little work to grow your own ) . That said , bay leaves last me quite a while , and even after I know they should be retired I tend to just throw more of them in the pot to achieve the same effect .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
Fenugreek seeds are intensely aromatic and go quite nicely in curries , and any dish where such a flavour is required . In the middle-east they use it quite a lot , often as a condiment . Highly used in spice rubs , pickles , marinades , anything where a strong spice flavour is required and often in puddings as an aromatic like nutmeg is used in English cooking . The leaves have a similar flavour , but not quite the same , you could use the seeds in their place adding them in to the spice mix if there is one , but the leaves I prefer personally . The flavour of methi leaves in thepla or in curry is wonderful in my opinion .
Beans split because the seed coat is n't soft enough when the interior of the bean rehydrates . Two factors that can help ease this problem : soak your beans to make sure the seed coat is well rehydrated when the bean interior cooks . This is the big one - heavily salt your soaking water . The salt ions will replace calcium in the bean skins and soften them . You will have magically whole beans . Refer to <URL> on chili which contains this image : <URL>
The most recent Cook 's Illustrated has a cinnamon swirl bread article that discusses this problem . According to them , the root cause is a lack of binding between the dough and filling . Gas from the yeast , and steam generated during baking , push into the spiral , creating pressure that compresses the dough and widens the gap . In the specific case of cinnamon bread , they recommend using powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar instead of granulated , and using a large amount of cinnamon . The finer sugar dissolves more easily in moisture from the bread , quickly creating a paste that is reinforced by the cornstarch and by starches in the ground cinnamon . Misting the bread before adding the filling also helps . In order to make a sausage filling adhere to the bread , you would need a sticky , water-soluble element . Cornstarch or powdered gelatin spring to mind immediately as possibilities . The other tactic they employ is to actually expose the filling during proofing , preventing the yeast 's gas ( and later , steam ) from building up alongside the filling . Once the filling is rolled into the dough , the loaf is cut in half lengthwise . With the two halves laid side-by-side , cut face up ( exposing the filling ) , they are wound around each other , folding the left piece over the right until the end is reached ( this is called a " Russian braid " ) . The ends are pinched together , and the loaf is placed in the pan to proof . This , obviously , should help with any kind of filling , not just cinnamon sugar .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
You can not easily cool and reheat a decent sized lasagna in 3 to 4 hours and get down to 4C for any length of time to make it worthwhile It was mostly sterile from the baking process . If you leave the oven door closed it will stay clean and warm for a few hours . Simply be re-heated 30 minutes before serving . You could under-cook it slightly to allow for this , but for lasagna is usually improves with more cooking You could also consider leaving the oven on low , and keeping it hot till serving time . This may degrade some foods , it depends on what 's in it . Keep it above 70C ( 160F )
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
I am not familiar with nopales , but I would be astonished if their green color was determined by something else than chlorophyll . Chlorophyll is usually destroyed by normal cooking techniques . If you want to keep the color mostly green ( some dulling is inevitable ) : cook the vegetable in an alkaline fluid . The easiest way is to use water with some baking soda added . The problem here is that humans like food which is slightly acidic , and alkaline food tastes soapy . Also , vegetable fibers soften more easily in alkaline environments , so they will be somewhat mushy . So use a very small amount . If they are to be added to a dish which is acidic ( in a Mexican dish , the culprit will probably be tomatoes ) , cook the green vegetable separately , and only combine it with the rest of the dish at the last possible moment . Right before serving is best . Heat destroys chlorophyll too . Cook the green vegetable as short as possible . Blanching is perfect , do n't forget the ice bath at the end . It will probably be enough as a preparation method . While I do n't know how hard a nopale is , I find blanching to be quite sufficient even for broccoli ( provided the water contained either salt or baking soda ) , and their stems are one of the woodiest things we eat . If you do n't think they are softened enough after blanching , cook them longer , until you find they are sufficiently softened .
If you have one , a potato ricer is very effective at removing moisture from things that do n't drain effectively with gravity alone , e.g. sauerkraut , cooked spinach , salted cabbage , salted squash/marrow , etc. . In my experience , it 's more effective , and easier to clean , than a salad spinner . <URL> ( For best results , look for the kind that 's pictured above , with holes only on the bottom , not the sides . Otherwise , you 're liable to end up shooting sauerkraut juice halfway across your kitchen . )
end question
start question
What is a Hostess Set of flatware ?
<URL> What is in a Hostess Set , Serving Set and an Entertainment Set ? A simple way to remember what pieces are in a Hostess Set is : The word Hostess starts with an " H " everything in a Hostess Set holds something . Hostess Set : Gravy Ladle , Tablespoon , Sugar Spoon Serving Set : Serving Fork , Butter Knife , Pierced Tablespoon Entertainment Set : Casserole Spoon , Dessert Server
It is certainly a fermentation . A simple chemical neutralization would n't need that much time , and would n't produce lasting fizz . You can be certain that there are wild yeasts everywhere : in the air in your kitchen , on your elderflower , probably on your utensils , etc. . It is impossible to say which ones prevailed in the fermentation , the ones you brought in with the elderflower or the ones which came into it from some other sources .
Ok - finally got it open ! While googling , I came across a suggestion to cover the lid with a plastic glove and use that for traction . Not sure if it was the combination of running under hot water + the glove , or if the glove would 've worked on it 's own , but it 's open now :)
I believe it 's another name for the tenderloin . <URL> Also , if you check out this other fillet of beef recipe from the same show : <URL> You can see a much better picture of the meat . That one is clearly a tenderloin . So The Fillet Mignon is part of that technically ...
High fructose corn syrup is a preservative . While sugaring your ketchup is good for flavor , HFCS is great for shelf stability , as is the vinegar . The reasons you typically see HFCS in American Ketchups is that it is ( 1 ) heavily subsidized and domestic and cheap , ( 2 ) farmed by the same companies making the tomatoes , and ( 3 ) a preservative . Also , it helps to improve flow while maintaining viscosity . Sugar generally can be used to cut the acidity in a tomato dish without inhibiting the taste or outshining the tomato . My stepfather had digestion issues with high acidity meals and swore by a teaspoon or two of sugar to help aid the stomach issues . Likewise , the acidity of ketchup may well be mitigated by all the sugar .
So risotto is pretty much a blank canvas , much like say rice or pasta . So your first concern is simply to pick ingredients that go with each other . For example : tomato &amp; corn risotto , good . Tomato and chocolate risotto : bad . Second , you may want to choose a broth , cheese , and optional wine that goes well with your choice of main ingredients . Third , because risotto is Italian in origin , the most certain combinations will be those classic Mediterranean flavors . You are n't going to go wrong with say asparagus and olives , or artichokes , peas and lemon . When you start making Thai risottos , you are farther out on a limb . Finally , much of the pleasure of a risotto is in the rice itself , when properly prepared . That pleasure is fairly delicate in nature , so for maximum enjoyment you should choose reasonably delicate ingredients and/or use them in relatively small quantities .
There are many reasons for having a blender with selectable speeds : 1 ) Not every time you want to liquify or make a mush of your food ; quite the opposite , usually you want to keep a bit of texture into what you are blending . Thus , lower speed is better . 2 ) Blending heat up your ingredients , either by the friction of the blades and by the heating of the blender engine itself . Now , while it 's pretty difficult to ruin oils or many other things with the blender temperature , vegetables and fruits on the other hand are really sensible . So , as a generic rule of thumb , you always want to start with the lowest speed and then raise it up step by step ( my blender used to have 5 speed settings , for examples ) just as necessary . No point in running the blender at max speed by default . 3 ) The blender 's engine is built to blend things , and as obvious as it may sounds is maybe less obvious that the engine is not expected to runs free blending the air , because it can quickly burn and ruin itself : it actually needs ( and expect ) some kind of resistance from the food it 's blending . So , when you blend big and/or hard things , it 's advisable to do some on/first ( this is the reason for the pulse mode ) , then raise the speed , to not overheat the blender and to not give the blades too much energy . For example , if you are blending chickpeas , as they are pretty heavy and big if you go immediately at the highest speed all you will get will be chickpeas being hitten by the blades and just bouncing all around . If you lower the speed , the impact between the blades and the chickpeas will be less energic and the blades will have a chance to at least begin to scratch them ;-)
The folks at America 's Test Kitchen did a <URL> and found that the burr mills did n't result in superior consistency to blade grinders . They found that if you stop grinding every now and then and shake the coffee grinder and grind for a total of 25-30 seconds , you get the best results . From the video review : " Lots of people said that these blade grinders chop the beans unevenly . They also said they heat up the beans more because of the friction and that degraded the flavor of coffee . I had dozens of people tasting this coffee and no one picked up flavor differences between the blade-ground and the burr-ground . There were differences in the body but not the flavor ... and we found a way to use the blade grinders to match that body . From the text review : " We found we could improve the evenness of the blade grind either by grinding in short , quick bursts , with stops in between to shake the grinder to redistribute the grounds , or by shaking the grinder as it ground , much as you would a martini in a cocktail shaker . " Their favorite was the Capresso Cool Grind , Model 501 . They did note that you will need a burr grinder for espresso .
Oh absolutely , you certainly do n't want to sharpen a kitchen knife on a 200 grit stone ! You 'll want one medium stone in case you ever need to remove a nick or something ( but then you should probably take your knife to a pro at that point ) , and then probably like 2000-4000-6000 grits for routine polishing . ( Note Japanese grit numbers are different than American oil stones ) .
There are a number of sites that provide diagrams and information on the different cuts , one fairly extensive resource is <URL> Edit : Made a change due to comment .
It is used extensively in Indian cooking . I have one book , <URL> that calls for it in virtually every recipe , and each time reminds you to cut the amount down by 3/4 's if you ca n't find Yellow Cobra brand . It does indeed have a flavor someone reminiscent of aged garlic . It is thought to have medicinal value as well ( see the wikipedia article for details ) .
In this case , inoculation refers to the introduction of yoghurt bacteria ( <URL> ) that transform the milk into yoghurt . If anything goes wrong - from unclean conditions that let other bacteria grow to unfavourable temperatures that inhibit the proper growth of your desired lactobacillae - you speak of improper inoculation . The effects on taste and possibly food-safety have been discussed in your linked posts . So work in a clean environment , use a good strain of bacteria and maintain the recommended temperature range to prevent this .
There are several things that keep frozen desserts ( ice cream and sorbet , not just sherbet ) from freezing into a block of ice . They 're essentially all the ingredients besides water . If you have too little of these things , you 'll have very hard ice cream ; if you have too much , it might never get firm enough to scoop in your freezer . Fat - ice cream is the easiest to get soft , since it contains the most dairy , but this works on sherbet too . The more cream , the softer . But even butter freezes hard , so this is n't going to keep it from setting . Sugar - this is pretty easy to vary in all frozen desserts . It 'll have a noticeable effect on softness , but reasonable quantities wo n't make it too soft . Alcohol - obviously you wo n't always want to use this , but the right alcohol often goes very nicely with sorbets . Enough alcohol would of course keep it from setting , but it takes a lot . A sorbet made from wine , sugar , and strawberries still sets , though it 's quite soft . Air - this gives the dessert a softer , fluffier texture , but of course wo n't ever stop it from freezing . Make sure to churn things long enough , though you can only ever do as well as your ice cream machine lets you . Additives - gelatin is the main one that 's common in kitchens ; guar gum , and xantham gum are next up . There are also various stabilizers for keeping ice cream smooth . I do n't think I 've ever seen a recipe for a frozen dessert that would n't set at all . It takes an awful lot of fat , sugar , or alcohol just to get it too soft . My best guess in the case of what you saw on TV is that she either went overboard with some kind of additive , or did n't manage to properly freeze it . Note that with home ice cream makers , things will be at least a bit too soft coming straight out of the machine - but they 'll set much harder in the freezer . In practice , if you 're making your own , the problem you 'll reliably have ( especially with random recipes online ) is that it 's too hard . Storebought frozen desserts if anything tend to have more sugar and fat than you 'd use at home , and often have additives to soften and stabilize on top of that . So most things you make at home will tend to be harder than what you buy in the store . Credit where it 's due : I learned some of this from the introduction to <URL> by David Lebovitz ; a lot of similar information is available in <URL> .
<URL> What is in a Hostess Set , Serving Set and an Entertainment Set ? A simple way to remember what pieces are in a Hostess Set is : The word Hostess starts with an " H " everything in a Hostess Set holds something . Hostess Set : Gravy Ladle , Tablespoon , Sugar Spoon Serving Set : Serving Fork , Butter Knife , Pierced Tablespoon Entertainment Set : Casserole Spoon , Dessert Server
Cream sherry is very sweet - likely too sweet for most recipes that do n't explicitly mention it . If a recipe simply calls for " sherry " , it usually means dry sherry , as that 's the most common kind of available . In fact , I do n't think I 've ever even seen " very dry " around here . So I would definitely stick with the dry . As for brand , I believe that sherry is the brand ( somebody correct me if I 'm wrong ) . If you see several different bottles all labeled sherry , I do n't think it matters too much which one you pick - at least if you 're using it for cooking and not drinking . P.S. . If you 're using this as a substitute for rice wine , the commonly-accepted substitute is indeed dry sherry .
<URL> will convert weights to volumes , and says that you should use .53 of a US cup .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
The proper way : 1 ) Put the <URL> into the gourd . 2 ) Put the mate in the gourd . 3 ) Invert , shake vigorously , revert . If possibe , make a small " mountain top " on the oposite side where the bombilla enters the mate tea . 4 ) Add a small amount of cold water ( this is n't necessary -- as I understand , this step helps to keep from burning the mate , which can also be accomplished by using water under 180 ℉ ~ 82 ℃ ) , wait for a few minutes , until the mate absorbs the water . 5 ) Add hot water , drink . 6 ) Repeat step 5 . Do n't move the bombilla while drinking , as this will cause you to stir up little bits . Inverting and shaking is n't necessary if the mate is of high quality ( low dust ) . You can make mate to low dust by putting it in a metal sieve and shaking . Save the dust and small leaves that fall out -- they can be used to brew mate in a coffee pot . It is also worth noting that you can brew mate in a coffee pot or a french press and achieve similar results , although the resulting beverage is n't quite the same as drinking from the bombilla . Also , the second most common way to prepare it is like plain tea : put some mate tea in a paper bag and steep with hot water for several minutes . This is called mate cocido ( cooked mate ) and is not uncommon to offer it to children .
A bunch of spinach usually weighs something like 250-500 grams . My best guess is that something like half that is the stems , which can easily be as long as the leaves . So very roughly , I 'd say a bunch is 125-250 grams . Alternately , if you want to go by volume ( e.g. if your store has bulk loose baby spinach ) , think of a bunch as something like a head of lettuce , except with the bottom third to half mostly stems . Full-size spinach also definitely gets a lot better than 4x6 cm leaves , so you may still be using somewhat more tender baby spinach , but that of course wo n't cause you any problems . ( The stems on baby spinach are tender enough to eat , especially when blending , so you can use everything in your bags . ) In any case , smoothies are really forgiving - not only do you not need a lot of precision , but you can just add and blend until the color and flavor look how you want !
" Cream " is most certainly süße Sahne . A modifier gives you knowledge about the fat percentage . Half and half refers to 20 % fat , which you could mix yourself if needed , but few recipes are that sensitive , so you can use milk ( Vollmilch , 3.5 ) or whipping cream ( Schlagsahne , 30 to 35 percent ) . The only problem is double cream . That 's Konditorsahne , at inner 40 percent , and not available retail in Germany . If it has to be whipped , you have to find a high-ish Schlagsahne ( 33 instead of 30 ) , drizzle some Sahnesteif , and cross your fingers . If the recipe needed a cultured product , it would have specified Greek yogurt ( 10 ) or sour cream ( 10 to 20 , use saure Sahne or Schmand for that ) . Creme fraiche is not used in traditional American recipes , as it is a rare and expensive imported product . You can use it in a recipe calling for sour cream , obtaining a product with a richer mouthfeel and less tanginess . The " what type of cream is suitable " question is unrelated to terminology and should be asked separately . Briefly , the answer is " all of them " .
end question
start question
Why does chilled equipment help when whipping cream ?
Basically , cream whips better when it 's cold . If cream were stored warm , the advice would be to cool the cream . Since it 's already cold , the advice is to cool the equipment ( as warm equipment will increase the temp of the cream ) . Mild science : the temperature effects the size of the bubbles that form , how fat clings to itself , whipping time , and overrun ( air cell structure / air phase volume ) . In other words how light and fluffy it will get and how long it is likely to stay that way . Warning , heavy science from <URL> : The effects of whipping temperature ( 5 to 15 ° C ) on the whipping ( whipping time and overrun ) and rheological properties of whipped cream were studied . Fat globule aggregation ( aggregation ratio of fat globules and serum viscosity ) and air bubble factors ( overrun , diameter , and surface area ) were measured to investigate the mechanism of whipping . Whipping time , overrun , and bubble diameters decreased with increasing temperature , with the exception of bubble size at 15 ° C . The aggregation ratio of fat globules tended to increase with increasing temperature . Changes in hardness and bubble size during storage were relatively small at higher temperatures ( 12.5 and 15 ° C ) . Changes in overrun during storage were relatively small in the middle temperature range ( 7.5 to 12.5 ° C ) . From the results , the temperature range of 7.5 to 12.5 ° C is recommended for making whipped creams with a good texture , and a specific temperature should be decided when taking into account the preferred overrun . The correlation between the whipped cream strain hardness and serum viscosity was high ( R2 = 0.906 ) and persisted throughout the temperature range tested ( 5 to 15 ° C ) . A similar result was obtained at a different whipping speed ( 140rpm ) . The multiple regression analysis in the range of 5 to 12.5 ° C indicated a high correlation ( R2 = 0.946 ) in which a dependent variable was the storage modulus of whipped cream and independent variables were bubble surface area and serum viscosity . Therefore , fat aggregation and air bubble properties are important factors in the development of cream hardness . The results of this study suggest that whipping temperature influences fat globule aggregation and the properties of air bubbles in whipped cream , which alters its rheological properties .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
I believe the goal is to get the best sear possible on each side of the meat . Moving the meat around too much could cause it to cook completely without getting a good sear on the outside . Clearly this does n't apply when doing anything " rotisserie " style , as you 're trying to do the exact opposite : slowly cook the interior of the meat without burning the outside to a crisp or unevenly . Also , see this similar question : <URL>
If the ice cream mix is setting up but tending to leave a buttery coating in your mouth the best thing would be to try cutting back on the cream and replacing it with whole milk or half &amp; half . If it 's a recipe that you 've used in another machine with great success but it does n't seem to in this one , it 's probably a case of how long the frozen bowl is staying cold . I have used the freezer bowl ice cream attachment for KitchenAid machines and have been frustrated more times than not as it does n't freeze up as it should . Too much sugar can also be a culprit in the mix not freezing quick enough . Sugar does n't freeze so a really sweet mix is going to be softer . You might try decreasing sugar content slightly ... not too much or you will end up with an icier result ( If adding fruit to ice cream , combine the chopped fruit with some sugar and cook just a little to allow the sugar to dissolve and the moisture to evaporate . The sugar soaking into the fruit will keep the fruit softer in the ice cream instead of forming icy chunks of fruit . Or , just mix in fruit preserves . ) Make sure that the mix is VERY cold , ideally chilled for several hours or overnight before it goes into the the freezer . If time is n't on your side , then quick-chill it in a metal bowl or container in an ice bath and stir frequently to help chill it throughout . The primary indicator for most ice cream freezers is that the dasher starts to sound labored in its attempt to stir the mix . Or if cranking by hand , you start to sound labored in your attempt to crank it ! Another factor that can affect freezing of ice cream ( although probably not the case in your instance since you do n't have control of the speed ) is the speed of the machine . In the case of the KitchenAid insulated bowl for freezing ice cream , they warn not to go faster than " stir " or the mix wo n't have a chance to freeze to the side of the bowl before the dasher scrapes it . I would try one of their recipes with it to see if it freezes up firm enough without turning to butter and then compare differences between your current recipe and theirs , adjusting sugar , milk to heavy cream ratio , etc. .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
You 're heating the oil past its <URL> . There is no trick or technique that will prevent oil from smoking and oxidizing ( " burning " ) at temperatures above the smoke point . It is literally being slowly destroyed at that temperature . I honestly do n't know why TV chefs are so attached to the idea of cooking with olive oil when most <URL> to compare it to other oils ( for frying purposes ) strongly indicate that it loses all or almost all of its unique taste by the end . Some cite dubious health benefits , but the low smoke point of virgin/extra virgin olive oil may also make it worse for you health-wise due to exactly what you 've witnessed - smoke and oxidation . EVOO is great as a dressing but it 's a terrible choice as a cooking oil . If you absolutely must imitate these confused TV chefs , you can either fry at very low temperatures ( as in , just barely a sizzle ) , which will take considerably more time , or used a refined ( not virgin ) olive oil which has a much higher smoke point . These would typically be the " cheap " olive oils you find in large plastic or metal containers .
Microwave ovens have a turntable because the microwaves themselves form what are known as ' standing waves ' . This means there are essentially static columns of microwave energy inside the cabinet itself . You can see this for yourself - spread a tray or plate with grated cheese , take the turntable out ( or press that button ) , and zap it for a couple of minutes . You should see bands of melted cheese interleaved with unmelted cheese . Thus , the food is rotated to ensure even heating .
The cream whipper relies on gas expansion to work . When you make whipped cream by beating , you beat fine air bubbles into the cream . The cream traps air and becomes essentially a matrix that holds those bubbles -- a foam . Your gas-charged whipper does the same thing in a totally different way . When you charge the whipper with gas , there 's high gas pressure inside with the cream . The cream will actually absorb the nitrous oxide you put in . Because of the pressure , the gas absorbed can be thought of as really really really small bubbles within the cream . So you have a matrix of gas and cream , but because the bubbles are so small , it 's essentially just cream . Chilled liquids more easily absorb gases at high pressure , which is why it 's good to use cold cream and keep the whole unit in the fridge . A limited amount of agitation ( shaking ) exposes more cream to the gas , improving absorption . When you release the cream from the device , the absorbed gas expands rapidly . The bubbles get bigger , and your cream to bubble ratio becomes more like the foam that we know as whipped cream . It 's really exactly the same thing , only with nitrous oxide instead of plain ol' boring air inside the bubbles . Why nitrous oxide ? As I understand it , it 's because it 's the cheapest non-toxic , odorless and tasteless gas you can get . Carbon dioxide would almost be a good choice , but unfortunately it 's bitter . Not a good match for cream . Finally , why is shaking too much a bad thing ? That one I do n't know for sure , but I know what happens when you over-whip cream with the mixer . You make butter . Perhaps the gas or high pressure encourages this conversion , or maybe you 're just churning it that much when you over-shake . Either way , I 'm sure you 've essentially made butter when you shook it too much .
The oil is bubbling very simply because of the water inside the object ( eg : potato ) that is rapidly vaporized when come into contact with the very hot oil . Incidently this is a very good thing as done right , all the water coming out of the object keeps it from taking on too much oil , which would cause you to have over-greasy food . Edit : Also note as @SF commented below , that this can also be a very BAD thing if you put something with too much water into hot oil . Adding this in so nobody burns themselves .
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
The white , pithy part is a source of the bitterness . Either peel more thoroughly , or trim off with a knife . The pulp of some oranges ( of the navel variety ) , can turn bitter when exposed to air . <URL>
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
There are several reasons for adding orange juice : The first is for flavor . The second is to act as an acid . Although in this particular case , the acid is already in the baking powder . All baking powder needs to act as a leavening agent is some kind of liquid . Unless you meant baking soda , in which case an acid is necessary for leavening . The third is to inhibit mold growth . The real reason vitamin C is added is as a dough enhancer , not for gluten development . Since this is a quick bread ( no yeast ) , gluten development is not a main concern . The fourth reason for the orange juice is to make a tender crumb . Because of the fructose found naturally in it . Sugars are added to baked goods as a tenderizing agent . This recipe sounds yummy !
You need 1.1 x as much water as pasta for al dente ! I measured this myself , cooking penne rigate ( in water , not sauce ) - 200g of pasta weighed 420g after being cooked and thoroughly drained . The estimate below from the nutrition facts is 1.4 x , which probably corresponds to typical American overcooked pasta - a surprisingly large difference from mine . I 'm guessing you 'll be somewhere between , maybe 1.25 x . You can also ballpark it from nutrition facts . <URL> has 31g carbs per 100g pasta , and <URL> has 75g carbs per 100g pasta . So 100g dry pasta turns into 100g * 75/31 = 242g of cooked pasta , meaning the added water was ~ 1.4 x the weight of the pasta . So for a pound of pasta , that 's 1.4 pounds or about 2 2/3 cups of water . Given people 's tastes , this might be a little past al dente , so I would personally start with maybe 1.25 cups of water then add a little more if necessary . ( I 'll also try cooking pasta normally and weighing it if I get a chance . ) Note : if you have a significantly different variety of pasta , it will obviously behave differently . This is for pasta that 's 13 % protein and 75 % carbohydrates . For the standard 2oz/56g ( dry ) serving on the package , it 'll say 7g protein and 41-42g carbohydrates . I checked Barilla , De Cecco , Ronzonni , Garofalo , Safeway store brand , Trader Joe 's store brand , and those nutrition facts , and they all matched . If you 're branching out to other styles like whole grains or egg noodles , things will obviously change , but things are very uniform in the US .
For rice it depends . Cooking any starch in water will first cause the starch granules to swell and eventually tangle up with each other ( the gelatinization ) . Dissolving sugars or salts in the water slows down the process by raising the temperature the swelling starts . While few prefer pasta as a stuck blob of strands , the same is not the case for rice . I like my Basmati loose , but my risotto and sushi sticky , so salt may be required for Basmati and optional for Arborio . There are many techniques for controlling the starch for rice . To control the starch gelatinization of rice : <URL> ; or <URL> Method 1 wo n't avoid the grain surface starch gelatinization , but it will help with stickiness ( you may oil coat it after draining ) . Method 2 delays the starch release allowing you to finish a risotto in seven minutes . Cool for parties or for restaurants .
There 's another reason for not boiling liquids , besides the possibility of making a mess ( boiling over ) or ruining it ( scorching , etc. ) . You actually reduce the amount of flavor by boiling . As <URL> : But here 's the deal : when simmering , water is not the only thing escaping . Ever notice how when you come home to a pot of sauce simmering on the stovetop or perhaps a beautiful pot roast braising in the oven , your entire home smells of it ? Guess what : if those flavorful aromatic compounds are reaching your nose , it means they are leaving the pot . So ... if the only goal was to make there be less liquid , boiling 's fine . But if you actually want to concentrate the flavors , you want a slow simmer . The article also goes into more details about reducing alcohol , and some problems with boiling tomato sauce ( which I believe applies to most pectin &amp; other hydrocolloid thickened sauces ) .
There are two main base recipes for ice cream . French style ice cream contains egg yolks , which help make it soft , rich , smooth , creamy , custardy . Philadelphia style ice cream ( sometimes called American style ) has no eggs , and relies on the fat in the cream to keep it soft , but will still never be as rich and smooth as French style , and will still tend to freeze harder . You can make pretty much any ice cream in either style , including the pistachio-almond you want to make . You can look around for recipes without eggs ; I would n't be surprised if you manage to find one one . Or you can simply use a Philadelphia style base , and look at one of the recipes you found to see how to add the pistachio and almond . Depending on how rich you want it , you 'll want 2-3 cups of heavy cream for each 1 cup of milk ; about 3/4 cup of sugar should work , depending on how sweet you want it . If that 's not rich enough for you , you can even replace the milk with cream . ( You could also just go find a recipe for Philadelphia style vanilla ice cream and use that as a base - it does n't get much simpler than that . ) ( P.S. . You could also try gelato , something like <URL> - it uses corn starch as a stabilizer instead . )
According to a quick search on Google , there are two other types of vinegar served in fish and chips shops along with malt vinegar . The first ( and my best guess ) is onion vinegar -- which is white vinegar that has been used to <URL> . This is clear , but at minimum contains onions and salt , and perhaps sugar and other pickling spices . ( I should note that the recipe I linked to uses malt vinegar to pickle the onions , but you could certainly achieve the same result with white vinegar . ) The second vinegar is actually called non brewed condiment , and is n't actually vinegar . It 's ascetic acid , water , and a bit of caramel coloring . The coloring would make it brown , but it would n't have the malt flavor .
The crystalization is to be expected , that 's what inverted sugar does . It is the same thing as with honey , which is chemically nothing but a contaminated inverted sugar . So , you are not doing anything wrong . In an inverted sugar at sucrose ratios , you will get sucrose crystalizing back out of the solution , just as you are observing now . If you really need it smooth , you can try changing the ratio by adding some fructose , as such a mixture is less prone to crystalizing . The one thing that puzzles me in your description is that you can not get it back smooth by heating , this should in principle be possible . Maybe try adding a bit of water to the syrup itself during heating , so it can dissolve again .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
end question
start question
Substitute to milk in coffee ?
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
Yes , you could certainly reconstitute evaporated milk by adding water . The outcome would give you similar but not identical results as fresh milk , due to the change in flavor the milk underwent while being cooked down to the evaporated state : it will retain the slightly cooked , caramelized flavor . This may or many not have a significant effect on a given recipe . Milk also freezes , and still is suitable for most cooking purposes , should you choose to do so . Finally , if you use milk very rarely , unless you are making a dairy dominated recipe like custard or cream soup , you may not have to use milk at all . Water or another liquid might perform similarly or well enough -- it depends on the specific application .
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
well veggie/cheese wise , i would recommend either of : Chickpeas drained in salt water and paprika and grilled in the oven for about 10 minutes Portobello mushrooms cut into large chunks fried halloumi large chunks of celery sauteed in salt pepper , and chili
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
It will definitely make a difference . Yolks contain various things like fats and emulsifiers that affect the flavor and texture of baked goods . If you want more details , then tell us what you 're baking .
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
Upon addition of sugar to the superheated coffee , the formation of bubbles ( phase transformation ) occurs because the fine particles of sugar provide sites for the <URL> of gas from the liquid . When the introduction of a fine inoculant ( such as sugar particles ) results in sudden fizzing of a liquid , it is an indication that there has been minor superheating of that substance . Superheating tends to occur more in microwaves than on stovetops because people use metal saucepans/kettles on the stove , while generally using glass or glazed ceramic containers when heating a volume of water in a microwave oven . When water is heated in a glass or glazed ceramic container rather than a metal one , the very hard surface of the container means that there are few scratches on it to act as sites for the heterogeneous nucleation of gas . Fewer heterogeneous nucleation sites means less heat loss through the transformation of liquid to gas . <URL> also makes a good point about the tendency for stovetop heating to cause localised superheating in the vicinity of the container walls ... However , I think that this would tend to cause more boiling due to localised heating to the point that homogenous nucleation can occur ( with the homogeneously nucleated bubbles then acting as further heterogenous nucleations sites ) -- not because of stirring of the water . With regard to why your bubbles remained present for the duration of drinking , I would hypothesise that this perhaps has something to do with the oils in the crema of the coffee , and/or reaction of the dissolved sugar to form something that increases the surface tension of the water . ( Not sure what you would call the opposite of a <URL> effect ) . A final thing I would like to mention is that ( as indicated on the <URL> page ) , microwaving liquids has the potential to result in violent reaction , or even explosion , of the liquid -- in other words , you are risking serious burn injuries by taking a shortcut to heat it up . Adding a powder ( like sugar or instant coffee ) to superheated water is particularly bad because in doing so , you are introducing millions of nucleation sites at once . That said , you should also be aware that since gas bubbles themselves promote heterogeneous nucleation , simply placing a spoon in the cup can be enough to cause an ' explosion ' . If you really need to microwave a liquid , ( e.g. , if you are cooking something ) , consider heating it in a microwave-safe plastic container that has been washed a few times ( and is therefore abraded on the inside ) . You should also stop the microwave to check the temperature of the liquid at regular intervals , rather than nuking the fluid for an excessively long time .
White chocolate <URL> is at least 3.5 % milk fat and 14 % milk solids . As far as I know , the EU uses the same definition as the FDA ( US ) . So , nothing vegan can legally be sold as " white chocolate " . That said , there are a great many non-dairy white chocolate substitutes , usually made with any combination of soy milk , maltodextrin , vanilla , and saturated/hydrogenated fat ( palm oil , shortening , etc. ) , among other ingredients/additives of course . They do n't taste the same as real white chocolate , but then again , white chocolate is n't real chocolate to begin with , so it ca n't hurt to experiment with some of the products out there - which can be easily sourced with a Google search , as one of the comments indicates .
Try watered down cream , as you 'll still get some of the milkfat , but you do n't want quite as much . Water would probably also work for your crepes , although it would change the taste .
The most commonly used method is the Swiss Water Process : A batch of unroasted beans is soaked in hot water . Caffeine is water soluble , so it 's extracted from the beans . However , some of the other substances that give coffee its flavour ( " coffee solids " ) are also water-soluble and are also extracted . The first batch of beans is discarded and the caffeine is filtered out of the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture by a carbon filter . Another batch of unroasted beans is added to the hot water/coffee solids mixture . The water is already saturated with coffee solids , so only the caffeine is extracted from this batch of beans . The now-decaffeinated beans are removed , the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture is filtered again to remove the caffeine and the process can be repeated with another batch of beans or the same batch to remove even more caffeine . There 's no universal definition of " Decaf , " but it generally means beans that have had at least 97 % of the caffeine ( by weight ) removed .
Pasteurized milk is the standard way milk is sold in industrialized countries . How it 's packaged can depend on the country but it 's perfectly safe to drink provided it 's consumed by the " use by " date . <URL> : Pasteurization ( American English ) or pasteurisation ( British English ) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century . In 1864 Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine just enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage prevented these beverages from turning sour . This was achieved by eliminating pathogenic microbes and lowering microbial numbers to prolong the quality of the beverage . Today the process of pasteurization is used widely in the dairy and food industries for microbial control and preservation of the food we consume . Pasteurization is the reason for milk 's extended shelf life . High-temperature , short-time ( HTST ) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks , whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer , sometimes two to three months . When ultra-heat treatment ( UHT ) is combined with sterile handling and container technology ( such as aseptic packaging ) , it can even be stored unrefrigerated for up to 9 months . This means that most of the microbes in the milk are killed and the milk is perfectly safe to drink right out of the carton . In fact , there are many jokes in the US about chastising teenage boys and young men about drinking directly from the carton/jug of milk . Milk in the US is regularly consumed direct from the gallon jug , see the note under Vitamin D that says " Pasteurized &amp; Homogenized " : Milk in Europe is often in <URL> cartons which do n't have to be stored in the fridge until opened and generally have a longer shelf life due to the UHT handling ( see definition above ) :
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
end question
start question
Why is cocoa powder sometimes used in chocolate cakes when chopped semisweet chocolate is already used ?
You ca n't add too much chocolate into a cake , as you 'll end up adding too much fat , which will change how the cake sets up . They likely wanted more chocolate flavor than what they felt they could get from chocolate alone , and so opted to add cocoa powder as well .
You ca n't add too much chocolate into a cake , as you 'll end up adding too much fat , which will change how the cake sets up . They likely wanted more chocolate flavor than what they felt they could get from chocolate alone , and so opted to add cocoa powder as well .
end question
start question
Any other flour which can be used to replace Maida flour for chewy cakes ?
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
There is no single ideal . More sugar and butter will mean a more crunchy crumble top ( and one that browns or burns more quickly ) , more flour will make it more sandy - they each have their place . The juicier the fruit , the sandier I like the topping to absorb some of the juice . The longer the fruit needs to cook , the more resilient to cooking the topping needs to be . And of course for a tart fruit like rhubarb , you might like more sugar in the topping to balance it - or you might just add sugar to the fruit and leave the topping alone . My goto mix is 1 cup flour , 1 cup sugar , 1/2 cup butter . But play with it a bit and vary it according to the fruit you are using - and I do n't just mean " rhubarb " or " apples " but taste a bit of today 's fruit to see how sweet it is , how soft it is , etc. .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
The author of this recipe probably happens to keep in his pantry ( or more professionally speaking , dry store ) just those two types of flour , and so has specified a mix to get a mid-level flour with moderate protein levels , tailored to his preferences . Given that the author is Jacques Torres , this is almost certainly a scaled down translation of a professional recipe , where that is not an uncommon practice ( the very odd measurements support the idea of scaling and rounding ; the weird flour measurements are probably the closest volume equivalent to a weight based scaled recipe ) . Two commercial varieties ( all purpose , and the less common pastry flour ) also have protein levels in between cake flour and bread flour , with pastry flour being somewhere between cake flour and all purpose , typically . If you happen to have all purpose ( and you almost certainly do ) I would suggest using it in the recipe for the total of both specialty flours . Very few cookie recipes are so fussy that it will actually matter very much .
Chickpea flour ( <URL> , besan ) is very useful in Indian cookery . The most common use in the West is probably for making bhajis and pakora . The most popular of which are <URL> , very popular in the UK . They are essentially an spiced onion fritter , shaped in either discs or balls . Any vegetables can be used to make pakora ( which is essentially the same thing ) or bhajis , but spinach ( sag pakora ) , aubergine ( us eggplant , brinjal bhaji ) , potato ( aloo pakora ) or cauliflower ( gobi pakora ) are the most common , sometimes in combination . Gram flour is also used for making <URL> ( also papad , papadum , a crisp fried pancake , served as an accompaniment to meals with chutney . One of the more commonly seen uses is in chevda ( sometimes chivda ) , or as we call it in the UK usually <URL> ( I believe it is called Punjabi Mix in the US ) . A mixture of dried savoury snacks , coated in spice . One of the primary ingredients is sev , a dried noodle made from gram flour . Mixtures predominantly composed of sev are called sev mamra . There are also a number of Indian sweets made with besan . <URL> ( barfi is something akin to fudge , made with condensed milk ) : <URL> ( little sweet balls ) : NB . You can use it as an egg substitute in vegan cookery , but soya flour works better for the same purpose and , in my opinion , has less associated flavour .
The only difference between regular whole wheat flour and white whole wheat flour is the variety of wheat from which it is ground . Regular whole wheat flour is ground from red wheat while white whole wheat is from a lighter pigmented wheat and thus the lighter color . In both cases the germ is still intact and thus as Jonathan Campbell stated , it will go rancid more quickly than white flour . Keep it in a cool dark place and use up quickly if you ca n't refrigerate or freeze it . When you keep it in the refrigerator or freezer and plan to use it for yeast breads , remember to allow it to warm to room temperature before using for best results with your yeast .
Good Answer Hobodave ... tacking onto that : Most southern U.S. brands ( White Lily , Martha White ) of all-purpose flour are bleached because southerners tend to make more quick breads ( biscuits , cornbread , hoecakes , pancakes , as well as cakes , pie crusts , cobblers ) where tenderness is desired . White Lily has just started producing unbleached all-purpose flour as well . Brands from the Northeast ( King Arthur ) and midwest are usually unbleached because those regions tend to make more yeast breads and the additional gluten forming capability of unbleached flour produces better results . National U.S. brands ( Pillsbury/Gold Medal ) often produce both types or stick with unbleached . Cake flour is always bleached ( usually chlorine gas ) . More information on differences in types of flour can be found in my article titled <URL>
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
It does n't go into the meat , it soaks up water and becomes a slurry . The slurry is transparent , so you do n't see it . If you fry it as it is , you wo n't prevent spraying and sticking the same way it would have been possible with a dry flour layer . If you roll it again , you will have these effects again , plus slightly more heat buffering because of the double amount of crust . The crust will be more noticeable in taste , towards schnitzel style . In general , you do n't want it to happen at all . If you miss your timing and it happens , re-roll . But the proper way to do it is to roll each piece separately , directly before dropping it in the pan . This gives you the optimal effects from the flour with minimal change in taste . If you want the benefits and taste of a thick crust , make a real schnitzel , including pounding the meat thin and making several alternating layers of egg and flour in the crust . Double dipping in flour is not a good approximation , it is a middle thing which does n't approach the good parts of either technique .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
You could probably get away with pork shoulder , although you will want to consider that the texture may not be what you want -- it may either have too much fat and connective tissue , or it may fall apart too much , depending on how long you braise it for . You will probably have to alter your cooking times , I 'd imagine . Pork hocks are somewhat similar in texture to the shank , so that a possibility . Though you will probably run into the same availability problems . It may take a small amount of modification , but your best bet may be to go with country-style ribs . They are tender and flavorful when braised , and are readily available in any grocery store .
Consider what the " no cheating " version of the ingredient is , and get the closest thing to that , that 's convenient enough for you . For things like garlic , ginger , etc. , the " no-cheating " version is to get the fresh ingredients and crush/grate them - what you end up with is a paste . The paste you can buy in jars is this stuff , with preservatives added to make them last . Some flavour will be lost . To make powder , the paste is dried , and more flavour is lost . But the powder will keep for a long time in the cupboard . Note that some spices take on different , desirable flavours when processed . Paprika powder has its own properties when compared to fresh paprika peppers . You 'd use fresh ginger in many curries , powdered ginger in many cakes , candied ginger in some other sweet dishes . Recipes will specify what to use . For things like black pepper , cumin , turmeric , coriander seeds , the " no-cheating " version is to get whole seeds , roast them and grind them in a spice grinder or a pestle and mortar . So buying the ready-ground version is only one step away from the ideal . Try grinding your own at least once . The extra depth and complexity of flavour is striking . But for convenience , ready-ground spices are fine . " Roasting " , for small quantities of whole dry spice , involves briefly heating them on a hot dry pan . It brings out spice flavours you do n't get from just frying or boiling the spice . Of course , it 's optional . Ground spices have a shorter shelf life than whole dry spices . If you open a jar of powdered spice and it does n't have a strong aroma , throw it away -- you might as well use dust . Whole spices have the aroma " locked away " , to be released when you grind . To make a paste , these are sometimes mixed with wet ingredients ( like garlic and ginger ) , water and oil . That 's the basis of the jars of " spice mix " you can buy in supermarkets . It 's also the first step in many curry recipes -- grind your spices , mix with oil to make a paste , and gently fry before adding the onions .
You 're very correct the grinders are pretty pricey . I believe we paid about $ 300 for ours . There are a few good reasons for me to have a grinder . Whether they are good reasons for you is your call . 1 - I can grind whatever I want . Right now I am using hard white wheat . Unbleached , hard , white wheat flour is more expensive than your run-of-the-mill flour and comes in annoyingly small bags . I also grind beans , quinoa , oats , etc. . 2 - I can control the fineness of the grind . This is a minor thing but it is nice for me to be able to experiment with the texture of the product . In practice I usually leave it on the same setting but it is finer than the flour I can purchase . 3 - Wheat flour is very perishable . I go through a fair bit of flour . As much as 200 oz in a heavy week . In order to have enough wheat flour on hand for a couple weeks it would have to live in the freezer . I do n't want to waste that much freezer space . Whole wheat berries last almost indefinitely . 4 - I like the flavor better . It tastes fresher and more nutty . This may be imagined - I have n't done any double blind tests . I should do that . 5 - Cost - I had to do some of the maths as I do n't usually pay a lot of attention to this . King Arthur white wheat flour costs approximately $ 1.00 a lbs . I buy 25lbs bags of bulk white wheat for $ 12 - $ 15 or $ 0.50 - $ 0.60 a pound . If I use around 10 lbs of flour a week ( usually a little less , it varies ) I am saving about $ 5 a week . If you do n't have access to wheat that cheap or do n't make that much bread then of course the savings will be less . As for nutrition - I read all the time that the nutrients in whole wheat flour degrade very quickly . I 'm not a chemist but those results seem plausible to me based on how quickly the flour itself degrades in quality .
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
None of those flours on its own is a good substitute for bread flour , at least for making yeast raised breads . Yeast raised breads require the development of gluten , which is possible only with a wheat based flour . This leaves you only three choices : Whole wheat flour Maida Semolina Comparing the characteristics of each of these to bread flour : Whole wheat flour , depending on the wheat from which it is milled , may have higher or lower protein levels . Your particular whole wheat flour has a moderately high protein level , at the bottom end of the bread flour range . However , the bran that is a component of whole wheat flour is very sharp at the small scale , and does not participate in the chemistry or physical structure of gluten creation . In fact , the sharp edges of the bran actually serve to physically block formation of gluten strands , and even cut already formed strands . For this reason , whole wheat flour is less than ideal for some bread making . In general , you would want to substitute only a portion of bread flour with whole wheat flour ; in fact , it is better to use it only in bread recipes specifically designed for it . If you do choose to use it in lieu of bread flour , consider starting with only 25 % of the total flour amount . Finally , whole wheat flour has a different flavor than white flours , due to the additional components in the flour from the <URL> . The bran , the germ , and the endosperm all ground together ( thus the term whole wheat ) , giving the flour its own flavor from each of these components -- mostly the germ . This is also what leads to the shorter shelf life of whole wheat flour . Maida flour . According to <URL> , maida flour is a soft ( low protein ) flour comparable to cake flour or pastry flour . This means that it has much less protein , and much less gluten formation potential than bread flour does , on a weight for weight basis . Semolina . Semolina is a hard wheat flour with a high protein level , but is typically very coarsely ground . Generally , you can feel the individual granules when you pick it up and hold it between your fingers , and can see them when you look quite closely . This is a much larger grind than bread flour . You can make bread with semolina , as this recipe from <URL> demonstrates . With these components available to you , you would need to experiment to find the best possible outcome -- and unfortunately , that is not the best place to start if you are not already a a fairly comfortable bread maker . My best guess is that your best outcome would be from a mixture of semolina and maida , probably about 50-50 . However , the dough may take longer to hydrate and come together than expected , due to the larger grains of the semolina . If you wish to incorporate whole wheat flour , I recommend starting with 25 % of your total flour , and no more than 50 % total . Note : <URL> refers to an Indian flour called atta which is much closer in its description to bread flours ... is it not available in your region ?
If you are freezing the tortillas yourself and do n't mind putting in a little extra work in the beginning to get more convenience later , I would separate the tortillas with waxed paper ( actually I use the paper sheets that are waxed on one side , intended for bakeries ) . What this buys you is the ability to pull out one or two tortillas as you need them . They will defrost just fine in the pan that you are going to warm/brown them in anyway . If you customarily run through a dozen tortillas , then you probably do n't want to bother . But if that is the case then you probably are n't freezing your tortillas in the first place .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
end question
start question
Can agave nectar be substituted for honey in baking ?
You can use agave nectar instead of honey or sugar if you modify your recipe a bit by lowering the amount of liquids . Agave nectar has more water than honey and is sweeter than honey ( about 50 % sweeter ) . Honey Fructose : 41 % , Glucose : 36 % , Water : 18 % Agave nectar Fructose : 53 % , Glucose : 15 % , Water : 25 % As a starting point in modifying the recipe , keep the amount of water fixed by using less agave nectar than honey ( amount of agave = 0.72 amount of honey ) . Also , dishes made with agave nectar will brown faster than those made with honey because of the agave 's higher fructose content . Start checking a little earlier .
As long as they 're all dry ingredients , then you should be just fine -- after all , that 's exactly what a box of packaged cake mix is . Again , if it 's just dry ingredients , I see no need to refrigerate it . I would put it in an airtight container -- preferably a glass jar * . Placed in your pantry , it should have a shelf-life of a least a couple of months . &#42; Glass jars are my preference for storing dry ingredients -- they 're easy sanitize , and the twist-off cover makes an airtight seal : <URL>
Yes , just put them in a freezer bag and squeeze out plenty of air from it before you tie it up . It does n't matter if they 're shelled/crushed etc. . You can keep them for as long as anything else - some say 6 months , some say a year , some say indefinitely .
Yes you can use 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) of light/dark corn syrup : You can use any of the following substitutions : 1 cup of honey 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) maple syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light or dark corn syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light molasses plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 1 1/4 cups ( 250 grams - 265 grams ) granulated white or brown sugar plus 1/4 cup ( 60 ml ) additional liquid in recipe plus 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar Courtesy of <URL>
Unbaked lumps probably mean you are n't mixing it enough . Try starting with a little less flour and knead in more as you go . Another issue is you may not be kneading it enough . Next time try using the <URL> . You do n't have to do this every time , but if you 're having trouble with a specific recipe this will help you figure out how the dough should " feel " when its ready by giving you a visual indicator . I 've found that when I have dough rising problems , it 's usually because I did n't knead long enough . This should also help fix your mixing issue . That being said , there are two good methods to see if dough has risen enough . One is to let it rise in a marked container ( though this does n't work well for shaped loaves or if you are n't supposed to let it double ) . The other is the poke test . From a <URL> : To test for doneness , use the finger test : Poke it with 2 fingers ; it holds the indentation , it 's ready . Generally I poke it and if it pops right back out , it 's not ready . For sourdough , if it holds its shape for a moment and then slowly starts to expand back , it 's perfect . For other breads , holding the indentation is a good indicator . This is n't necessarily advisable for delicate doughs . If you 're working with a delicate dough , try the test on one loaf that you do n't " need " to be perfect . You can use this as a relative time measurement for the future .
Honey is your real binding agent here , not maple syrup . You can substitute the sugar-free syrup but be aware of what 's in it - according to the ingredients , it 's mostly <URL> , which is both a <URL> and a laxative . Now , ordinarily , I would n't tell people to worry about the digestive effects of sorbitol , but that 's a seriously large quantity you 'd be adding , so if any of you have sensitive stomachs , beware of eating too much of that trail mix at once . The other property - humectancy - means that what you end up with is going to be moister than what you 'd get with pure maple syrup . That may or may not be a good thing depending on your tastes . Since your issue seems to be a lack of availability rather than a problem with sugar itself , I 'd personally substitute generic pancake syrup , sugar syrup or even corn syrup instead . Or , if you 're really keen on the sugar-free stuff , you can use less of it and add more honey because the sorbitol will help keep the whole product moist . If you really want to cut down on the sugar , you can also use agave nectar , which is a fairly close substitute for honey ( a bit thinner ) , and could also stand in for maple syrup if used in combination with another syrup and perhaps some maple extract or maple flavouring . It wo n't be the same flavour , but , texture-wise , it should be a pretty close match .
To address this , I think we should examine why head cheese is made from a head in the first place . There are two main reasons , the character of the meat attached to the head : paucity , toughness , and ( lack of ) accessibility ; and the large amount of gelatin that can be obtained . The meat on a head is well-exercised , and , with the exception of cheeks and jowl , thin , full of connective tissue , and wrapped around an oddly-shaped skull . It 's difficult and not exactly worth the effort to try to remove it raw ; after a good deal of work , you would end up with small shreds of meat that would probably best be braised anyways . Much easier to braise the head in its entirety and pick off the meat once it 's soft . The potential for gelatin is abundant in a head , especially assuming that the skin is left on ( which it is for pig 's heads ) : the skull of course contains plenty of albumen , the ears and snout are made of cartilage , and there 's tendons around the jaw and heading into the neck . Considering this , to make a substitution for a head , we should look for other parts of the animal that have these characteristics . The most obvious choice is the lower legs : pig trotters are in fact often added to the pot when making head cheese . Shanks all the way down to the ankles , and clean hooves from other animals , if available , would be perfectly suitable . The chicken feet you mention have the characteristic of yielding a good amount of gelatin , so they are a candidate . Tails are also a fine source of gelatin , with skin and plenty of connective tissue . Skin on its own would also be useful . For the meat , any of the usual well-exercised cuts should be suitable ; a jowl on its own , the shoulder , possibly a diaphragm ( hanger ) from a cow . In fact , one could very well make a delicious head cheese-like terrine using commercially-prepared gelatin with a full homemade stock , and any flavorful cut of meat that was available .
I have cooked rice that was used for weighting a pie crust with fine results . I should have cooked some that was n't baked to see what the difference was , but in any case it turned out fine . Of course it may matter what temp the rice was baked at and for how long , and this could also affect the duration needed to cook the rice itself . I have also boiled beans that were previously baked , and they turned out fine , too .
Wine will eventually turn into vinegar . So , other than having a really icky taste by itself ( unless you like drinking vinegar :) ) , it is n't bad for your health and you can cook with it .
For sure , @TFD is correct that you should be wary of Wikihow - in the link you shared , the proportions of ingredients listed at the top do n't appear to match the actual amounts of ingredients shown in the pictures . " Honey Roasted Peanuts " is a catch-all phrase that is used to describe just about any type roasted peanuts in a candy coating . The catch-all extends to recipes that do n't even call for much honey ( typically a touch of honey and a bunch of sugar ) and to recipes that do n't even call for much roasting . To get roasted peanuts in a candy coating using an oven , you either have to roast-then-coat or you have to coat-then-roast . The primary difference is oven time . If you use cooked peanuts , you only need to cook the coated nuts long enough for the candy coating to bake onto the peanut - you 're just honey-glazing the peanuts - they wo n't be in the oven nearly as long as they would be if you were roasting raw nuts . It 's a fairly quick process that 's easy enough to gauge by sight . Technically , you 'd be roasting the honey coating onto the nuts - not roasting the raw nuts in honey . Note - Planters nuts are labeled as " Dry Roasted Honey Roasted Peanuts " - the peanuts are dry-roasted first then coated then roasted again . Also , for what it 's worth , the ingredients list shows they contain more sugar than honey by weight : <URL> . If you use raw peanuts , you would need to keep them in the oven long enough for the peanuts to roast as well . Given the oven time your link recommends , raw peanuts would not cook - so that would be one fundamental reason why your link specifies that you not use raw peanuts . Potential flaws of Wikihow aside , your link proposes a way to roast honey onto nuts , not a way to roast nuts using honey . You can certainly honey-roast raw peanuts using more time in the oven - but the timing could present problems with the coat-then-roast method . The candied coating is going to brown as your mixture cooks in the oven making it difficult to visually gauge when your formerly raw peanuts have cooked sufficiently ( or if they are cooking evenly ) . Also , you should be aware that once nuts are cooked and hot , it is very easy for them to go from done to burnt in very little time - it is probably pretty easy to burn your mix if you overshoot the roasting . It would definitely be easier to determine when a honey glaze has roasted onto cooked nuts than it would be to know when raw nuts were finished cooking in a glaze . But if raw peanuts are easier to come by or if you want to have literally roasted honeyed peanuts , it 's definitely possible but I would recommend looking to a more reputable source for guidance ( especially for cooking time ) . And once you start roasting your mix , stir/rearrange the nuts thoroughly and frequently to insure even cooking and to keep burning at bay .
Cocoa nibs are the result of fermenting the seeds from the cocoa fruit ( the size of a large grapefruit ) , and then roasting the whole cocoa beans , and then de-shelling them The de-shelling process tends to gently crack the contents into large pieces . Unlike other seeds and nuts this is acceptable as the product is going to be finely ground anyway You can also buy " raw cocoa nibs " , which are fermented , de-shelled , but not roasted . These have a different taste , and do not make good chocolate Roasted or not they taste interesting and are useful as a whole flavour item in salads , baking , drinks etc. . They are very high in fat so use with caution . The fat also has a very low melting point , so will make any warm liquid dish look oily They are not to everyone 's taste , unlike chocolate compound :-) In both these case the beans have been fermented on the ground for a few weeks . Non-fermented cocoa beans are not very nice ( I have n't ever had any though ) . From what I understand they compare to fermented beans like non-pickled olives are too pickled olives : - / Roasted cocoa bean nibs , and roasted cocoa beans Non-roasted cocoa bean nibs
You can use compound chocolate ( the inexpensive " coating chocolate " ) . It 's what you find used in a lot of cheap store-bought chocolate , and it has very similar melting and viscosity properties to couverture . You can usually find it in most bulk food stores . The important property of couverture is its high proportion of cocoa butter and correspondingly high fat content . Compound chocolate normally does not contain any cocoa butter , so it is nowhere near as rich as couverture , but it achieves roughly the same fat content with vegetable fat and will act similar to couverture when melted . Technically , compound chocolate is not actually chocolate , so the result will be lower quality than if you had used couverture ; but if you 're pinching pennies , I think that 's the way to go .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
Here are a few options : Make a salt barrier around the jar . Keep jar in a bowl full of water . Use air-tight container ( does n't need to be a jar ) . Any of the above should keep ants away from your honey .
If you say that your handling of the fish was a 5 minute walk and to cut it up and freeze it , it is more than likely that the contamination occurred during the supply chain . Once the enzyme histidine decarboxylase has been formed , it can continue to produce histamine in the fish even if the bacteria are not active . There are test kits available for checking histamine levels but they are intended for commercial use . <URL> is one of the places that has them .
Many of the aromatic qualities of liqueurs are due to volatile substances that will likely evaporate while reducing the liqueur . So it really depends on how volatile the substances are that you want to keep . I performed a simple experiment with Frangelico . So , what I did is ( over low heat for 20 minutes ) I reduced 1/4 cup of store bought Frangelico to cca . 1/8 cup hazelnut and caramel flavored sugar water/syrup . It tastes pleasant , but the hazelnut aroma is a bit weaker - which might suggest that some of the hazelnut aroma evaporated together with the alcohol and water ( would n't be surprising ) or that the alcohol helped with distributing ( hence perceiving ) the aroma better or that the sweetness and other flavors now overpower it . Anyway , as stated above in many cases the aromatic substances in mixtures are aromatic because they are highly volatile - we can smell them cause they escape from the mixture . So , what can you do ? Some techniques that I have used in the past come to mind : <URL> . Where you separate aromatic substances depending on their boiling points and catch them after condensation . However , the heat might not be good for some substances . <URL> . Which became a " hot " technique in molecular cooking =) Here the idea is similar to distillation , but the method is gentler in terms of temperature as it operates under reduced pressure - however it requires special equipment - a rotary evaporator . I successfully used it to separate the aroma from walnut liqueur and to make <URL> . <URL> . It has been suggested for <URL> and other stuff from the alcohol medium ( you might find suggestions for similar techniques by searching the internet for " homemade [ whatever ] essence/extract " ) . Making your own liqueurs/alcohol extracts - with more concentrated aroma than the commercial ones - so you have less volume for the same amount of the aromatic substance . This might be possible as the amount of alcohol in the solution might be able to accept more of the aromatic substance than there is in the commercial liqueur . However , it is very likely they are adding a concentrated/distilled essence , which gives a more clean and stronger flavor than what you can get from just extracting it ( from say hazelnuts ) with alcohol . However , as perviously suggested by @TFD you can just want to avoid all the hassle and buy commercially available essences/extracts or use some alternative flavorings as @razumny suggests . Or simply try the reduction technique if you do n't mind loosing some of the volatile substances - and if the result is satisfying enough . That said , I made very tasty reductions of some liqueurs with very strong flavors ( homemade wild blueberry liqueur and Terrano liqueur ) to pour over deserts , where I mostly just wanted to get rid of the alcohol taste and to thicken it a bit . So , the results will vary from liqueur to liqueur and your best bet would be to just try it out with small quantities to see how it goes .
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
Fundamentally , the reason for this substitution is that applesauce contains <URL> . In baking , the role of oil is to coat the flour , preventing it from combining with the water ( or other wet ingredients ) and developing <URL> . Gluten is what causes dough to rise , and also gives elasticity to the final product - what most people think of as " chewiness . " When you 're baking , for example , a cake , or even a pie crust , you want to limit the amount of gluten that develops . A cake or pie crust should be moist , light , and fluffy , not tough and chewy . When you bite into a cake and find it very dry and bread-like , that is because it has developed a lot of gluten . A good amount of oil or other fat leads to a lighter , moister , less-glutinous result . The pectin in applesauce can also , to a certain extent , help to inhibit gluten formation in a dough , but the similarities end there . I can not stress this point enough , and I 've seen many other online resources get this dead wrong : Pectin ( applesauce ) is not a straightforward or foolproof substitute for fat . The mechanisms by which pectin and oil work in this context are completely different : Oil is a <URL> . Lipids bind to starch ( including the ~ 75 % starch in flour ) and are <URL> - the traditional example of this is dew drops forming on the surface of grass or plants ( the latter being the hydrophobe ) . In a sense , oil forms a protective " shield " around the flour molecules . Pectin , on the other hand , is a <URL> , and specifically a <URL> . Pectin is not hydrophobic and does not actually protect the flour molecules . In fact , pectin is of the same family as starches , which are also polysaccharides . What 's really happening here is that the pectin competes with the flour for water . That means less water overall reaches the starch and gluten-forming proteins ( giladin and glutenin ) in the flour , and because of this , it is not able to develop as much gluten or gelatinize much of the other starch . What does all of this actually mean for you , the baker ? Quite simply , it means you have to be very careful with this substitution : Too much pectin can turn your recipe into a jelly-like consistency . Too little pectin will fail to prevent glutenization ( in other words , you 'll get bread ) . Pectin has the property of <URL> - meaning that once it starts to gel , it also starts to expel liquid , and your dessert will dry out or deflate over time . Pectin is actually water-soluble at high temperatures ( technically , it forms a <URL> ) , it just happens to absorb a lot of water along the way . Baking for too long , or at too high a temperature , will cause the pectin to break down and dissolve completely , making it useless . There are also several other problems ( or at least " gotchas " ) when making the apple sauce substitution : Applesauce is <URL> . It has a good deal of water and various proteins and acids , and even a certain amount of lipids . The exact quantities , however , depend on how the applesauce was made , so it is very hard to get precise control over the amount of pectin , and the textbook 1:1 substitution ratio is almost never correct . Another thing that applesauce contains is sugar - even unsweetened applesauce . You will almost certainly need to reduce the amount of sugar elsewhere in your recipe . This may be difficult , especially if the bulk of the sugar is used as a dry ingredient . Applesauce behaves somewhat similarly to oil , but do not even try using it as a substitute for any other fat . Butter , in particular , contains milk proteins which act as natural emulsifiers ; pectin does have certain stabilizing properties but is a rather poor emulsifier compared to butter [ citation needed ] . And it goes without saying that the flavour is substantially different from that of applesauce ; oil is " OK " to substitute for because it has very little flavour of its own . If you plan on using applesauce as a substitute for oil in a recipe that does not specifically explain how to use it as a substitute , then I strongly suggest you do two things : Do n't substitute the entire quantity . Use 1/2 oil , 1/2 applesauce , or maybe 1/4 oil and 3/4 applesauce . You will likely also have to lower the total quantity of oil/applesauce to approximately half of what it originally was ( give or take 1/4 ) . If you can , try this substitution on a small scale first , and experiment with the quantities of oil , sugar , and applesauce , before going all-out and putting it into the oven while your guests arrive . It 's very likely that on the first few attempts , you 'll end up with something that 's palatable , but nowhere near the quality of the oil-based recipe . Ignore these disclaimers at your own risk !
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
end question
start question
Do tinned anchovies need to be sold cold for food safety or quality reasons ?
I found this very informative article from the Crown Prince company , an anchovy canner and distributor . Apparently the reason for cold storage has to do with the preservation process and product quality : <URL> Anchovies are a " semi-preserved " product . This means that they are not sterilized by either cooking or pasteurization . Instead , anchovies are preserved by a salting process whereby salt is used to control bacteria which would otherwise render a canned product unusable . The anchovies remain in the salt until just before canning . Therefore , suppliers do not pack ahead of order . Our anchovies are not packed until just prior to shipment . Because they are " semi-preserved " , anchovies will eventually break down and become mushy . The cans may even puff . This occurs because there is a non-harmful bacteria that survives in salt . This bacteria can be inconvenient because when it grows it can eventually form a gas which will puff the can . We repeat that this is not harmful to humans , but is most inconvenient . Heat will hasten the growth of the non-harmful bacteria . Anchovies should always be stored in a cool place , preferably in the refrigerator . Their shelf life when refrigerated is about 18 months . If you do not plan on consuming the anchovies or paste immediately after purchasing , we recommend storing them in the refrigerator . It is important to note that puffed anchovy cans are not indicative of a faulty canning procedure , but rather of improper storage subsequent to canning . Occasionally , customers complain of a white substance in the can . Often , salt collects around the edges of the fish . This is harmless , as it is only salt .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
Those single serving ' creamers ' have been manufactured using Ultra High Temperature ( UHT ) processing . According to <URL> ( the most reliable information source in the multiverse ! ) , milk treated by UHT has an unopened shelf life of 6 to 9 months . The reason there is no ' best before ' date is that they are purchased in bulk by the merchant , the container for a bunch of them ( which the retail buyer will rarely see ) would have the best before date on it .
Jaggery does n't require any kind of soaking . It 's usually added either while sautéing or if the dish is gravy based , while its boiling . Jaggery usually softens up when heated and gradually <URL> with other ingredients just as salt or sugar would . The hard <URL> of jaggery are difficult to break into pieces and its easier to grate it .
Short answer : I 've only heard good things about the CCK # 1 small slicer , and would suggest that . If you 're new to the style of knife , pick up a cheap carbon-steel Dexter Russell one for like $ 20-25 at your local Chinatown . Long answer : Chinese slicer knives ( more commonly called Chinese cleavers ) are multipurpose knives , so they fill the same niche as French-style chef knives . They 're common options for cheap restaurant knives , and I 've seen them used professionally . I now use a Dexter Chinese Cleaver as my primary knife at home . The common features of Chinese cleavers are a squared-off , deep , often carbon steel blade , bamboo barrel-style handle , and pure awesomeness . Generally the blades are around 200mm long x 75-90mm deep , or about 8 " x 3 " . As you note , the blades are not as heavy or thick as German-style cleavers , so they ca n't handle bone . Although they get mentioned a lot for vegetable chopping , Chinese cleavers are remarkably flexible for both meat and vegetables . You can find videos of Chef Martin Yan <URL> with a Chinese cleaver . The deep blade makes chopping thick objects simple , where the squared corner is remarkable for fine detail work . The spine of the knife can be used to tenderize meat or scrape cutting boards . The broad blade is perfect for transferring cut product to a pan . You can even use the handle for crushing spices ! The carbon steel blades can be love or hate for many people . Personally , I love how mine takes and holds an edge comparable to the most expensive stainless steels . The fly in the ointment is that they can rust right before your eyes if you cut lemons or acidic tomatoes . They should always be cleaned and dried PROMPTLY after use , to avoid rust . Between use , I oil mine lightly with vegetable oil , as an extra precaution . Between this and the water-intolerance of the bamboo handle , they do need some special care . Although stainless-steel cleavers are becoming more common , I really think it defeats the point if you use one . They 're supposed to be cheap and ugly , but workhorses . A good Chinese cleaver should n't set you back more than $ 50 in your local Chinatown or online ... mine was about $ 25 and it does dang fine , though I will probably upgrade to a CCK # 1 eventually .
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
Unless there is local regulation that requires labelling of items unsafe for raw consumption , the only 100 % sure way would be to ask the manufacturer . However , a non-perishable sauce being unsafe without being boiled , but safe if doing so ( just reheating will not matter much anyway ! ) , would be an odd enough ingredient that you could expect a warning on the label . If there was a severe risk of microbial problems , that would either spoil the sauce right in the bottle , or make it unsafe in a way that heat will not fix . Non-perishable but unsafe raw is more typical of DRY goods , since they can perfectly well harbor spores or small amount of bacteria without actively spoiling .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
The only difference between regular whole wheat flour and white whole wheat flour is the variety of wheat from which it is ground . Regular whole wheat flour is ground from red wheat while white whole wheat is from a lighter pigmented wheat and thus the lighter color . In both cases the germ is still intact and thus as Jonathan Campbell stated , it will go rancid more quickly than white flour . Keep it in a cool dark place and use up quickly if you ca n't refrigerate or freeze it . When you keep it in the refrigerator or freezer and plan to use it for yeast breads , remember to allow it to warm to room temperature before using for best results with your yeast .
Vodka by definition is a flavorless distilled alcohol , retaining any of the organoleptic properties of the grain or potato could be considered as ruining the end product . Potatoes are a good source of starch , but brewers yeast has a limited ability to break down starch into usable fuel ; its preferred fuel sources are relatively simple sugars like mono and disaccharides . In order to efficiently convert the starch in potatoes to sugar the potatoes must first be boiled so that the starches gelate . Once gelated , the potatoes are then Mashed-in with malted barley or wheat at a temperature around 150 ˚F so that the diastatic enzymes can break those starches into the sugars that yeast likes to eat . These same steps are used when making vodka from non-malted grains such as corn ( maize ) . Boiling the potatoes also helps reduce the number of surface microbes that could end up influencing the final product . Bacteria and wild yeast strains can lead to moldy , grassy , sour , and other unpleasant flavors that may necessitate multiple distillations to remove . Making a mash of raw , peeled potato would likely yield something closer to a sourdough starter with a mix a naturally occurring yeasts and bacteria producing a small amount of alcohol along with acetic and lactic acids , as well as other compounds .
Unfortunately I do n't agree with the given answers . I recently bought a $ 350 zojirushi rice cooker . According to the manual there is such a thing as " rinse-free " rice . There is even a function on the rice cooker for this setting . In addition , the rice cooker manual explains that the rice should be rinsed several times with cold water .
Looks like FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ) does a formal testing <URL> . One of the easier methods : 2.4.5.3 . The Alcohol Test The test is quick and simple . It is besed on instability of the proteins when the levels of acid and/or rennet are increased and acted upon by the alcohol . Also increased levels of albumen ( colostrum milk ) and salt concentrates ( mastitis ) results in a positive test . Procedure : The test is done by mixing equal amounts of milk and 68 % of ethanol solution in a small bottle or test tube . ( 68 % Ethanol solution is prepared from 68 mls 96 % ( absolute ) alcohol and 28 mls distilled water ) . If the tested milk is of good quality , there will be no coagulation , clotting or precipitation , but it is necessary to look for small lumps . The first clotting due to acid development can first be seen at 0.21-0 .23 % Lactic acid . For routine testing 2 mls milk is mixed with 2 mls 68 % alcohol . Simplified for home use : This test is likely to be adaptable to household alcohol drinks such as vodka or similar beverages . For example the number of teaspoons of Vodka an ounce or two of milk can hold before it clots .
I have been told that cedar , white and yellow pine , and many other variaties are safe in normal quantities and have high vitamin content . Some have supposed medicinal effect for headaches , such as cedar . My advice is to look up " tea " or " infusion " with each type of needle you want to try so you can avoid a poisonous concoction . As for white pine , I have made delicious tea for breakfast and for the canteen with it while camping and have survived so far . It goes quite well with wild mint .
I generally find that basting while grilling is less about keeping the internal meat moist and more about preventing outside from scorching . If you 've brined and injected the turkey breast , I 'd say you are fine as long as the exterior is n't browning too quickly .
I found this very informative article from the Crown Prince company , an anchovy canner and distributor . Apparently the reason for cold storage has to do with the preservation process and product quality : <URL> Anchovies are a " semi-preserved " product . This means that they are not sterilized by either cooking or pasteurization . Instead , anchovies are preserved by a salting process whereby salt is used to control bacteria which would otherwise render a canned product unusable . The anchovies remain in the salt until just before canning . Therefore , suppliers do not pack ahead of order . Our anchovies are not packed until just prior to shipment . Because they are " semi-preserved " , anchovies will eventually break down and become mushy . The cans may even puff . This occurs because there is a non-harmful bacteria that survives in salt . This bacteria can be inconvenient because when it grows it can eventually form a gas which will puff the can . We repeat that this is not harmful to humans , but is most inconvenient . Heat will hasten the growth of the non-harmful bacteria . Anchovies should always be stored in a cool place , preferably in the refrigerator . Their shelf life when refrigerated is about 18 months . If you do not plan on consuming the anchovies or paste immediately after purchasing , we recommend storing them in the refrigerator . It is important to note that puffed anchovy cans are not indicative of a faulty canning procedure , but rather of improper storage subsequent to canning . Occasionally , customers complain of a white substance in the can . Often , salt collects around the edges of the fish . This is harmless , as it is only salt .
In my experience , the most likely impact of a gentle boil vs. a furious rolling boil is going to be on texture of starchy foods , such as potatoes or other root vegetables , rather than flavor . I 've found that a gentle simmer of potatoes will result in a mostly intact shape and consistent texture , whereas an aggressive boil without perfect timing can result in the outer layers of the potato breaking apart , sometimes before the center has time to cook fully . I 've seen similar issues with stuffed parcels of pasta like ravioli or boiled won tons . I 've also found that open pot egg poached eggs have much nicer results with a gentle simmer than an aggressive boil , perhaps for related reasons . Since part of how we experience taste is texture , you could say that the " taste " is affected .
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
Two Reasons : 1 . ) The faster the food drops below the ' Danger Zone ' the less spoilage it will have If it takes that freshly-cut steak 2 hours to cool down from cow-body-temperature to a safe 40F , that 's more spoilage and less shelf-life for the product . A rapid chill-down means a more valuable product . 2 . ) Ice-crystals damage food , and the faster water freezes , the smaller the ice-crystals If the temperature of the water drops slowly , the water-molecules will have time to organize themselves into nice , neat rows ( imagine a big snowflake ) . At a microscopic level , these ice-crystals will puncture cell-membranes and cell-walls , damaging the food and affecting texture . If , on the other hand , the temperature drops rapidly , the ice-crystals will form more haphazardly , with less well-organized crystals . This means fewer ice-javelins stabbing into your food . Try an experiment sometime : take a serving of ice-cream out of your freezer , let it melt completely , put it in an airtight container , then toss it back in the freezer . Let it freeze completely and taste it . The flavor will be roughly the same , but the texture will be much worse . There will be big , crunchy ice-crystals throughout . The big-time ice-cream makers invest in heavy-duty freezing tech that allows them to freeze the ice-cream faster , and with smaller crystals , the less-granular , and more creamy this tastes .
There is one reason I might do this . If the core is green , that is starting to form a sprout . I cut that out as it can be bitter . Otherwise I do n't know why one would do that .
It is safe to consume the guts . Many people do . More Info : After digging deeper into the above article I spotted it contains the answer . <URL> They 're so small ( only up to 12cm long ) that they 're often cooked whole - head , guts and all . If you prefer , however , you can open up the belly with your thumb and rinse out the innards , and prise out the gills with your thumb and forefinger . Regarding their association with brisling , it seems that the two terms are synonymous ( though somewhat contextual ) : Sprats are sometimes also known by their Scandinavian name , brisling , especially if they 've been smoked and canned .
end question
start question
Can you brew black tea in a macchinetta ?
Alright . I did it . I took photos , but it might be only later before I can upload them . The Equipment . Small macchinetta , enough for two small tea glasses . The Process . I put about half the height of the holding chamber . In retrospect , I could have gone even 2/3rd of the height . Edit : I just opened up the pot , to clean it up , it seems that my amount was right on the money . After the second pot the leaves expanded even more . I think that a third pot could have been made with them as well . End edit . I poured water to the appropriate height ( or a bit less ) , and put it on the stove on a low heat until there was some noise that indicated that more or less the tea is ready . The first serving was weak . But that was expected , my dad remarked that it 's normal for the first washing to be weak . So we did a second run . The result was pretty good . It would have been better if I padded up the tea leaves , but it was pretty nice . The Consequences . I would n't recommend this method over pouring hot water through the tea leaves ( not steeping ) . But the experiment was fun ! Thanks for the two answerers that reassured me that this is doable .
TL ; DR = The sweet tea takes longer to cool down because there is a lot more stuff in it to get cold . When cooling unsweetened tea , you are cooling almost pure water ( the tea solids are negligible ) . A 12 ounce glass of unsweetened tea has about , you guessed it , 12 oz ( by weight ) of liquid to cool , or 340 grams ( mass ) . Southern-style sweet tea ( if this is the " sweet tea " you are referring to ) , has a 2:1 ratio ( by volume ) of tea to sugar . A 12 ounce glass of sweet tea has 12 oz ( by weight ) of tea , and 5-6 ounces of sugar ( by weight - 8 oz of sugar by volume = ~ 7 oz by weight ) . This puts the total weight of the beverage at 18 ounces or 510 grams ( by mass ) . The sweet tea , in this example , has 50 % MORE mass than the unsweetened tea ! This extra mass will take more time to cool down , because there is a lot more STUFF to get cold . It occupies the same volume , but there are a LOT more molecules to chill . Compounding factors : Heat Capacity vs. Specific Heat : A detail to this is that a solution of sugar and water has a lower specific heat ( by MASS unit ) than pure water , so the total heat capacity of the sweet tea is not quite 150 % of the heat capacity of the unsweetened tea , but somewhere between 100 % and 150 % . Intuition would put it somewhere in the 130 % -140 % range . Read the <URL> for some details on that calculation . Rest assured , however , that the heat capacity of the sucrose solution is higher than pure water . Conductivity : I 've ignored the thermal conductivity of the solution , since I 'm assuming that the stirring in the tea makes the small conductivity differences between the solutions negligible , but that calculation could be done as well . Convection : Unstirred sweet tea will experience less convection than unstirred unsweetened tea . In the unstirred sweet tea , dense sucrose solution will remain at the bottom while the cold water from the melting ice will sit on the surface ( you can actually see this visually if the tea is sufficiently colored ) . This slows cooling by slowing the mixing of the cold liquid with the warm liquid . In unsweetened tea the cool liquid will sink the bottom , promoting convection and self-mixing . However , convection is a side-issue to the primary point , the total heat capacity of the beverage . And as a final note , explanations like this really make it obvious how annoying it is that US measurements use ounces for both volume AND weight .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
I think what you 've stumbled across here is an interesting implementation of a technique , and not really a specific dish . The technique ( simplified ) is poaching . It 's just a very unique way of doing it . I 've had eggs poached in black tea in Macau , and you 'll also find the technique used in English and French cooking . There 's an old recipe for scallops with demi-glace that calls for the scallop to be garnished with a quail egg poached in tea with bergamot ( Earl Grey , commonly ) . I wish I could remember the name of it and my French is n't nearly good enough to search effectively . My eggs were cooked until just runny , but it 's not uncommon to have them warmed just to hot and gooey with the white still translucent ( and delicious with noodles ) . There 's probably a colloquial name for what she described , but it 's essentially an adaptation of a technique that ( very likely ) originated in China .
I 'm afraid you have gotten something wrong . <URL> and pressure cooking are , as far as food physics is concerned , on the opposite ends of the scale . Pressure cooking allows you to increase the boiling point of water , thus reducing the cooking time . ( Bad idea for a tender steak , btw. , as soon as you exceed a certain temperature , the proteins in the meat change irreversibly and the meat gets tough . ) Sous-vide uses temperatures way below the boiling point , combined with a very extended cooking time . This means you can safely and slowly bring your steak to the desired core temperature without the risk of overcooking and thus toughening the meat . A final sear is just a finishing touch , not technically a necessity for cooking the meat . ( But do n't skip it , it 's for flavour and eye appeal ! ) So no , we ca n't give you a temperature / time chart for steak in a pressure cooker - because the results would be very unsatisfactory .
It appears to be feasible ! I found <URL> in which a " cooking expert " gives a specific recipe : Frozen egg tempura Remove the shell of a frozen egg and cut the egg in half lengthwise without thawing . A peeled egg is slippery , so put a paper towel on the cutting board before you place the egg on the board . Lightly flour the halves of the egg all over , and dip it in a mixture of three tablespoons of tempura flour and two tablespoons of water . Deep-fry the egg in oil heated at 160 C for about three minutes . They 're not too specific about the results , but I imagine they 'd have mentioned if it exploded or anything ! <URL> mentions doing essentially the same thing for a scotch egg : Freeze the raw egg in its shell , de-shell the frozen raw egg and wrap the sausage meat around it whilst it is still frozen . This can be difficult as the egg 's albumen defrosts quickly . Coat in flour , egg and breadcrumb . Fry till the scotch egg floats and the crumb is a deep golden brown . It 's the only way I know that gives a soft runny yolk every time . I do n't know what frying temperature was used , and it 's got sausage and breading around the egg rather than just tempura batter , but it 's a deep-fried egg , starting from raw/frozen , and produces a soft yolk .
<URL> says you can safely store waffle batter for 3 months , but I 've had bad luck freezing it as far as quality goes . After thawing and cooking the batter , the waffles did n't really " rise " enough to be worthwhile . They tasted ok , but the texture was n't nearly what I wanted . Waffles are essentially a <URL> , and I believe the baking powder does n't have the same effect after freezing . I do know that you lose the frothy goodness that you get from the whisking/beating , which is important in achieving the light , fluffy lift inside the crispy exterior . I was told that if you use a yeast recipe instead of a baking powder recipe , you can thaw it overnight and it will give the yeast time to activate by morning - unfortunately I have n't tried it so I 'm only passing it on as a suggestion . What I 've found works : Making a bunch of waffles and freezing them between layers of wax paper . Not as good as fresh , but better than store-bought frozen , and very convenient . Storing the dry mix in the pantry ( short-term ) or freezer ( longer-term ) , as I generally have milk and eggs on hand and have time for a quick whisk . Not as convenient or portable , but tastier . If you modify the recipe using evaporated milk or dried buttermilk , you can make them with water and egg instead of milk and egg . As a side note , you probably have about 3 days in the fridge .
What you 're describing is n't all that different from how they make various products like Liquid Smoke ( make smoke along with steam , then condense that steam ) . You will need to make sure that some actual condensation occurs ( for example , by having a lid for the smokey vapor to condense onto ) . However , it may be simpler to add a liquid smoke-type product directly ; at least the main brands are actually smoke distillates ( and not artificial flavorings or similar ) and thus should be effectively identical to this process , but quicker .
I have been told that cedar , white and yellow pine , and many other variaties are safe in normal quantities and have high vitamin content . Some have supposed medicinal effect for headaches , such as cedar . My advice is to look up " tea " or " infusion " with each type of needle you want to try so you can avoid a poisonous concoction . As for white pine , I have made delicious tea for breakfast and for the canteen with it while camping and have survived so far . It goes quite well with wild mint .
My grounds bin has a lid . So while the grounds still collect static , they do n't fly all over the place when I remove the bin from the grinder . Giving the bin few sharp taps on the counter top prior to opening seems to shake off most of what clings to the top and sides . Then I tap out the grounds , wipe out the bin with a napkin , and I 'm ready for the next morning . Beyond that , try switching up your coffee . The cheap " 8 O'Clock " stuff I keep on reserve is terribly staticy , while the beans I roast myself do n't have nearly the trouble . I tend to enjoy a lighter roast , so keep that in mind - you might benefit from grinding beans with just a bit higher moisture content ( of course , if you have a strong preference for dark roasts , this does n't help much ) .
I believe it depends on the source of the leaves . Kuding can be made from both a wax tree species and a holly species . I do not know about the wax tree , but teas made from holly do contain caffeine ( Yerba mate , for example ) .
When I add a bit of baking powder to the flour breading I use for eggplant , the fried result is a little puffier than without . Frying forces water out of the eggplant into the breading . That along w heat sets off the production of CO2 . The same should happen with your chicken breading .
<URL> tells us this is a myth : Many tea companies , and even some reputable entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture , have made misleading generalizations about the caffeine content of broad classes of tea . It is a widespread myth that black tea contains more caffeine than green tea , and another myth that white tea contains the least caffeine of all teas . They indicate that brewing method is the main determiner of caffeine levels in the brewed tea . The source article goes on to cite various credible scientific sources , which raise the credibility of this assertion . Unfortunately , most of their links have gone bad , which makes it harder to check the background science . This <URL> does indicate slightly different levels , but that is likely to be a result of different brewing details across tea types rather than fundamental to the tea plant itself .
Sugar is not critical to the pickling process - it exists primarily as a flavorant . <URL> preservation requires one of two methods - either immersion in vinegar of a sufficiently low pH to kill off unwanted bacteria , or through natural fermentation with probiotic strains of bacteria . Honey is known to have <URL> properties . When using natural fermentation , one might think that there may be a risk that the added honey will kill off probiotic bacteria before they establish a stable population , allowing other unsavory bacteria to grow . However , most brine-based recipes already include known antimicrobial herbs such as mustard seeds , garlic , cinnamon , or cloves . Honey should n't be any different than the addition of these spices . When using vinegar to pickle , there is no reason to be concerned about adding honey . Regardless , it is important to note that honey will have a distinctly different flavor profile from pure sugar . Perhaps try it in a small batch before committing to " large scale " production .
I 've been reviewing old family recipes , and I 've seen pickled onions called for in some soup , stew , and casserole recipes as an accent ; this may or may not be because my foremothers grew and canned loads of onions . It 's worth an experiment or two , I think !
It is not simply a matter of strong versus weak . Rather , different qualities are extracted from the coffee over different parts of the brewing process . The most volatile components are extracted early in the brew , and the less volatile components come out over the length of the brew . So the distribution of flavors varies over the brew . Total brew time is carefully calibrated in quality coffee makers to extract the most desirable flavors possible , and minimize the least desirable . By taking some out early , you are guaranteed a bad first cup , and are consigning the remainder of the pot to be less than it could be . For best quality , you should wait for the entire brew , so that the flavors are balanced from the entire brew time .
I suspect that the purpose of the double boiler is to bring the eggs up to room temperature , which is n't going to make that much of a difference . Most recipes would say that the process will take 10 minutes , but you may be able to speed things up marginally : Use a bowl that concentrates the eggs in as small an area as possible so your beater blades contact as much eggs as possible per rotation . A narrow , tall bowl is better than a wide , shallow one . If you do n't have that then tip the bowl you do have so it all concentrates in one area Use fresh eggs , I 've found that fresher eggs take air better . It 's true for egg whites at least , so I suspect it will be for whole eggs as well Let the eggs come up to room temperature before using them , that way you do n't need the double boiler setup , which will give you more flexibility when it comes to bowls . If you do n't have 20-30 minutes to let the eggs warm naturally then 5 minutes submerged in tepid water will do the same thing Other than that the only thing I can recommend is to buy a stand mixer or cultivate patience . Preferably both .
I enjoy the fruity herbal teas as iced tea . I brew a cup and then pour it in a cup of ice . It is a sugar-free cool drink that tastes and smells great .
I 've had this happen with other types of spices as well . I put it in the blender or coffee grinder to loosen it up again . Works well for me .
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
end question
start question
What does natural vanilla extract smell like ?
" Pure vanilla extract is made by macerating and percolating vanilla beans in a solution of ethyl alcohol and water . " [ Source : <URL> There is alcohol in it , that 's why it smells like it has alcohol in it :) So it is perfectly normal . Personally , I find extracts and essences of vanilla to be a complete waste . To get that lovely vanilla smell and vanilla taste , add vanilla beans . To combat the relative high cost of vanilla beans , buy in bulk and store correctly , your vanilla beans can last for ages .
The easiest way to measure a cup of flour is of course to take the measuring cup , plunge it into your bag of flour and just lift up a spoonful . The problem with that is that the plunging and lifting will compress the flour inside the cup and actually get you more flour than you wanted . If you spoon the flour into the measuring cup you minimize the compression and will get a more accurate measurement .
Ok ... I 'm going to ruin your day with this . In orange juice for instance , the process of homaginization and storage kills the flavor of orange juice , so the industry has enlisted the help of the perfume industry to help them . Each orange juice company has basically a perfume of orange flavors that it uses from the peels and rinds and biproducts that it uses to try to recreate the taste of real orange juice ... It 's why every orange juice brand tastes slightly different even though they are all " fresh squeezed " ( btw , they are technically fresh squeezed , they 're just then stored :) ) If you google " orange juice flavor packs " you can see what this is talking about . The flavor packs are incidentally made out of parts of the orange , so the fda has no problem with them ( sadly ) . <URL> So to directly answer your question , you can flavor something with fruit derived perfume and call it " natural flavors " Here 's a quote from the site : Juice companies therefore hire flavor and fragrance companies , the same ones that formulate perfumes for Dior and Calvin Klein , to engineer flavor packs to add back to the juice to make it taste fresh . Flavor packs are n't listed as an ingredient on the label because technically they are derived from orange essence and oil . Yet those in the industry will tell you that the flavor packs , whether made for reconstituted or pasteurized orange juice , resemble nothing found in nature . The packs added to juice earmarked for the North American market tend to contain high amounts of ethyl butyrate , a chemical in the fragrance of fresh squeezed orange juice that , juice companies have discovered , Americans favor .
Corn masa is what you need for this . The process of nixtamalization makes the corn more easily ground and therefore the texture of doughs made with it will not be " gritty " in the way that a dough made with corn meal or corn flour will be . Also , corn masa ( or masa harina ) is more nutritious than standard corn products due to the chemical changes that result from the nixtamalization process .
You could fold with a heat-safe silicone spatula , that will let you reach the whole surface of the pan so you do n't get scorching , without introducing so many bubbles . Or if you happen to have a vacuum machine , put your sauce in a bag after you make it and vacuum out all of the air . Voila , bubbles gone .
In sum : YES , sugar DOES really help to extract fruit flavors . The answer quoted in the edit does NOT imply that " absorption is slowed down " in general . It merely states that in a sugar solution , sugar will generally not move out of fruit ; it does n't say anything about what else happens . Osmosis is simply a process by which the stuff on both sides of a barrier tries to come to equilibrium . Increasing sugar content in a solution will only decrease the amount of sugar that comes out of the fruit , but it will often simultaneously increase the water that diffuses out ( along with many things dissolved in that water , like fruit flavors ) . In other words , in a plain water solution , sugar will diffuse out of fruit to raise the water 's sugar concentration . However , in most cases when a sugar solution is used , it is deliberately higher in concentration than the sugar content within the fruit cells ( as in the strawberry example mentioned in the question , where there is basically no water at first outside the fruit , so water is forced out to bring the system into better equilibrium ) . Sugar is very <URL> , which basically means it attracts water . If the sugar solution has a higher sugar content than the moisture within the fruit cells ( as is true in most recipes using this technique ) , water will diffuse out of the fruit . Anything that is water-soluble , such as various flavor components , will come along with it to some extent . Meanwhile , sugar will also be forced into the fruit , changing its texture -- when done in excess over a period of time , such a process can actually preserve the fruit by lowering the water content substantially ( driving it out into the solution ) while raising the internal sugar content of the fruit , resulting in <URL> . You may note that candied fruit generally lacks many of the flavors of fresh fruit . This is because many flavor components were extracted along with the water by the sugar solution . Regarding questions that were raised in comments , the same process occurs with alcohol in a solution . There 's almost no alcohol inside the fruit , so alcohol 's presence outside the fruit will force water out of the fruit , carrying flavors along with it . Alcohol also tends to dissolve certain flavor components that water does n't dissolve as well , so it will gather different sets of flavors than water alone . Note also that different flavor components will come out of the interaction of this osmosis process with the cell membrane compared to , say , simply crushing the fruit , again partly because some flavor molecules are more soluble in alcohol .
I believe the answer to the question lies in the last paragraph of your question . If you had close to 4 cups of broth , 1 1/2 cups of half-and-half , plus onion purée ( which would be mostly water ) ; you 're pushing 6 cups of liquid , not including any wine or brandy that you may have used . For that much liquid you would need close to a quarter of a cup of flour , maybe more , to achieve a thick soup if roux is your primary thickener . Many bisque recipes are thickened much with a purée of the protein . Did you purée the shrimp or some portion of it ? Look at this <URL> , she uses 4 3/4 cups of broth ( in the final soup ) , 2 cups of half-and-half and a roux made with 1/4 cup ( 4 tbs flour ) . She also purées all of the shrimp , which causes a thicker soup than chunks of shrimp would , and adds tomato paste which would further thicken the soup . For what it is worth , it is the flour in the roux that thickens liquid ( an extra tablespoon of butter is not your culprit ) , and the liquid and roux must be brought together to a simmer for the liquid to properly thicken . In the case of Ina 's recipe , she fully thickened the half-and-half before adding the stock and shrimp purée , that 's how she gets away with the final line of hot , not boiling . I would be inclined to add the stock and the rest of the ingredients except the shrimp just after thickening the half-and-half and bring that to hard simmer before adding the shrimp . That would give me an opportunity to taste and gauge the thickness the soup before adding the expensive ingredient ( shrimp ) last .
The problem is , the mass produced chicken most of us are used to does n't taste like chicken . The expression ' tastes like chicken ' is therefore used for most anything that 's not particularly assertive . There was an episode of Food Detectives , <URL> where they served a few different meats to professional chefs ( Alex Guarnaschelli and Aarón Sanchez ) , who had problems identifying all of the meats they were being served ... I ca n't remember exactly what all of the results were , and I ca n't find a transcript ; I remember Alex being distraught when she realized she was eating guinea pig ) . And the cooking show <URL> had a regular segment of ' name that meat ' , where he 'd have hot dogs , or jerky , and try to have people guess what they were . ... Part of the issue with substitution is going to be something that has similar cooking characteristics , but that you do n't have a reaction to . ( I 'm actually surprised that you 're allergic to chicken , but then listed other poultry ) Turkey 's likely the closest of the stuff you listed , particularly if it 's the mass produced stuff , it 's going to have a similar lack of flavor that most chickens sold in the US has ; duck tends to be richer . I have n't had any game birds recently , so ca n't comment on the pheasant . Alligator I 've only had a few times , and the only time in the last decade it was deep fried , so the meat did n't come through . ... For substitutions , it 'd depend on how you 're cooking it , and what part of the bird . For instance , in place of chicken wings , I might consider frog legs . ( although , it 's probably been 25 years since I 've had 'em , but I seem to recall them being chicken-like ... I just ca n't remember if they were like white or dark meat chicken ) ... but they 'd be closer in mass than turkey wings . For chicken breasts , I 'd go with turkey breast cutlets , so they 're closer in size . For ground chicken meat , ground turkey will work , just check to see if a recipe calls for a leaner or fattier mix , and get the appropriate turkey . Chicken thighs and legs are a little more strongly flavored ... rabbit might actually work , or duck or pigeon if you have a source .
I 've been making rum-based vanilla extract successfully at home for years . Here are my recommendations . Your basic ingredients are 80 proof rum , sugar and vanilla beans . At the recommended proportions , the rum and sugar are plenty effective preservatives . You can use either light or dark rum , but it should be a good " call " 80 proof rum and not a bargain bottom shelf rum . I most often use Ron Rico . If you use a golden rum , your extract will have a warmer taste suitable for spicy treats such as pumpkin pie or spice cookies . If you use a silver rum , your vanilla will have a purer taste suitable for whipped cream or custard sauces . I get rum that is bottled in glass , because I think plastic imparts an off flavor . Your basic recipe will use a fifth less about a 1/2 cup of rum , four vanilla beans and 1/2 cup of organic sugar . We 'll go through that first , and then talk about variations . Place your vanilla beans on a clean , flat cutting surface . Using a small , sharp knife , cut them first in 1/2 crosswise at the middle . Then take each 1/2 bean and insert the knife tip just 1/2 to an inch below the uncut end and carefully slice lengthwise to the send . Repeat this process gently and carefully on each piece unti each piece has four lengthwise quarters attached at the uncut end . Some recipes will tell you to scrape some or all of the paste out of the beans , but this is not necessary . The simply split beans will infuse the rum just fine . Pour out about a cup of rum from your fifth and set aside . Put your sliced vanilla beans into the rum . Use a funnel to add 1/2 cup of organic sugar . Use the reserved rum you set aside to top the bottle back up . Recap the bottle and give it about 20 shakes to encourage the sugar to dissolve . Set aside in a dark cabinet or pantry . Take it out and give it a few shakes every week or so . Your vanilla will be usable but not fully extracted in about two months . It will continue to strengthen in flavor out to about 6 months of age . Once you are satisfied with your extract , you can decant some and bottle it up in smaller bottles . It 's a very popular gift for bakers . Once you have tried vanilla extract made this way , you will never want to go back to store-bought . The difference is indescribable . You can vary the type of rum you use , silver or gold , and you can vary the sugar . I mostly stick with light organic sugar , because I think the taste is better . I like the combination of dark rum and brown organic sugar very well . You can also increase the sugar up to about 2/3 cup in a fifth bottle , but I would n't go above that . Sugar gives the extract more body and mellows the flavor . Check out Wikipedia to learn more about the various kinds of vanilla beans available . I use the organic ones from my food coop , but different kinds can be ordered online or found at specialty food stores . A number of cooking blogs have instructions on making extracts or tinctures of other spices . There is no reason not to create combination flavors .
" Shocking " the food stops the cooking process , preventing the food from losing its color and texture .
I ended up measuring the scoop spoon the next time I was in the US , and it turned out to be 1 Tablespoon .
I have the same problem and went through 3 different brands of milk , thinking they were UHT . However , after some experimentation I determined what I was doing wrong . In my case , after cutting the curd , and while the water was heating back up to 105 , we were stirring too much . The key is very slow gentle movement . Just enough to slightly move the curds , and not disturb them . " Stirring " will cause you to end up with a nice tasting ricotta , but not mozzarella .
Ice cream depends critically on the fat in the dairy to form the structure and mouth feel . Ice cream mixes there fore are typically fairly high in dairy fat . You have substituted a comparatively low fat mock cream . which simply does not have the fat necessary to create the body of the ice cream . In fact , the so-called homemade cream recipe is just thickening milk with gelatin , the thickening agent in ... jelly ( as they in British English , Jello in the US ) . It is no wonder that your product has a jelly like consistency . Also , gelatin is not stable for keeping its thickening ( gelling ) power when frozen . Derobert is also correct in pointing out that switching from a traditional churned ice cream to a hand stirred freezer method will also alter the texture radically , although it is likely to make it grainier and icier without the milk fat to help buffer the formation of ice crystals . Ice cream is a recipe where you do not want to substitute for the specific dairy called for in this way . Ice milk recipes do exist , and will perform better .
I suspect it means " ditto ( the above line ) " : <URL> seems to indicate that " do . " was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark ( " ) became widespread .
Anything that 's hard to get off of your counter can make a good food coloring . Regarding natural sources , remember that you run the risk of also adding additional flavors so take that into consideration . Among other companies , <URL> makes all natural foods including colorful fruit snacks . What they use for the coloring in these snacks are : turmeric , black carrot juice concentrate , and annatto . ( I 've cooked with turmeric and annatto before and they DEFINITELY stain . ) Aside from Google searches , you could probably find practical natural food dyes by looking in the ingredient list from other all-natural foods . Back to your specific question about beets , this is from <URL> : 1 Put your fresh beets in a glass or enamel pan with just enough water to fully cover them . Bring to a boil and turn the heat down a bit to simmer for 30 minutes . Make sure the water does n't boil out . Take them off when the beets are not quite done - When a knife goes into them but they 're not as soft as you 'd like for eating . Remove them from heat . 2 Strain the beets , reserving the beet juice . Peel , slice and chop up your beets . Return them to the beet juice . Soak for four hours . 3 Strain the liquid out and take out 3/4 cup . Add your 2 teaspoons vinegar to this . This is your red dye . 4 Use canned beets and you can skip half of the work . Drain the can reserving 3/4 cup liquid . Add 2 teaspoon of vinegar to this and you 're done . You can still eat the beets , too . The fresh ones are n't terribly appealing after this .
The beard is also known as byssus threads . They are the filaments that the mussel uses to secure itself to hard surfaces . They are usually brownish and may appear somewhat like seaweed . Most mussels commercially available have been farm-raised so often the beards have already been removed during processing . If you have beards , grasp them firmly and pull towards the shell hinge until it comes out . You may need to use a dry paper towel to increase your grip as they can be slippery .
Are you just using eggs for your filling ? Most quiche fillings are a custard , with milk , cream , or other dairy as well as eggs , and often cheese as well . It sounds like you are over beating your egg or custard mixture , and inadvertently incorporating air . In general you want minimum air in a quiche filling , so whisk or stir it briefly until it comes together , but not extra . Its harder to tell from the description , but you may also be over baking the quiche . You want to cook it until the center just barely jiggles , about 180 F / 82 C.
" Pure vanilla extract is made by macerating and percolating vanilla beans in a solution of ethyl alcohol and water . " [ Source : <URL> There is alcohol in it , that 's why it smells like it has alcohol in it :) So it is perfectly normal . Personally , I find extracts and essences of vanilla to be a complete waste . To get that lovely vanilla smell and vanilla taste , add vanilla beans . To combat the relative high cost of vanilla beans , buy in bulk and store correctly , your vanilla beans can last for ages .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
True , you may have cooked it too much and spinach is cooked when it reaches 160 degrees F . If the spinach overcooks , it does not necessarily mean it is bad , it is just overcooked . In my opinion , eat it , I have because mine did not taste bad as I understand yours did not taste bad . Now , another idea is that when you have smelly spinach , you might have cooked in on very high heat and you burned it or overcooked it , you could still eat it . Again , if it does not taste bad , it is ok to eat it . Another idea is that you used rancid oil , which using the rancid oil on the spinach would taste bad and you would then get rid of it . That would taste bad . Also there is the problem of listeria , which is some kind of a bacteria , I think , and the spinach is bad to begin with and will or might make you sick . Please look that up , lettuce also has that problem . I think the spinach would have a blackish hue to it and taste bad . Get rid of it . Lastly , what I read about spinach is that you do not re-heat cooked spinach , eat it cold . I make big batches of creamed spinach , my family loves it , takes it to their homes , nukes it , and nobody has gotten sick . I am no doctor , so take that info for what it is worth . Lastly secondly , I use frozen spinach to make dips . I make too much of that also and I make my own creations of that . My family likes to take that home also . What I do with any dip is put out smaller portions at a time and fill up as necessary . It is time consuming but as a safety issue it makes me feel good and when you feel you are doing your best to keep people eating safer , it is worth it . At very Last , use your judgement , do n't take chances . When in doubt , throw it out . I do what I do because I have a lot of experience , but that does not mean I do n't get into trouble once in awhile . Good Luck
end question
start question
How do I hold my knife to prevent blisters when chopping ?
Friction blisters are usually the result of continuous rubbing on skin that has n't toughened up . If you are getting blisters with normal amounts of chopping , either your knife is moving in your hand more than it should , or you are exerting more force than you should need . <URL> . Are you pushing down with the whole palm , the front of the palm , or the back of the palm ? Are you guiding or forcing with your thumb and forefinger ? Is your knife sharp and heavy enough for the materials you are cutting through ? Are you using a circular motion to chop ?
I suspect @Stephie is correct in thinking they may be over proofed . Having said that , you could try the method that is used when making crullers . Place shaped donuts on parchment paper that has been sprayed with non-stick cooking spray . Cut the paper into individual squares ( each donut should have enough space to raise without expanding off the paper ) . Let raise . When ready to fry , just slip the paper with donut into your oil , it should release right away and you can remove the paper from the oil with tongs . Here is a link to <URL> . You can skip the first 3 minutes that shows the mixing and piping of the crullers .
You can save yourself the waste of making double , while preventing cross-contamination , by using one hand ( clean ) to scoop and sprinkle , and one hand ( dirty ) to direct the spice falling , pat/tamp , and rub the spices . Typically I begin by applying a " glue " ( previously I have used honey and mustard , once I was vegan I went with just mustard ; both worked well on smoker ) to the cut of meat or vegetable before smoking or bbq . I follow applying the glue by washing my hands , then proceed with whatever rub I am using after the glue has had a chance to adhere ( typically thirty minutes medium , but I have followed instructions to let set and congeal for up to eight hours ) . Then , you can apply the rub following the method above : keep one hand clean to pick up handfuls of rub and sprinkle the rub down , use the other hand to press that rub you are sprinkling down against the cut . This sequence minimizes the number of steps , the times where you need to wash your hands , and makes for great bark . Hopefully you can rotate the cut with one hand , if not it adds one hand-wash . I started doing it this way because I hated having the spice turn into clumps from the moisture . Now I not only have no clumps in the spice after , and sanitary spices for further usage , but also a clean left hand for turning on the sink to wash my right hand .
I usually notice when cutting onions and tomatoes . With a very sharp knife cutting an onion does n't cause much tears at all . As it dulls though it does more crushing than slicing which releases more gas into the air , which makes you cry more . Ripe tomatoes help because they are so tender . If it becomes difficult to slice a tomato without crushing it , your knife is too dull . A well used , properly cared for knife should require sharpening every 6-18 months , depending on usage . Mine get sharpened yearly . You may find it beneficial to read these related questions , and their answers : <URL> <URL> <URL>
A glass of water in the microwave will result in less microwave energy reaching the popcorn . I use a large glass of water ( 8 - 12 oz . ) when I 'm softening butter because I want the water to absorb most of the energy . For popcorn , you may get by with 2-4 ounces of water . I 've also found that the amount of oil makes a huge difference . I sometimes pop popcorn in a paper lunch bag . If I do n't use any oil , I get the combination of burnt and unpopped you described . With a teaspoon of oil added to 1/3 cup of popcorn , results are a lot better . Perhaps you just need a little more oil to get great popcorn .
Yes , I 've heard this suggested , using wet/dry sandpaper and a mousepad . It is a very inexpensive way to match a whetstone , and you can use sandpaper with the same grit to produce an excellent edge . You duct-tape the sand-paper together so it wraps around the mouse pad , and then pull the knife along the sandpaper with the edge trailing . This is to say , you use sandpaper in the opposite direction as a whetstone . Once you work up to the finest-grit papers , you can use jeweler 's polish and a leather strop for a truly razor-sharp edge . Because the mouse pad 's rubber/foam has some give , this method produces a convex edge which remains sharp for longer that an V-cut , because it has more metal behind the edge . It also still presents a very sharp point for cutting , moreso than an equivalent V-cut front bevel . Using sandpaper will also cost a small fraction of what you spend on a good sharpening stone , which will run you $ 50 or more PER STONE . Wondering what grit to use ? There are comprehensive tables <URL> and <URL> . However , here is a quick-reference mini-table for you : Name / US Grit Rating / Use Coarse / 100-400 / Remove lots of metal . At the low-end of the range , used for reshaping blades , taking out large chips , or restoring snapped points . At the higher end of grit range , used to establish a bevel angle and restore very dull edges . Medium / 400-700 / Remove moderate amounts of metal . For refining an edge established with coarse grits , and for restoring moderately dull blades . Can be used to establish a bevel angle , but it will take considerably longer . 600 grit is a common point to start at for standard sharpening . Fine / 800-1200 / For finishing a blade or touching-up a slightly dull blade . At about 1000 grit , you will get something equivalent to a factory edge , assuming you use the same bevel angle . Ceramic steels have grits in this range . Extra-Fine / 2000 + / For polishing . Higher grits create a shinier and sharper edge , until at 8000 + grit you get mirror finishes and sharpness equivalent to a straight razor . If you 're going to bother using grits this high , a leather strop and polishing paste may serve you better than even a ceramic steel ; the steel would actually be reducing the edge sharpness with use . Source : <URL> Source2 : <URL> Edit : Another way to use sandpaper in sharpening -- expanding the grit range for a Spyderco Sharpmaker I 'm currently using sandpaper to make a very coarse stone for sharpening extremely dull edges on my Spyderco Sharpmaker . I wrap both of the normal triangular stones with a strip of emery cloth or 220-grit wet/dry sandpaper , and then hold it in place with medium binder clips . Since the lowest stone the Sharpmaker comes with is 800-grit ceramic , this saves HOURS versus using the normal stones . It is also considerably cheaper than the diamond stones they sell ; for a big tub of clips and a package of sandpaper , I paid $ 7 , versus about $ 37 for the diamond rods .
The easiest and best solution for the problem is to not dissolve it into water in the first place . Powdered sweetener keeps indefinitely . Dissolved sweetener falls smack in the middle of <URL> , so you have converted a shelf stable food into an unstable one . Assuming that you want to keep it at room temperature , there is not that much you can do . You can reduce the water , but I do n't know enough about the solubility of sucralose , it is possible that it is still susceptible to mold at the saturation point , just like sugar . You could try acidifying it sufficiently to stop the mold from growing . But then it will taste much less sweet , so you will have to add a much larger amount to your drink , several time the amount you normally use . Alternatively , you can acidify it less and use sodium benzoate as a preservative . It is normally used for industrially produced food , so I can not suggest the correct ratios of acid to sucralose to sodium benzoate . But note that simply mixing them in any old way wo n't give you a safe product , you may need industrial recipes for correct usage .
Pretty much everything I 've read ( <URL> ) says not to use wood , because the oils from the peppers will penetrate the board and transfer , and hold there indefinitely , even after thorough washings . <URL> is full of people with personal experience transferring the heat to later meals . That said , as with Jefromi , I 've cut hot peppers on wood before and not noticed any transfer . Specifically , home grown habaneros and jalapenos on maple boards . Maybe I 'm just acclimated to the heat and do n't notice , but those recommendations are not in line with my personal experience . I do thoroughly scrub my boards after use , but that probably is n't washing away any residual oils . If you really want to be safe , for example if someone in your house is heat sensitive or you have small children helping in the kitchen , you can dedicate a board to cutting peppers , or just cut peppers on a small plastic board and wash thoroughly after each use .
I suspect the blackness comes from the spices you put on the chicken burning . Try this technique I learnt from Jamie Oliver : Season your chicken as normal . Put the pan on a high heat until it 's hot ( not stupid-hot , just hot ) . Add olive oil and the chicken skin-side down . Cook for about 5 minutes . Meanwhile , take a square of baking parchment or greaseproof paper big enough to cover the pan . Fold it in half until you have a ' folded fan ' shape . Hold the point so it 's roughly over the middle of the pan , and tear off any excess that goes over the side of the pan . Unfold and you should have a circle of paper . Scrunch it up , then run it under a cold tap and give it a shake . Turn the chicken over , turn the heat to medium low , then place the wet paper ( a ' cartouche ' ) on to the chicken . Finally put a heavy pan lid ( the lid from a casserole is ideal ) on top . Cook for another 20 minutes . The moisture in the cartouche helps keep the chicken moist and prevents it from burning . Cooking time will depend on the thickness of the breast , so do check it 's cooked through before eating ( cut it open and check it 's not pink ) .
Aromatics are at least half of taste . Its like when you go to a restaurant and have to wash your clothes when you get home because they smell just like what you ate . Potatoes do n't have any particular dominating flavor , they generally inherit whatever flavor they are exposed to ; chicken is much the same way . Tuna on the other hand has a very pungent aroma . I would n't be surprised to see the fries take on the tuna aroma and " taste " a little fishy . Try temporarily covering your fries while you cook other things . That should help .
There 's no question that a 4 or 5 inch utility knife is going to see a lot less use than your chef 's knife or your paring knife , both of which have innumerable uses . The utility knife is a lot more specific , really being for cases where the paring knife is too short and the chef 's knife is too heavy or thick . I have a 4 " utility knife , which ( of course ) I got for free with a 6 " Sabatier chef 's knife . It gets used a couple times a week , for : scoring onions in order to mince them cutting limes in half ( a chef 's knife seems like overkill here ) splitting small peppers slicing large California shallots cutting cheese ... and similar occasional , accessory uses . Part of the problem with the 4 " utility knife is that it 's really a dwarf 6 " -8 " utility knife . The 6 " or 8 " utility knife , now commonly called a " vegetable knife " , is far more useful ; the long , thin blade is excellent for making paper-thin vegetable and fruit slices , and can be used as a fileting knife if you do n't have one . At the 4 " size , though , the utility knife is useful only for cutting things which happen to be small , and only if you do n't already have a more general knife dirty . If what you 're really asking is " can I get rid of this knife ? " , the answer is " yes " .
The way to ensue moist meat is to make sure that you do n't overcook it . It is really just that simple . Variations on cooking method are to achieve certain effects on the meat , i.e. searing to develop more flavor due to the maillard reaction , sous vide to allow you to cook to a specific temperature , ect . In the war against dry meat , a thermometer is your best foxhole buddy . That said , some cooking methods allow you to hit that temp mark easier than others . Typically , the slower heat enters the food , the closer to the specific temperature you will be able to get . Thus things like a braise more often result in a meat that is moist as the window between cooked and over-cooked is much larger than on something like a grill .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
Every time I make brownies , I always get compliments on how fudgy they are . There may be some variations based on the recipe you use , but the three things I 've found to be most important in my experience are : Do n't even think about using a boxed/pre-made mix ! Bake from scratch - it adds a whole 3-5 minutes of extra prep time for brownies , but the taste and texture would be worth it even if it added an hour . Use fewer eggs . I use the King Arthur Flour " Grandmother 's brownies " recipe ; I can only find an online copy for the 200th Anniversary edition , but those instructions are n't the same as the older version my mom 's cookbook has . The recipe calls for 2-4 eggs per batch ( a batch is a 9x9 " square pan ) , and instructs you to use more eggs for a cakier brownie , fewer for a fudgier one . I 've found that 3 eggs works best for me . Use brown sugar for at least some of the total sugar in the recipe . The King Arthur Flour recipe calls for 2 cups of sugar , either white or brown . I typically split 50/50 ; the brown sugar adds a nice flavor , and I think the moisture in it helps achieve that fudgy consistency , too . There 's another element to changing the consistency , too : cooking time . Most brownie recipes I 've seen say to bake for 35-45 minutes ; I almost never bake them for more than 30 because I find that the edges start to get really dried out . Undercooking slightly will keep the brownies moist and fudgy . The ingredients from the old " Grandmother 's Brownies " King Arthur Flour recipe : 4 ounces ( squares ) unsweetened chocolate [ can substitute 1-ounce square = 3 tbs cocoa powder + 1 tbs butter ) ; 1/2 cup ( 1 stick ) butter ; 2 cups sugar and/or brown sugar ; 2 to 4 eggs ; 1/2 teaspoon salt ; 2 teaspoons vanilla ; 1 cup flour
Ugh , I feel for you ! Just based on the description , it 's probably some type of flour beetle ( normally either red flour beetle or confused flour beetle -- but check on wikipedia for pictures ) . I 'm no exterminator , but I 've dealt with infestations of both in my pantry . The only thing that I 've found that works is to go through all food stored in the pantry ( including that in sealed packages ) and make sure that you throw out anything that is infested . I 'm not sure how you feel about chemicals , but at this point , I bug-bombed the house . After you 're sure that you no longer have an infested food , seal everything in plastic food storage containers . In theory , that should contain any further infestations to a maximum of one container . The other thing that I 've done is to store as much of my dry goods as possible in the fridge/freezer ... so stuff like flour is now stored in a sealed container in the back of the fridge . My exterminator has said that a lot of times the beetles come in a package from the grocery store ( a couple beetles in a box of pasta , for example ) and they just overrun/overpopulate as much as they can .
A pull-through sharpener will never do as thorough a job at sharpening your knife as a stone , and over time will lose its efficacy and actually dull your blade . In a pinch they can be useful , but be sure to give the knife a few passes on a good quality steel afterwards , as the pull-through sharpeners tend to remove metal quite coarsely .
The reason you 're seeing conflicting opinions is because there are a number of factors ( including steel composition , grind angle , grind profile , and usage ) that contribute to a knife 's edge-holding ability . German/European knives are made of a softer steel than Japenese knives - they need sharpening more often but are easier to sharpen because of the softness . Since the steel in Japanese harder , it needs to be sharpened less often . The other factor is the angle of the edge - the German/European angle is flatter than the Japanese knives . This means the German knives take ' abuse ' better on the edge and requires less sharpening because of that . You can see below that there are two different angles : As far as which requires sharpening less , I 'd say it depends on how general purpose your knife is going to be . If its going to be going through bone and all sorts of things , the German edge will probably stay a bit better and the softer steel will re-hone better . If you 're mainly cutting veggies , breads , cheeses , and other soft items - the Japanese knife will last longer because the difference of edge does n't matter as much as the steel here .
Depending on the type of honing rod and the technique you use for honing , you will remove more or less metal from the blade . You can confirm whether your rod removes metal by wiping the blade on a white tea cloth after honing . If you see a grey residue on the cloth then metal has been removed and you can decide yourself whether you want that in your food . Types of Honing Rod Steel rods , of the type that are perfectly smooth will not remove noticeable amounts of steel from a blade . Polished honing rods are used for straightening a curled blade edge . Other types have shallow grooves cut down the length of the rod that bite into the blade and shave off metal particles . Ceramic rods are slightly abrasive and will remove small amounts of metal . Diamond coated rods are used for sharpening in place of a whetstone and will remove relatively large amounts of metal . What technique you use for honing depends on what you are trying to achieve . If you only need to realign the edge of a well maintained knife , then two or three swipes on both sides of the blade , maintaining light pressure should be sufficient . If you do this with a polished steel , then I would be surprised if you need to wipe the blade afterwards . If you use one of the other types of rod , then you are also removing metal from your knife and you may want to strop the knife and give it a quick wipe after .
Many modern smoke/fire detectors have the ability to temporarily disable or decrease the sensitivity of the alarm for a short period of time , usually 15 or 20 minutes . At the end of the time period it returns to full sensitivity . You may want to look into replacing your smoke detector with one of these .
Professional bakers use straight razors . Chances are they are sharper than your knife , and easier to keep that way ( or cheaper to replace , at least ) . Also : wet the blade before making slashes . This helps lubricate the blade as it cuts , and keeps the cut bread from sticking .
end question
start question
Can Jam be reheated ?
Sure it 's safe , there 's no risk in putting jam in baked goods . It says refrigerate after opening so it does n't spoil after being left out too long - some people do n't realize it needs to be refrigerated after opening because it is stored in the cupboard before opening . The important thing for food safety is to make sure that the pastries are eaten soon enough after baking . The cream cheese will go off sooner than the jam will , so do n't let them sit around .
Yes , you can . If the frozen salmon is of high quality , there is no reason based on the food science that it should not work . Many of the recipes and articles on the web indicate that you should ( or sometimes can ) start with frozen salmon . Some , including <URL> , specifically recommend using frozen salmon to reduce the risk from parasites : Parasites , such as roundworms , can naturally reside in salmon regardless of if it was frozen or fresh . For safety , use salmon that has been commercially frozen or freeze the salmon yourself to at least -10 ° F ( -23 ° C ) for at least 7 days .
In this recipe , the nibs are being used as an accent ingredient , adding some crunchiness and a burst of chocolate flavor , as well as some bitterness . They are not essential to chemistry or overall outcome of the recipe . You may : Simply omit them Chopped or coarsely ground roasted coffee would have a similar profile , although not as fatty , and of course , coffee flavored Try another crunchy , possibly somewhat bitter ingredient like chopped nuts ; almonds , hazelnuts , and ( in some people 's opinions , although I dislike them ) walnuts have a particular affinity for chocolate .
I did actually do two batches with the two methods within a few weeks of asking the question . Just cooking it all together , then removing the skins and seeds with a food mill , is definitely a lot faster . Removing the skins first then pureeing , so that you only remove the seeds later ... well , though it is easy to remove the skin from each individual grape , time-consuming is an understatement unless you 're making small quantities . It took me a few hours for ( if I recall correctly ) 10-15 pounds of grapes . Including the skins has a moderate effect on the texture - it 's slightly thicker and more opaque . You get the feeling there 's just more stuff in it . As long as you 're cooking it fairly long , though , there 's not a very noticeable difference in flavor . On the other hand , if you 're using a recipe with pectin instead of cooking it down until it sets , I definitely prefer having the skins in , for both flavor and texture . So there 's some personal preference involved ; I do rather like the texture with the pureed skins . But if you 're doing large quantities , and the grapes are on the small side , and you do n't have help , you might want to skip it .
UHT ( Ultra High Temperature ) processing kills all the pathogens in the milk , so it can be conserved for a long time . However to make yogurt you add bacteria ( lactobacillus ) , so if there are n't other microorganism it should be even better .
Recipes for preserving tend to be very specific . They 're calibrated to balance factors like pH and sugar content in the final recipes , and of course to minimize the risk of spoilage . In general , you should always follow the steps as written in your recipe . What I 've generally observed is that jam-type recipes do n't always include the final boiling step because the jam is already cooked ( edit : and because <URL> , the sugar content is generally high enough to be inhospitable to bacteria ) . That differs from canning fresh fruits and vegetables which are largely raw . The purpose of the boiling step here is to kill off pathogens before they get a chance to settle in and spoil the contents , as no matter how well you clean them , there are likely to be some spores , bacteria , etc. remaining . Even a tiny initial population can grow and spoil your preserves over the length of time they 'll be put away . So , initial sterilization is always required to clean the jars themselves . The second boil <URL> the contents . If you 've already done this as part of your preparation , as with a jam , then it most likely is n't required . It probably wo n't hurt , especially if you plan to put up your jams for an extended period of time ( i.e. months or years ) but you 'll have to weigh the convenience of skipping that step against the potential risk of spoilage . That said , let me state again for the record that if your specific recipe says to include the final boil , then there 's likely a very good reason , and you should follow that instruction .
Imitation vanilla extract is meant to be used in place of the real stuff , and most recipes probably assume you 're using the fake stuff anyway , so you would use 1 tsp . You only need to adjust the amount if you 're using something like twofold ( 2x ) extract .
You can use agave nectar instead of honey or sugar if you modify your recipe a bit by lowering the amount of liquids . Agave nectar has more water than honey and is sweeter than honey ( about 50 % sweeter ) . Honey Fructose : 41 % , Glucose : 36 % , Water : 18 % Agave nectar Fructose : 53 % , Glucose : 15 % , Water : 25 % As a starting point in modifying the recipe , keep the amount of water fixed by using less agave nectar than honey ( amount of agave = 0.72 amount of honey ) . Also , dishes made with agave nectar will brown faster than those made with honey because of the agave 's higher fructose content . Start checking a little earlier .
Beer bottles should be stored upright . This is to minimize contact ( and hence oxidization ) between the beer and bottle cap , and ( for unfiltered beers ) to keep any sludge on the bottom of the bottles . ( <URL> ) Wine should be stored ( mostly ) on its side . This keeps the cork moist ; and a dry cork can shrink and allow too much air into the wine bottle . ( <URL> ) But note that : Champagne and other sparkling wines tend to age better if they are kept upright . The rules for liquor are n't as defined , but it should generally be stored upright . ( <URL> ) . It 's stored that way at the factory , and it 's shipped and displayed that way . Also for many " fancy " bottle types , the bottle wo n't even sit properly on its side . Also , alcohol in liquor can leak through - or even break down - whatever material is used for the cap . But it 's generally safe to store liquor bottles horizontally in the freezer for a time . It depends a lot on the specific bottle and cap in use .
Yes , it will " make it last longer in the fridge " for a certain definition of " last longer " : it will not mould nor infect other foodstuffs in the fridge if it does n't come into direct contact with any of them . Is it still safe to eat after a few of these re-heatings ? Very probably not ! Elaboration : More then half of the number of cells in your body are actually bacteria ; bacteria do n't generally kill you but the toxins they release is what kills you . E.g. Botulinum Toxinum D ( one of the toxins released during Botulism ) has an LD50 of 0.4 ng/kg , which means that you need about 500g ( a pound ) to kill 99.9 % of all human beings on the entire planet ... ( And that is for just a few re-heatings ; for " nearly indefinitely " we need to bring extremophiles in the equation ... ) <URL>
There are a variety of frozen desserts which are all related . The main difference between ice cream and frozen custard is the amount of eggs used to thicken the base mix . Philadelphia style ice cream is made from a base mix of milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings . French ( or simply plain ) ice cream is made from a base mix which is essentially a very thin custard or creme anglaise : milk and/or cream , sugar , and flavorings thickened with egg yolks or whole egg . The base mix is cooked to thicken , and then chilled prior to churning . Frozen custard is very similar to French style ice cream , but with a greater ratio of eggs or egg yolks to dairy or liquid in the mix . With this information , you can adapt nearly any custard recipe to be freezable as ice cream or frozen custard . My survey of frozen custard recipes indicates a ratio of eggs to dairy of about 5 egg yolks to three cups ( 700 mL ) dairy , or 6 whole eggs to 4 cups ( 1 L ) of dairy . To adapt any custard recipe for freezing , then : Adjust the ratio of egg yolks to dairy to no more than about 5 yolks per 3 cups dairy . You may also want to adjust the total yield to be based on no more than 3 cups dairy depending on the capacity of your ice cream maker . Many home ice cream makers have a 1 quart ( close to 1 L ) capacity , but you need to leave room for the air which will be incorporated as the mix is churned . I recommend not using whole eggs for frozen custards , as the yolks facilitate a better texture , and create the rich eggy custard flavor . Frozen desserts are served colder than custards normally are , so the flavors will be more muted . You may need to compensate by increasing the ratio of flavoring ingredients . This will be hard to judge until you have made the frozen custard/ice cream at least once . Cook the custard until it thickens on the stove top , per the normal custard method . Chill it rapidly for safety , and then hold it for at least 4 hours ( overnight is even better ) . While I can not explain the science , empirically , allowing the mix to mature lets the flavors meld and produces a better frozen dessert . Churn it into a frozen dessert according to the instructions of your particular ice cream maker . Note that you can even convert a custard recipe into a Philadelphia style ice cream by eliminating the eggs completely , and simply creating a dairy/sugar/flavoring mix . These still benefit from overnight maturation before churning .
Speaking as someone who 's had to prep ahead two garbage barrels of sweet potatoes for a giant gumbo event : If you 're just peeling them a few hours ahead , then just hold them whereever . Unlike russet potatoes , sweet potatoes ( especially garnet yams ) do not turn brown or lose texture on exposure to air . If you 're going to be holding them for a couple days , then drop them in cold water and refrigerate it . Or drop them in ice water and add more ice about twice a day ( this is what we had to do , it took 2 days to prep all the ingredients ) . Wrapping them tightly in plastic wrap might also work , but I have n't tried it .
I would use it for anything other than deep frying or high temperature frying . It would be great for anything that requires oil but not cooking , like hummus .
From <URL> There 's a difference between bubbles formed from under-proofing versus over-proofing . Bubbles from under-proofing tend to be flat but large in diameter . If unpopped , they can blow up an entire pizza . This is the process by which pita or pocket bread is made . Bubbles from over-proofing tend to be high but smaller in diameter . They rise up like little ping-pong balls and eventually form a hole at the top , at which time they stop expanding . They almost always burn . Most pizza bubbling problems are of the under-proofed type . To resolve a bubbling problem , dough fermentation must be adjusted accordingly . To stop bubbling caused by under-proofed dough , increase the amount of fermentation . To stop bubbling caused by over-proofed dough , reduce the amount of fermentation . In addition to proper proofing , it has been found that reducing the amount of water in a dough formula can help with reducing bubbling when dealing with the under-proofed type . The reduction in moisture aids in creating the pinpoint holes in the cells walls . In addition , you want to make sure you properly knead your dough . Some people poke tiny holes in the dough to prevent overly large bubbles . As a final resort you could observe your pizza in the oven and poke bubbles as they form .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
Sure it 's safe , there 's no risk in putting jam in baked goods . It says refrigerate after opening so it does n't spoil after being left out too long - some people do n't realize it needs to be refrigerated after opening because it is stored in the cupboard before opening . The important thing for food safety is to make sure that the pastries are eaten soon enough after baking . The cream cheese will go off sooner than the jam will , so do n't let them sit around .
Usually you can tell when Pineapples are ripen , which will be sweet , when Leaves are loose and can easily be picked from the top The shell has golden colour ( but not dark brown , these are getting rotten ) The aroma even from out of the shell is strong A typical pineapple that is bought green and unripen , takes one to two days to ripe well . Do n't put them in the fridge if you want to ripe them . Keep them out on the counter . As a street food vendor , we always keep them in the truck for one night prior to selling , that ensure the pineapples ripe enough and the juice comes out of it . Hope it helps .
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
The Cuisinart SG-10 spice grinder it designed to grind soft and hard spices . There is no reason why it could n't do coffee The <URL> even mentions nutmeg , which is significantly tougher than coffee Many coffee " professionals " like the burr grind ( like a pepper grinder ) , compared to the rotary blade grind ( like a small food processor ) , but either will work fine Also , many people grind spices in rotary blade coffee grinders , so it comes down to which style of grinding you like One issue with rotary ground coffee is the inconsistency of grind size . There will be too many fine particles that will leech out of the coffee holding/filter mechanism . If you do n't want solid particles in your coffee use a burr grinder
The historical purpose of jam is to preserve fruit from a time of bounty to a time when it is less plentiful . Therefore , to be a candidate for jam making , the fruit must be reasonably plentiful in the region where it would be preserved . Technically , in order to form a jam or a jelly , there must be sufficient pectin and sufficient acid in the fruit to thicken it . In some regions , there are traditional combinations of high and low pectin fruits , in order to get a viable jam from the low pectin fruit . Some fruits need acid , in the form of vinegar or lemon juice usually , added in order to help them gel ; others need additional pectin . <URL> has lists of high , medium , and low pectin fruits . Other than this , it is down to the cultural preferences in a given region .
end question
start question
Should a roast be covered in liquid in a slow-cooker ?
It does n't matter if it is covered or not . The inside of the slow cooker will be warm enough to cook the meat . Braising ( not submerged ) and simmering ( submerged ) are two methods which both can lead to good results . The " very chewy " result sounds like choosing the wrong type of meat for slow cooking . If it was a real roast , then this is the obvious problem . Roasts should be roasted , not slow cooked . If it was an actual slow cooking cut sold under a bad label ( these things happen ) , then probably it was cheap meat from an animal grown up without movement and slaughtered too young . You have to choose tough meat with lots of fascia streaking for slow cooking .
The fourth option is the correct one . The problem is that if you start with oil in the mortar , the pestle will slip and you will not be able to properly mash the rest . What you usually do is : Wash the basil in cold water . Put the leaves on a tea towel and leave them to dry ( you can delicately pat them with another towel ) . You do n't want extra water in the pesto , so be sure the leaves are dry before starting . Traditional pesto is made with <URL> . Start with the garlic ( traditionally <URL> ) and a few grains of rock salt in the mortar . You would generally put 1-2 pips of garlic for ~ 50g basil leaves , but obviously that is up to your taste ( if you were to make Provencal pistou you would probably go for a higher garlic to basil ratio ) . I generally remove the inner part of the garlic ( the anima ) before mashing it . Now add the basil and mash them with a circular movement . You have to be quite delicate when doing this . You 'll see a green liquid forming at the bottom of the mortar . Now add pinenuts and/or the walnuts and finally the cheese . A mix of 36 months-aged Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino ( sardo or romano ) is perfect for pesto . Finally add the extra-virgin olive oil slowly , while mixing . Put in clean pots , let it rest for half an hour , then if necessary cover with some extra oil . Whether you do this in batches or all at once mainly depends on the size of the mortar and how much pesto you are making . If you are making a big amount or have a small mortar repeat the steps for every batch ( I would wash the mortar each time , as it will be oily . Remember to dry it throughly before restarting ) . Most informations taken from : <URL> ( in Italian )
Anything will cook in a rice cooker , eventually . You will need to experiment with the size of the meat chunks . When the meal is done cooking , take them out and see if they are cooked and at the correct temperature . If not , finish cooking them and cut them up smaller next time . What I would do however is cube the meat , sear it , and then throw it in to the cooker . You will end up with a better texture this way .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
You do get some reflection of microwaves off a glass or plastic cover ( <URL> ) Do n't use metal lids . Neither glass nor Plexiglass plastic absorb much of the beam . The question then becomes : Does reflection off a lid slow heating more than retaining heat in an enclosed vessel speeds it ? Anecdotal , but experience tells me that using a plate over a bowl or a casserole dish cover routinely gives hotter , more uniformly heated food . Probably true for plastic wrap too , but I do n't use that in a microwave since I had a piece of it melt on me .
Nature has designed some food-stuff to last a long time . Grains ( wheat , rice , corn , oats , ... ) , which are the seeds of grasses , will last the longest , often more than one year . Seeds need a long shelf-life if the plant is going to make it to the next growing season . Next come roots ( onions , potatoes , ... ) , which need to last from one year to the next . Nuts , in the cooking sense , are seeds surrounded by a shell , will also last several years if they are dry . So almonds , peanuts , pine nuts will keep , but not coconuts or chestnuts . Other food types are going to need some help , which basically means getting rid of the water in the food-stuff ( lentils , beans , peas , chick peas , soybean , ... ) or slowing down bacterial growth ( through dehydration , freezing , irradiation , canning , cooling , ... ) I have cooked grains and dried beans and lentils from my pantry that were over a year old . They all made good meals .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
This should n't be a problem . What I recommend is to go in this order : Do n't pre-salt the food , other seasonings are fine but anything with a high sodium content should be left out Cook to your desired temp ( and I would recommend pasteurizing since it 's not a direct serve situation Pull food from bath and plunge immediately into an ice bath filled about half and half with cold water and ice to rapidly drop the temp of the food Once chilled , put in freezer to store , leave them directly in the bag your cooking with . If your using ziplocks I would suggest wrapping them in plastic wrap and then putting them back in the ziplock before freezing . When it 's time to reheat , repeat your sous vide process from the initial cook . It will take the same amount of time it initially took to bring the core up to temp + the time it will take to unthaw the food in the bath . Reheating direct from frozen is your best bet for quality . Post-sear the food and add salt at that point . Adding salt at this point will prevent the food from taking on a cured texture when it is frozen and held for a period of time . Enjoy !
Not in my experience . The water will spread out through the pan and meat will still cook evenly , just slower . You should n't have this problem with most meats , but it can be a problem with chicken breasts in particular , and if you also have vegetables in the pan they can release a fair amount of water . The basic problem with too much water releasing from meat ( or anything else ) when frying is that it reduces the temperature of the oil down to the boiling point of water . That kills the advantage oil has over water , that it 's boiling point is much higher . ( Higher in fact than the temperatures typically used in cooking . The bubbling you see when frying are caused by the vaporization of water . ) That 's what oil makes more efficient at heat transfer , it 's temperature is higher . This also means that it still should cook evenly , just slower , because the oil will be at the same temperature as the water . You 're basically just simmering the meat instead of frying it . When this happens the simple solution is to temporarily turn up the heat . It takes a lot more energy to convert water into steam than it does to keep oil alone at a desired cooking temperature . You wo n't have to worry about burning anything , because the water in the pan will automatically regulate the temperature , keeping it at or below 100 C ( 212 F ) . Once enough of the water has been evaporated you 'll start to hear normal frying sounds again and you can turn back the heat to normal .
It does n't matter if it is covered or not . The inside of the slow cooker will be warm enough to cook the meat . Braising ( not submerged ) and simmering ( submerged ) are two methods which both can lead to good results . The " very chewy " result sounds like choosing the wrong type of meat for slow cooking . If it was a real roast , then this is the obvious problem . Roasts should be roasted , not slow cooked . If it was an actual slow cooking cut sold under a bad label ( these things happen ) , then probably it was cheap meat from an animal grown up without movement and slaughtered too young . You have to choose tough meat with lots of fascia streaking for slow cooking .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
I 've found a <URL> on Walmart.com that has some interesting tidbits . For functionality alone , looks like a glass jar should do the job well . Something like this would have an advantageous shape to make cookies easier to reach , and the jar less prone to falling . One feature you may want to look for specifically would be an hermetic sealing lid , which would help keep moisture in the jar and slow down the drying . Same kind of jar that is often used to store flour , sugar , coffee , beans , etc. . Is light sensitivity a factor ? I do n't think it would be , in most cases , unless you kept your cookies in an area that is heavily lit by the sun .
It really depends on the texture you are looking for in your finished product . If you want a chunky chicken salad then bake your chicken breasts seasoned or not , I season mine , and then cube them . If you want something a little more exciting pan grill the breasts to the point of a little char and then dice . If you want your chicken to be flavorless and get all of your flavor from the mix you are tossing your chicken into , boil it or put it in a slow cooker if you are cooking up a big batch . It all really comes down to how you like to eat your chicken salad , and more importantly how pretty you want it to look in your serving method , because a cajun blackened chicken salad sandwich can look down right homely . I say try them all until you fall in love with one temporarily and when that has lost its passion try a different version . Also as a side note if I am preparing it for me and not for someone else , so it does n't have to be all white and pretty , I use thighs instead of breasts since they are more forgiving and generally cheaper . If I am not just breaking down a whole chicken and using the leftovers .
A few things ... I brine for 12-24 hours . It really does make a difference . Do n't bother browning the meat ... you do n't want a crust , you want the meat to break down . Make your own barbecue sauce ! There 's a zillion recipes , and it always tastes better . When I make pulled pork , I take the cooking liquid ( you are cooking in liquid , yeah ? ) and reduce it right down to almost a demiglace , and use that as the base for my bbq sauce .
There is n't anything that is necessarily " bad " or should always be avoided in stock , but some ingredients have qualities you wo n't always want . Dark greens ( spinach , kale , etc ) can make a stock bitter and of course greenish in color . Cabbage also can impart a overwhelming bitterness . Potatoes can cloud a stock from their starchiness , so they are not good when you want clear stock for something like a soup or consomme . Tomatoes may overpower flavors in a light stock , but are a critical component in most dark stocks ( browning tomato paste improves the color ) Onion skins add a deeper flavor , but yellow or red skins can change the color of a light colored stock dramatically . Skin and extra fat from the meat used is sometimes avoided to reduce the amount of skimming required later on ( I personally do n't skim , the extra fat does n't bother me ) The bones of very oily fish ( mackerel , salmon , and trout for example ) are usually avoided because they can make a stock too strong in specific flavors to work in any other dish . Oily fish stocks also tend to have an unpleasant odor .
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
It should be slightly duller than a fresh razor blade . Skill can make up for lack of sharpness , but if you do n't have the skills you 'll mash the fish more than slice . This is why instructors and surgeons can get away with dull knives ; they 've got years of experience cutting flesh . Traditionally , fillet and boning knives are sharpened to a shallower angle than general-use chef knives , to allow a keener edge . The only knife in a cook 's arsenal that should be sharper is the slicer , which sees rarer use , and needs to be super-sharp for thin slices .
Yes , for all practical intents and purposes , for flax eggs to congeal they need to be milled or ground to a powder and slurried with water , then introduced to the dish . After stirring and then letting set you should have a nice gloopy mess if you let it stand for a few minutes . I typically use a 1 part milled seed to 2.5 parts water , but typically ranges go from 2-3 parts water . You can use a mortar and pestle or coffee grinder for fast , thorough results . The exception to this is that <URL> ( this link will teach you how to use them to make hair gel , if you 're so inclined ) . This will cause the soluble fiber ( the congealing agent ) to dissolve , leaving behind the seed husks . Milled flax seeds do n't seem to be any less effective and no more distracting in terms of taste so , unless you 're doing up your hair , I just do n't see the payoff on boiling them . Another exceptional means to an exception to this is letting the seeds soak for approximately 6-8 hours . As I recall the person who tried this said it did n't congeal much , and was less sticky than a milled flax egg .
end question
start question
Is it safe to freeze ground beef one day before its expiration date ?
It 's fine to freeze , no need to cook if you do n't want to ; just be sure to use it immediately after thawing . Freezing things essentially stops the clock : food will stay just as safe to eat no matter how long it 's frozen . It can deteriorate but it 's more about drying out ( freezer burn ) , taking on odors , and so on , not safety . So since it 's safe right now , it 'll be safe frozen .
Here in China , it is normal to reuse tea again and again . Typically the first cup from the tea is bitter . Chinese people commonly pour one cup and then throw it away and drink the second cup from the same leaves . Workers here can be seen with a large mug or jar of tea . When drunk , they top up the water again with hot ( but not boiling ) water . This will go on all day . The next day , however , they will not reuse the tea . My Chinese wife always tells me off if I reuse the previous days tea leaves . She says they are bad for you , though I have never had any problem myself .
Unless you coat the popcorn ( with caramel , etc ) , I know of no way , other than SAJ 's vacuuming idea , which is quite a good one , imo .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
I did this in my restaurant for years , it really does work great . Make your rice in a huge batch , cook it as if you 're planning to eat it then , but then let it cool until handlable . Once it is cool enough , bag it in individual servings and freeze it . Refrigerating cooked rice quickly ruins it , freezing it , however , works great . If your servings are fairly small , snack sized ziplocks work great for this , otherwise use sandwich sized . Make sure you press the air of the bags , I take all of the small bags and seal them together in gallon sized ziplocks to give them one more layer of protection in the freezer . Either with the rice solidly frozen , or at lunchtime ( defrosted , cool rice ) , throw the baggie in the microwave . You do n't even have to open the baggie , when it pops open that 's a sign to check it . It may need a bit of a mix and a few more seconds in the microwave , or it may be done , it just needs to be heated through . The hot rice will be almost indistinguishable from freshly cooked . If you do n't have a microwave , you can drop the sealed baggie into simmering water , or take the frozen or cool rice out of the bag and steam it to heat .
The term " ground red pepper " is ambiguous in English . Things sold under that name in the US have a wide range of heats , and likely are made from multiple varieties of peppers , though I 'd say they 're more commonly hot things like cayenne , or other varieties with somewhat less heat . That said , do n't worry about it too much in these cases . Anything from mild paprika to cayenne would likely fit within what the authors meant , and you 're not going to harm a recipe by increasing or decreasing the heat , or by using a chile powder with a slightly different flavor . Just use something ( or a blend ) that provides the heat level you want , and you 'll be fine .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
Obviously hard to know for sure . The laws and guidelines dictate use of food grade equipment so if a piece falls off and ingested , it does little harm . If you cooked it , then you have even less to worry . As a precaution , I suggest taking it to the store and asking about it so other customers do n't trip on the same issue . Harmless or otherwise . If they do n't know for sure , then suggest to them to send in for a lab test . In descending likelihood , it could be : a piece of buna rubber broken off from a gasket ( grinding machine , or other ) . Not a hazard . It 's not far from chewing gum ;) a piece of meat that came in contact with the lubricant oil in the machine . Also usually food grade . They turn dark after a while . sometimes the meat branding ink on the outside ends up in the grind ( also food grade ) . Though they are usually dark blue . piece of old blood clot , liver or other organs . not likely here , but I have heard Listeria shows up black . Though i 'd imagine it would spread and look more fuzzy/furry . Most bacterium die during proper cooking .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
The <URL> clearly recommends not leaving cooking appliances unattended when no one is home : Based on 2006-2010 annual averages : Unattended cooking was by far the leading contributing factor in home cooking fires . [ ... ] Ranges accounted for the largest share ( 58 % ) of home cooking fire incidents . Ovens accounted for 16 % . At the time this <URL> was written , the Fire Administration said ( they have since updated the page ) : The leading cause of fires in the kitchen is unattended cooking . Stay in the kitchen when you are frying , grilling , or broiling food . If you leave the kitchen for even a short period of time , turn off the stove . If you are simmering , baking , roasting , or boiling food , check it regularly , remain in the home while food is cooking , and use a timer to remind you that you 're cooking . Stay alert ! To prevent cooking fires , you have to be alert . You wo n't be if you are sleepy , have been drinking alcohol , or have taken medicine that makes you drowsy .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
Not worth the risk , just throw it out . There 's no way to tell whether the smell was absorbed , or comes from bacteria in the food itself .
You did n't say where your product was packaged , but according to the USDA , " Use by " dates refer to best quality , and are not safety dates . This is especially true when foods are handled well ... in your case , factory sealed . Additionally , I ca n't see how the proteins would go anywhere . Given the reportedly good flavor ( not an indication of safety , but simply of good taste ) , I would use it .
end question
start question
Is it bad to boil milk ?
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
A great resource for how long foods can be kept is <URL> . <URL> , commercially bottled pickles ( and kimchee would fall into this category ) can be kept after opening for one year in the refrigerator .
To make sweetened condensed milk : The best make-your-own version is to mix 1 cup of evaporated milk with 1-1/4 cups of sugar in a saucepan , heat and stir until the sugar is completely dissolved , and let cool . If you do n't have evaporated milk on hand either , you can make your own by slowly simmering any quantity of milk in a pan until it reduced by 60 % , and then adding the sugar . Source : <URL> Another recipe that sounds like a lot more work and uses powdered milk : <URL>
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
I suspect " warm " is meant to maintain temperature , rather than raise it . My crock pots are too ancient to have anything other than " high " and " low " , so I ca n't assert any real authority . However , if you reach 145F within the first hour at the highest setting , then keep it at " warm " , and test the temperature after about 30 minutes with an instant-read thermometer and it stays around 140-160F , you 'll probably be fine . Personally , I 'd test the temperature first by cooking water . If the temperature stays above 140F at low , the worst risk you 'll have is overcooking . Beans and vegetables like carrots and celery can overcook fairly easily in a crock pot , but higher collagen meats meant for stews tend to be fine when cooked for extended periods . Most crock pot recipes for stews and soups usually hold fine when at low for a full workday , although that 's presuming a somewhat 70s-era soup aesthetic , which is probable for a crockpot recipe . However , I would be inclined to attempt the recipe using the low setting rather than reducing it to warm , if you 're not going to test the temperature first . If it turns out to be overcooked , you can always puree the ingredients with a blender ... I also doubt that switching to " warm " would be dramatically less likely to overcook the food than " low " , unless it holds at a pretty stable 140F , and low ends up somewhere around 160F .
This is a basic fact of food safety . It does n't matter how long each of the ingredients take to go bad separately . Prepared food will go bad soon unless you do something special to preserve it . In your case , you had hazelnuts , which do n't go bad because 1 ) they have too little water , and 2 ) bacteria can not enter their tissue , which is made of intact cell walls . You also had chocolate , which does n't go bad because it does n't have enough water for bacteria to survive in it . Ditto for sugar . Then you mixed everything together and added water , the one thing which was missing in order to keep bacteria out . And you also pureed it , which destroyed the protective cell walls . Bacteria found your food and started multiplying in it . To address your comment too : water by itself does n't usually go bad , because it has all the water a bacteria needs , but not nearly enough food content . So , bacteria can not survive in it , at least for a short time . Were you to leave out a mix of water and carbohydrates out , you 'd notice vigorous bacterial activity - this is what fermentation is . But there are some classes of bacteria which can survive on the minimal amount of debris caught by a water reservoire sitting around for weeks , and one of them is indeed pathogenic , causing a dangerous form of pneumonia . So , water does deteriorate , just not as quickly as the usual types of wet food , which are hospitable to many more pathogens . In general , all human food is great food for bacteria , often including pathogenic bacteria . You have to take something away to make it inedible for bacteria . Any mixture of two shelf stable foods can turn out to add exactly what the foods separately lacked , and make it a bacterial breeding ground again . So , never assume anything about food shelf life based on the shelf life of its ingredients !
Yes , as you said , the increased surface area makes it go bad faster . Not only that , but bacteria on top of the meat can now go to the middle with little resistance . Consider the expiration date of ground beef and whole beef slabs . Pork tends to go bad faster than beef , and freshly butchered pig smells of feces ( especially right beneath the skin ) , but they still go bad faster .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
It 's really a question of taste . It 's not going to hurt you , but there will be some undesirable effects . For example , to cook turkey properly , it must come to an internal temp . of 180 . If the meat is frozen , it is going to take a lot longer for the internal temperature to rise that high , so the outside of the bird will be somewhat overcooked ( compared to roasting a thawed bird ) . That meat will be much tougher than it would be otherwise . If your question is querying as to whether it will cause ill health , then no , it will not . My mom does it all the time . Her roasts are tough , though . I have done this , but only when I am braising the meat , or using a slow cooker , which will cause the meat to be tender either way .
Assuming that they are uncooked , you can certainly simmer your brats in beer ( do n't let them boil , that will burst them ) . I 'd try to get a hold of some Red Hook and use that . Simmer them gently until they are almost done , about 15 minutes . Simmering in beer will only intensify the beeriness of the brat . If you like beer , go for it . If you 've got time , do one in advance and see how you like it . You can dilute the beer with water or broth if you find the test brat too strong . Consider adding some whole spices , garlic and onion to the beer and simmering them for 10 minutes before adding the bratwurst . Here 's a <URL> for exactly that . ( That recipe looks outstanding , BTW ) Cover the pan and let the almost cooked bratwurst cool in the beer ( seasoned or not ) . The recipe I linked to says to cool completely , but just 20 minutes or so is plenty . By then any carry-over cooking is done , but the brats would still be warm . Then just grill or brown on the stove just for browning , they will already be cooked through , so it 's just the browning that you 're looking for . Just let your eyes be your guide and do n't go past medium heat ( again , they will burst if your heat is too high ) .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
The standard test for eggs is to slowly lower your egg ( s ) in cold water . If it floats , throw it out . The smell test will only identify severely rotten eggs , while the float test will hint at how well the egg will perform as a binder in baking recipes . If it helps , the FDA standard best-by dates are normally 1 week prior to the use-by ( which is the date the food is considered no longer fit to use ) . The standard use-by date for eggs in the US is 28 days after being laid . After 28 days the chances of bacterial growth within the egg are significant enough that they 're not worth using .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
Not really , but there have n't been that many studies in to the issue . An abstract of the most significant one can be found <URL> . To summarise , the study tested people who had drunk black coffee , coffee with milk , and coffee with non-dairy creamer to see how much of the phenolic acid ( one constituent of coffee that is supposed to have health benefits ) entered the bloodstream in each case . The study found that adding milk had no effect , but adding creamer affected the maximum concentration of the phenols in blood plasma , and the time it took to achieve that concentration . This kind of toing and froing over the health of certain foods is rife today . One minute coffee is bad for you , the next it 's good for you , and so on . For example , the study above assumes that the phenolic acids involved , being antioxidants , are good for you because they reduce free radicals in the body . Free radicals in too high a concentration can indeed be harmful . However , they are also an essential part of the immune system - when a harmful bacteria is found in the body , phagocyte cells will surround it and destroy it with free radicals , for example . Things like this mean that there is rarely a simple answer to questions of food health . Likewise , it has been suggested that people with a certain set of genes may be adversely affected by drinking too much caffeine , which may cause bone loss , unless they also have a source of calcium , like milk , in their diet as well , which would rather suggest that milk is definitely a good thing to have with your coffee !
I have also not tasted hoop cheese . All descriptions of it that I can find describe it as unsalted , pressed cottage cheese . While you can definitely press out extra liquid from acid set cheeses , the proteins are not as firmly set and the texture is going to be very different . I think you will find that using rennet is not much more difficult and opens a wide variety of cheese experiments . Junket also provides quite a few recipes and I have had success with many of them : <URL> This recipe for cottage cheese uses the bacteria in ( fresh ) buttermilk to acidify the milk . Then with the addition of rennet a curd forms that is much firmer than what you get with acid alone . Making their cottage cheese recipe and pressing it into a hoop should be easy enough for you . I use the end cap of 6 " PVC pipe with holes drilled in it as my mold and bungee cords for the press . For an excellent page on home cheese production in general check out this page : <URL>
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
Eventually , yes ... but it does have a fairly long shelf life . According to <URL> , you should expect 1 to 2 weeks after the date on the package . They say : You can tell if sour cream has gone bad if you notice dark mold on its surface , bright bacterial marks , pockets of watery liquid and a sharp , bitter flavor . First the liquid will begin to separate , at which point it can still be used but within a week you will need to throw it out when you notice mold on the inside of the lid and then in the product .
Taste them . Bouillon cubes contain enough salt to preserve them from spoilage , but the flavor ( which , after all , is why you 're using them ) may weaken , dull , and change over the years . If you still like their flavor , then go ahead and use them .
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
end question
start question
What temperature range is suitable for grill smoking ?
Do n't let the tail wag the dog . When smoking , you want to figure out time and temperature first and worry about smoke second . This can obviously vary widely . That said , there are things you can do to get more smoke going : If you can smell it , you 'll get some smoke flavor . If you can see it , you 'll get more . If you 're not getting ( much ) visible smoke then you need some combination of 1 ) wetter wood 2 ) lower temperature 3 ) larger wood . You get less smoke when the wood just goes up in flames . Chips are particularly prone to do this . Larger chunks smolder better . Things also smolder better when they 're very wet or the fire is n't so hot . But again , you want to figure out your temperature and then get smoke , not make large temp changes just to get smoke . If you 're doing very low and slow ( 225F ) , sometimes that 's not enough heat to get your wood smoking well . Smaller chips or higher temperature are the only things I 've found that really solve this problem .
Honey should be stored at 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit Honey is similar in to olive oil and should be storaged between 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit according to <URL> : Similar to olive oil , honey should be stored at a cool temperature between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit . So , it 's best to store it away from your oven or stove . Also , it should not be refrigerated . Extreme changes in temperature will spoil the flavor of honey . Looks like this confirms that you may want to keep it in a cool place and away from hot temperature where it would cause honey to degrade in quality . <URL> continues : Remember Do not store honey in a refrigerator or near a stove or oven . Store it in an air-tight container . Thus , choosing an appropriate container is an important part of the equation . <URL> has a great article germane to this topic . Refrigerating Honey In the <URL> , it talks mentions the crystallizing state of honey if it is refrigerated in no way it harms the honey at all . Restoring honey from a crystalized form I know this is not related to your question . But something you asked in the comments . Apparently , honey can be <URL> : placing it in the microwave for 20 seconds can restore it from a crystallized form . Therefore , you can store it in the refrigerator and heat it afterwards . The downside is that if stored in <URL> . Proper Storage Container Since honey has <URL> in it it is difficult for microorganisms to grow . Thus , an airtight container is of utmost importance . If moisture gets in the container it can be an ideal environment for mold and yeast to grow . Honey should be thrown out if it <URL> Long Term Storage of Honey Honey can be stored for long periods of time without any issue . Over time , <URL> .
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
Good lord no . You have no idea how the drumsticks were treated or with what chemicals ( cyanide derivatives are often used in pressure-treated woods , for example ) . No . No no no no no .
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
Veal cows are male . So the best place to get them would be from a dairy farm . You know they have milk for the calf and they have little use for bulls . <URL> lists some farms and source around the US . In most parts of the US there are farmers that will try to treat their stock humanely , but they tend to be local organizations ( for now ) .
Extra-Rare : 125F ( 52C ) Rare : 135F ( 57C ) Medium-Rare : 145F ( 63C ) Medium : 160F ( 71C ) Well-Done : 170F ( 77C ) Note : Extra-Rare and Rare are not recommended by USDA
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
According to <URL> : 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . Note : this is 55-60 C . The speed of the process will increase with temperature .
Seconds , not minutes . Just the act of pouring the water will cool it slightly . At sea-level pure water will be 100C at a full boil , the temperature will drop immediately when it 's no longer being heated . This is unscientific at best , but just for giggles I put an accurate digital thermometer into a room temperature mug , and brought a couple of cups of cups of filtered ( not distilled ) water to a boil in a saucepan . I poured the water into the mug and held the thermometer in the center of the mass of water . In the time it took for my thermometer to stabilize on a reading ( 30 seconds ) , the water was at 92C . I repeated the mini-experiment using a hot mug that I had heated by boiling some water in the microwave , and pouring it out just before I poured in the boiling water from the saucepan . This time after the 30 seconds it took my thermometer to stabilize , I got 96C . I 'd say that just by doing this ( with a warmed ceramic teapot ) , you 'd have your 96C if you moved quickly . Photo from <URL>
What you describe is grill basting - where a liquid is poured onto the grill and covered ( with a metal salad bowl or a basting cover ) to more evenly cook the food and maintain its moisture . The liquid is added towards the latter half of cooking , as adding it in the first half of cooking has no real beneficial effect . Additionally , the steam will melt cheese more evenly if grilling burger patties . Typically , this liquid is a stock ( chicken or pork stock if cooking chicken , vegetable stock if cooking vegetables and beef stock if cooking beef ) or water . On a personal note , I sometimes dissolve a pinch of salt in the water if I do n't have any stock available .
The water pan does affect humidity in the cooking chamber and therefore , it does change the how quickly moisture evaporates out of the meat . The question really becomes - " Will the meat be moist enough without the water pan ? " Which , to a degree , is personal preference . Some choose to not use a water pan and baste instead , some use both and some neither . I would recommend trial and error . Brisket is relatively pricey so I would recommend using pork shoulders . Smoke one with the pan and one without and see if you think the moisture content is satisfactory . The briskets wo n't cook exactly the same but the relative moisture level in the shoulders should give you a decent estimate . I personally always use a water pan , but I do n't usually fear meat from a smoker being " too moist " , and it does wonders for temperature stabilization . I also have a larger smoking chamber than a WSM so it 's possible that too moist is a larger concern for you . One last note , while cooking too hot for too long will inevitably dry out your meat , cutting a brisket or shoulder without letting it set for at least an hour ( ideally 2 ) after cooking will also dry it out .
There 's a lot of range of acceptable outcomes for this , so let me give you the parameters I work with . I generally start by mixing the cauliflower with some oil ( olive oil typically ; others substituted depending on the flavor profile I want ) on a baking sheet , then sprinkling with salt . This part is important ; if you skip the oil , you 'll likely just end up with dried out cauliflower . So every other bit of guidance I give is based on that . Additionally , it 's important to try to spread out the cauliflower so that it makes just a single layer . 350F works well when I do n't want to pay much attention while roasting . It usually takes 30-60 minutes , depending on how finely I break the florets . Larger pieces take longer . I usually check it every 15 minutes or so and flip pieces around . In most cases , you 'll get more gentle browning with this temperature than with higher temperatures . You 'll probably get the softest , sweetest cauliflower this way . If you are more impatient but you are willing to check on the cauliflower more frequently , you can easily go up to 425F . I can shave off a fair amount of time , and I 've had good results with even large pieces cooking fairly quickly , often in the 25-40 minute range . The caveat is browning is much more aggressive , and you need to rotate pieces more frequently , possibly every 8-10 minutes . You will often get a more caramelized result than with lower temperatures , and you may find cooking slightly less even . I sometimes prefer this because I like a balance of chewy and soft texture and I like the extra caramelization on the surface . Generally seasonings other than salt are best added near the end of the cooking process so that you do n't burn them ; spices , herbs , and garlic in particular ca n't typically handle much more than about 15 minutes baking .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
Generally speaking , frying gives a better crust due to the higher direct heat producing more Maillard flavours . A good , heavy , screaming hot pan is required . Oil the steak , not the pan , with vegetable or groundnut oil ( olive oil will burn ) , and baste with butter towards the end for extra flavour . If your steak is thick , you might try a reverse sear - roast the steak at about 150 ° C until the centre is 10 ° C off your desired doneness level ( if you do n't have a digital probe thermometer , invest the small amount they cost , it is completely worth it ) , then sear the outside on your mega hot pan . This avoids you having to overdo the outside just to get the inside right .
You ca n't just pick up any old wood chips but you can get ones for cooking at the hardware store . Even Home Depot or Lowes should have wood-for-smoking available . You have to be careful since if you get chips made out of treated lumber for example the resulting smoke could be poisonous . Probably not something you want to eat . You also want to avoid poisonous wood or trees . Warnings aside , you can use just about any non-poisonous hardwood to make woodchips . Just make chunks or chips out of nice dry seasoned logs . Usually , people use wood with interesting favors to add such as fruit tree woods ( apple , pear , cherry ) . Other popular woods are mesquite , hickory , or maple .
Honestly , do n't grill . Do n't run away ! Hamburgers were originally cooked in pans , not on grills . One of the reasons for this is thta with grilling you lose any fat and moisture that comes out of the burger . So I use Heston Blumenthal 's method now . While I tend to ignore the preparation elements ( I have neither the time nor the money to hand-grind my burgers with a specific ratio of this cut to that cut to the other cut ) , the cooking method is flawless : Make your burgers . Over very low heat , place a pan with just a little oil ( or bacon/duck fat , which is lovely ) . introduce burgers to pan . As soon as they release easily from the surface , flip . Thirty seconds later , flip . Repeat until cooked through . ( fifteen to twentyish minutes ) . This will give you the juiciest , most tender burgers you have ever had in your life . I promise . Essentially what you 're doing is basting the burgers in their own fat . Alternatively , if you have an immersion circulator , cook your burgers sous vide and then just mark on the grill when done . I 've had burgers done this way and they are excellent . Burgers will flare on the grill -- that 's all the fat ( and therefore flavour ) being squeezed out by the action of cooking and burning away .
Flavor in most meats is generally determined by a few things . How the animal was raised and if it is of a particular heritage breed , how it was treated over it 's lifetime ( i.e. diet and environment ) , when and how it is slaughtered , how it is handled from the slaughterhouse to the butcher , was it properly stored , etc. . Also , how fatty the bird is and light to dark meat ratio will also determine flavor of the bird . I definitely have tried a lot of different types of " free range " , " organic " , and/or " local " chickens out there and you basically get what you pay for in terms of meat quality and flavor . At my restaurant we try to source best quality chickens , local , organic and free range if possible because it just tastes better and it coincides with our philosophy . Properly cooking and seasoning the chicken will also help .
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
end question
start question
Where can I bulk-buy cheap parmesan ?
The price of genuine-sealed-and-certified parmagiano reggiano is quite high and fairly consistent , especially for more aged varieties . I think your best bet to save money will be to use a similar parmagiano reggiano cousin , such as grana padano , romano , or a quality Argentinian reggianito . As a second-tier approach , you might look at domestic Parmesan , but use caution as it may not have the same quality as a one of the Italian imports . As for genuine Parmesan : you 're buying at least a couple hundred dollars of cheese , and this gives you some bargaining power . Buy or ask to taste a small sample of whatever you 're considering , and try to negotiate ; managers may be willing to offer you a bulk discount . I 'd gather a couple quotes from cheese shops , try prices at your local Costco/Sam 's Club , and talk to the upscale grocery stores in your area . As far as pricing goes , I 've seen genuine-seal-and-everything Parmagiano Reggiano on sale at about $ 12-13 / lbs at my local Southern Season . I generally expect to pay $ 18-22 / lbs at upscale grocery stores for Parmesan , with remarkably little variation between stores . Your standard grocery stores tend to sell small blocks of inferior-quality and freshness Parmesan for similar prices . In contrast , grana padano runs around $ 12-13 / lbs on average at my local Trader Joe 's , and might be available for under $ 10/lbs with a good sale . I usually buy blocks of that for general cooking use , as it is close enough in taste and much cheaper .
What I do is use a big plastic bowl . The bowl is about 18 " in diameter at the top and holds about 2 gallons of water . I fill the bowl about 1/2 to 2/3 full of blueberries and then fill it to the brim with water and leave the water running into it . As the bowl is filling and when it 's full I gently agitate the berries with my hands . Most of the chaff naturally floats to the top and spills over the edge of the bowl . As I agitate the berries , I also try to direct any leaves to the edge and pull any berries back from the edge . I lose a few good berries , but not too many and since I 'm dealing with a lot of them I do n't worry about it too much . As I 'm agitating the berries , I can feel a lot of the squishy ones and pull them out to look at them and discard if they 're too far gone . When most of the chaff is gone , I dump the berries into a colander and let them drain . I 've tried spinning them in a salad spinner , but for the amount of berries I 'm trying to process , I 've found that in order to remove any appreciable amount of water I can only put a small amount at a time in the spinner so it takes forever to spin them all . So I let them drain , and then since I 'm usually freezing these berries , I put some paper towels down on a tray and spread out a layer of berries . When they 're spread out I can pick out most of the squished or shriveled ones that I missed earlier , then I pull the paper towels out and freeze them . I have n't ever looked for one , but I 've always wondered if there 's such a thing as a colander or sieve or screen with really big holes - i.e. just slightly smaller than a blueberry - that I could just dump the berries into and rinse off all the debris . One big limitation to this technique is that it bogs down if you 're dealing with less than fresh berries . Picking out all the squished or moldy ones if they 've been sitting around too long is problematic .
Scarface was the nickname of the early 20th century American organized crime boss , Al Capone . He was slashed in the face while working at a New York City nightclub . The injury left a scar that led to the nickname . <URL> Capone 's parents immigrated from Italy , and it is said that he enjoyed eating Italian foods . The notoriety and name-recognition of Al Capone ( a.k.a. Scarface ) has resulted in it being chosen , in one form or another , as the name for many restaurants and pizza parlors over the years . Naming a dish " Scarface Pasta " is but a natural extension of that line of marketing . It is however , merely someone 's suggestion of what Al Capone might have ordered -- something that sounds cute on a menu , but may actually be nothing more than spaghetti with sauce .
Most cakes freeze extremely well -- especially cakes that are not iced , such as bundt cakes . Wrap the cake in plastic wrap , then aluminum foil , and freeze . For cupcakes or slices , you can put them in a freezer bag . If you are going to freeze a whole cake , it is better to frost it after thawing , as the icing can be tricky . If you have icing , you can put the cake in the freezer long enough for the icing to br firm , and then wrap and freeze -- however , thawing can be tricky as you might get a bit of condensation , which can affect the texture of the frosting . EDIT in response to question about a plastic box , and why the double layering : Boxes consume space extra space , often at a premium in a freezer , and offer air gaps in which freezer burn is more likely . Not all plastic is food-safe . The food-safe plastic wrap is for direct contact with the cake but is gas permeable . I suppose you could just go directly to foil , but things are more likely to stick to it . The foil provides a gas and moisture barrier ( and light , but that is less of a problem in the freezer ) . The direct contact with the with the cake eliminates the air gaps , making freezer burn much less likely .
I will generally reuse a plank on two conditions : The bottom is n't completely charred . Sometimes , the bottom ends up complete black . I find that this wo n't start to smoke a second time . It 's also a mess to store anywhere . The top is n't a mess of food . This is largely dependent on what you cook . Fish skin sometimes gets cooked on , glaze bubbles and chars , oil lights on fire and the top surface chars . Something like shrimp , tomato , or sausage will be fairly clean though , and nothing will cook on to the top . In order to reuse the plank , I clean it with soap and water , the same way I 'd clean a wooden chopping board . I 've never managed to use a plank more than twice and I usually just toss them after a single use . Keep in mind that a dried cedar plank is a dried cedar plank . Cost is generally more based on the store that you buy it in than the product you 're buying . A hardware super store ( like Home Depot ) will generally have these quite cheap .
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
You need to use Kali Jeera rice available in most Patel stores or big indian stores . We were also looking for this and avoiding Kali Jeera thinking it is some black rice whereas it is not . This is rice used in Nor Malabar chicken biriyanis . And no need to mention that ghee rice or biriyani prepared with Kali Jeera rice tastes way better than normal Basmati rice .
Yes , you can freeze parmesan cheese . Even without freezing , Parmesan is very durable since the low water and high salt content prevents mould from growing . The younger varieties may be more prone to mould growth ( having a higher water content ) , but I 've kept ripe Parmesan ( 30-36 months ) for at least a year in the fridge without problems ( and it would probably have stayed good much longer ) . Just remember to keep it wrapped in paper , not in a sealed plastic container to prevent a buildup of condensation .
Strangely enough , I do live near Campinas ( where UNICAMP belongs ) , where water once " was " <URL> ! ( non-english site ) , what a coincidence ! I 'm noticing the local water smell is terrible in chlorine , I wonder they 're adding water in milk or cows are drinking thw water , very strange ... I will buy milk from differente towns and test this again .
There 's a serious dearth of information about the differences between the Henckels product lines , but from what I can tell : The biggest difference is the handle design , which impacts the balance . You 'll want to hold the knives to find which is right for you . Stamped blades are used in the following lines : <URL> , Twin Gourmet , International Everedge , International Everedge Plus , International Fine Edge Pro , International Fine Edge Synergy , International Eversharp . Source : <URL> . Forged blades are used for the following lines : Twin Profection , Twin Four Star and Four Star II , Twin Cuisine , Twin Professional S , Twin Select , International Classic , International Forged Premio , and International Forged Synergy . Sources : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> Microserrated blades are used in the following product lines : Eversharp Pro , Everedge , Everedge Plus ( Source : Henckels International website ) All but the Twin Cermax line are X50CrMoV15 steel , hardened to 54-56 HRC ( some reports say up to 57 Rockwell C ) . This means they 're slightly softer than Wusthof ( which now hardens many of their products to 58 HRC ) , but less brittle . Twin Cermax uses special , superhard ( 66 HRC ) MC66 steel , meaning they take a sharper edge and hold it MUCH longer than the other lines . This is probably a clone of the ZDP-189 supersteel . ( <URL> ) The microserrated blades aid in slicing , but hurt the ability to chop and mince . They WILL help retain a cutting edge longer , but also can not be sharpened normally . Edit : Personally , I 've not been impressed by Henckels knives . Wusthof knives strike me as better quality at a similar price , and Victorinox is almost as good but a lot cheaper . Why do I say this ? Well , Wusthof blades are n't as thick and unwieldy as Henckels , and they harden the steel to 58 Rockwell , so it takes a better edge . Victorinox is comparable hardness to Henckels , but about half the price , and the shapes of the blades just seem so perfect , with a deeper belly to slice thick items , and awesome grippy Fibrox handles . Edit 2 : 5 March 2016 - Henckels appears to have moved to a 57-58 HRC steel standard now for many of their blades , and switched to a narrower 15 degree bevel . This means they are capable of finer cuts , but the edges may be a tad more fragile . Twin Profection is now 60 HRC . This means that steel-on-steel , the knives should now be competitive with Wusthof . The Twin Signature and International Forged Classic still use the inferior 53-55 HRC steels . Victorinox has also raised the prices on their Fibrox-handled knives . Personal opinion , they 're still a much better value than Henckels , but Henckels may be more competitive with Wusthof now .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
How about Ruhlman 's book , <URL> ? The entire work is dedicated to breaking cooking down into ratios , and it includes recipes . I hear the bread recipe is particularly good .
The theory is to pasteurize them sous-vide at 57ºC for 1:15 ' . You must be able to control the temperature , so specialized equipment is needed ( ronner or similar ) . The resulting egg has a different texture than ordinary ( and I believe it tastes more ' yolky ' ) . I 've kept homemade mayo for more than two weeks without problem ( off smell / taste ) . Custards are heated , so no pasteurized eggs are needed , just like hollandaise sauce .
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
I tried freezing tzatziki sauce but was n't happy with it when thawed as it seemed to separate easily and even when mixed thoroughly it seemed to have a different , more watery texture than when fresh . What I do now if I have cucumbers I need to use is to prepare and process them exactly as I would for fresh tzatziki sauce . I freeze the processed cucumber in 1/2 or 1 cup containers and thaw to make fresh tzatziki sauce . Works great and the added bonus is that it does n't take up as much room in the freezer .
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Hotel pans are primarily used in institutional settings because everything is already made to fit them . Steam tables , prep coolers , etc , are all made to fit hotel pans and their fractional sizes . While I agree with the comments that they are n't generally the best pan suited to many tasks , they are great because they are fairly inexpensive and can be stacked and nested so easily . There are not , however , any specific sizes that you must have . Even restaurants only buy sizes that they need for specific tasks . For instance , I have worked very few places that had more than one or two full sized hotel pans , as those are usually only used as the water-holding layer of a steam table ( or occasionally to do roasts and the like ) . Basically , get the sizes that you think you will use . For instance , if nothing bigger than a 1/2 pan will fit in your oven , do n't get any full pans . If you primarily want them for refrigerated storage , only get the plastic cold table pans and lids in sizes that will fit in your refrigerator . If you are primarily using them for storage , I 'd highly recommend getting Cambro or Carlisle storage containers instead . They come in standardized sizes , have color coded lids , and nest neatly . They also have snug fitting lids , which hotel pans lack . The plastic cold table pans generally have loose lids that work in institutional settings for things that wo n't be stored longer than a few hours , but would n't be practical at home .
Pecorino Romano is a heavily salted , aged cheese . As a result , it tends not to " melt " , just as feta , haloumi , and queso fresco tend not to melt ( all are also heavily salted cheeses ) . Presumably mizithra or ricotta salata would work equally well in the ATK recipe , although they would n't taste the same . If you inadvertently purchase a different kind of pecorino ( sardo , for example ) , or even a fairly young pecorino romano , you 'll find that you have the " gooey mess " problem with that procedure . Now , a comment : the ATK recipe for Cacio e Pepe sounds bizarre to say the least . The normal way of making Cacio e Pepe is : Cook pasta normally . Drain pasta , leaving it slightly damp . Toss pasta in a room-temperature bowl with lots of grated cheese and ground pepper . If you follow the traditional recipe , then you can use a wider variety of grating cheeses without worrying about it becoming a gooey mass .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
end question
start question
How long does a pack of raw , dried Indian papad keep once opened ?
I have n't really experimented , but if imagining how dry that stuff is and the amount of salt that goes inside one those , I would say in the months/years range . Just keep it in a cool dry place . .
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
I ca n't speak specifically to the shelf life of salami , especially considering all of the factors that come into play ( source , type , age , storage , etc. ) , but when dealing with meat in general , you should never eat it if it smells or tastes " off " . Smell is really the most reliable means of determining whether or not meat is still good - far more reliable than the use-by date . It 's unusual for meat to smell or taste sour as a result of foodborne bacteria ; sourness is more likely to be due to rancidity of the fats , which is of course equally dangerous , albeit in a different way . Oxidation is very likely if the meat was not properly wrapped and/or stored in an airtight container . Of course , many people have trouble telling the difference between spoilage due to rancidity and spoilage due to bacteria , and so what you 're perceiving as rancid ( sour ) may really be bacterial spoilage . Either way , if it tastes off , it 's spoiled ; do n't eat it .
It does n't go into the meat , it soaks up water and becomes a slurry . The slurry is transparent , so you do n't see it . If you fry it as it is , you wo n't prevent spraying and sticking the same way it would have been possible with a dry flour layer . If you roll it again , you will have these effects again , plus slightly more heat buffering because of the double amount of crust . The crust will be more noticeable in taste , towards schnitzel style . In general , you do n't want it to happen at all . If you miss your timing and it happens , re-roll . But the proper way to do it is to roll each piece separately , directly before dropping it in the pan . This gives you the optimal effects from the flour with minimal change in taste . If you want the benefits and taste of a thick crust , make a real schnitzel , including pounding the meat thin and making several alternating layers of egg and flour in the crust . Double dipping in flour is not a good approximation , it is a middle thing which does n't approach the good parts of either technique .
Yes , you can store an opened pack of dried yeast without a problem . Seal the pack as well as you can ( plastic clips for just that purpose are very common , or you can just use an office ' bulldog ' clip ) , and put it in the fridge .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
First of all , cooking times are always only guidelines . The rule is always , " Cook it until it 's done " . The <URL> suggests a finished internal temperature of 165 F ( 74 C ) . USDA recommends cooking whole duck or goose to a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F as measured using a food thermometer . Check the internal temperature in the innermost part of the thigh and wing and the thickest part of the breast . When cooking pieces , the breast , drumsticks , thighs , and wings should be cooked until they reach a safe minimum internal temperature of 165 ° F. So , the answer to your question is that you cook it until enough time has past that the goose is 165 F. . . With the caveat that your target temperature may be lower than the USDA recommendations because we all love eating rare meat . From an <URL> of The Splendid Table , Hank Shaw mentions his recommended target temperatures for different parts of a goose : HS : The first thing you need to know is the sweet spot of cooking a goose breast is somewhere around 135 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit internal temperature . LRK : It 's pink ? HS : It 's pink , yes -- medium-rare to medium . The sweet spot for the legs is somewhere around 175 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit , give or take , they 're pretty forgiving . That 's a huge spread in temperature . He achieves this temperature difference by removing the breasts half-way through cooking and returning the rest of the bird to the oven until the higher temperature is reached . Note , the temperature of the breasts is below the recommended temperature , so there is likely some amount of risk with eating it this cool . The entire method is explained in the link and it 's pretty fascinating . While he gives estimates of time ( 45 minutes for breasts plus 45 minutes more for the remainder ) which are quite a bit lower than your two recipes despite being for a lower oven temperature ( 325 F ) and a larger bird 12-16 lbs , it 's possibly due to the target temperature being so low for the breasts and , once they 're removed , the remainder of the bird would probably cook more quickly . To address the methods you 're looking at , I 'm going to convert the recipes to be in the same units : Ramsay - 450 F for 10 minutes followed by 9/15 min/lb at 375 F Food Network - 450 F preheat then 20-25 min/lb at 350 . Now , let 's look at your two recipes ... Ramsay : Stuff the zested fruit and the herb sprigs inside the bird and set aside for at least 15 mins . Can be done up to a day ahead and kept refrigerated . Food Network : Rub inside cavity with lemon juice . Place apple , potato , orange and celery inside the body cavity . Truss the bird like a turkey . I 'm going to guess that the apple , potato , orange and celery combo may be more dense than seven lemons/limes . If it is , it 's probably going to retard the cooking time a bit . This may explain some of your difference in cooking times , so you should keep that in mind . I do n't know how you 're planning to prepare your bird but the filling may change the cooking time . Also , that big 450 F burst for 10 minutes is a big difference over simply raising the oven to that temp and immediately lowering it . When you open the oven , a lot of the air will leave , causing the air temp to drop a bit . If you immediately lower the temperature , it will drop to 350 F pretty quickly . With Ramsay 's method you 're actively cooking the bird for 10 minutes at 450 F . This means that the oven will bring itself back up to 450 F and stay there for a few minutes before you drop the temperature to 375 F and it will take longer for the oven temperature to drop ( assuming you have a well-insulated oven ) . The goose will start warming up more quickly with this method , which is reflected in the shorter cooking time . Plus , when you 're talking about 2 hours or more , a 25 F temperature difference does change the cooking time . So , in the end , I think the methods are quite different but I think that ( if you follow the actual method including the filling ) both will give acceptable results ... but that does n't matter because you should at least <URL> a <URL> that tells you what temperature to aim for rather than what time to cook for and refer to those recipes ' internal temperature recommendations and use your meat thermometer to know when you 've reached them .
It depends on a lot of factors : what you 're describing is n't much different from making jam , and homemade jam is good for about a month , once you open it . Assuming you got the temp high enough to kill all the bacteria , the time will depend entirely on PH and water content . The more acidic , and the less watery the better . Generally things like this freeze well though , so , when in doubt , throw it in the freezer .
According to <URL> : Chestnut storage is not the same as most nuts . Fresh chestnuts should be stored like carrots . Chestnuts are comprised of about 40-50 % water and thus if not stored properly , they will spoil . Therefore , chestnuts should be stored with great care and attention . The ideal storage conditions for chestnuts are 33-35 degrees Fahrenheit and 85-90 % humidity . We recommend storing chestnuts in covered containers in the coldest part of the refrigerator . Stored properly in the refrigerator , chestnuts can have a shelf life of approximately 2-3 weeks . If you plan to use the chestnuts soon after receiving them , simply place them in a covered container in the coldest part of the refrigerator . The colder , the better . Otherwise , they recommend freezing them ( preferably par-cooked ) , and provide information at the link above . <URL> offers the following information about storing chestnuts , to prevent molding to which they indicate the chestnuts are susceptible due to their high water content : Do not let fresch chestnuts freeze and thaw ( except if you are freezing for a purpose ) Never store chestnuts in a sealed plastic bag ( except dried or frozen ) Keep chestnuts refrigerated unless drying or sweetening the chestnuts If black molds have entered into the chestnut kernel , do not eat the chestnut Chestnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks Cooked chestnuts must also be refrigerated if not consumed right away Never bathe the chestnuts in plain water - this causes mold spores to be transferred to all the chestnuts passing though the bath water - instead , wash in clean running tap water Try to purchase fresh chestnuts close to the time you want to eat them
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
Not all turkeys are the same , and personally , I would not risk letting an entire turkey go rancid in the refrigerator . There is so much you do n't know about this turkey : How was it butchered ? In particular , how long was it sitting on the block and was it packed immediately afterward or left sitting out for a long time ? How quickly was it cooled down to " transporting " temperature after butchering ? Was it transported immediately , or was it stored for a while before transport , and if so , what were those storage conditions ? How specifically was it transported ? What were the environmental conditions , aside from temperature ? Was it exposed to air ? Could it have picked up any other contaminants ? Just how cold was the refrigerator at Trader Joe 's ? Are you sure that it 's consistently that cold ? What if the turkey was shifted around ? For example , what if some other customer picked it up , tossed it in a shopping cart , then after an hour of shopping decided to put it back ? How did she transport it ? I 'm guessing in a non-temperature-controlled trunk ? How long was it in that condition/environment before finally making it into the fridge ? Was the temperature in the fridge turned down as far as it can go long before putting the turkey in there ? If not , how long might it have taken to get down to the desired temperature , especially with a massive slightly-warmed-up turkey in there ? How cold does her refrigerator get ? Is it a new refrigerator ? Are you both certain that it gets as cold as the rep at TJ 's is assuming ? Have you actually stuck a thermometer in there to measure the environmental temperature around where the turkey would be stored ? I 'm not expecting you to answer any of these ; my point is just that there are so many variables , so many things that can go wrong , and the quoted 10-day storage period ( as well as the sell-by date ) is for storage under ideal conditions . I 've seen turkeys go rancid in the fridge after just 2 days . I 've seen others take longer , but still far less than 10 days to go rancid . It 's an incredibly frustrating and completely avoidable experience . Just put it in the freezer ! She just needs to make sure she gives it a couple of days to thaw in the fridge , due to the size of the bird . A half-frozen turkey on Thanksgiving day is almost as useless as a rancid one .
Buttermilk is already thoroughly packed with live bacteria . During its manufacture , that bacteria already consumed some portion of the available lactose and turned it into lactic acid . Because of the lack of food , acidity , and the extreme competition it is pretty hard for buttermilk to go bad . The good bacteria will stay active and the buttermilk will get thicker and more sour until it runs out of lactose . In fact - when your buttermilk container has about 1/2 cup left you can make more just by refilling the container with milk and leaving it to ferment on the counter for a day . If you use it up more quickly than the bacteria eat the lactose then you can keep this up indefinitely . Do n't worry if it is thicker - if it still smells good then it probably is . As Noctrine said - mold around the lip is the worst risk . I am not a food chemist and despite my personal experience - if you ever suspect that food is bad just throw it out . $ 2 of buttermilk is n't worth an unpleasant afternoon .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
As Catohound already mentioned , it 's a symptom of using a high speed blender . You may find <URL> technique useful . Tcrn the blender to its lowest setting and then slowly ramp it up until the top of the liquid just starts to circulate ( usually around speed 4 or 5 on a Vitamix ) . As you run it at this low speed , you will see bubbles coming out in the center . My wife and I do this with our Vitamix and it generally gives good results .
Your refrigerator should be set so that it maintains a temperature no higher than <URL> . This means that you should n't be opening the door frequently or leaving it open longer than necessary . If you are <URL> in that refrigerator , you want the temperature to be no more than <URL> according to some sources , but these sources conflict . Below 32 degrees F you are obviously duplicating the functionality of your freezer , but not as well .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
Well 1.5 cups is volumetric so the weight will depend on how tightly packed that cup is , if they are chopped , etc. . On average though , 1.5 cups of chopped hazelnuts is about 6.08 oz ( 172 g ) according to the USDA 's averages . You can check the USDA 's <URL> if you want to see estimated weights for 1.5 cups of whole , chopped , or ground hazelnuts .
Surely you figured something out by now , but here is what I would do . First , look closely and carefully for surface mold . Look around the rim of the container . If that is clear , smell the oil for rancidity . If it stinks , throw it out . At this point , it looks good and it smells good . I ca n't imagine a dish where the roux is not thoroughly heated , so unless you are pioneering some kind of cold ingredient , cold roux dish , I think you are good to go . The sealed roux in the fridge should behave like a confit and retard spoilage for a while . If you did a dark roux ( like a cajun style ) it should last a really long time . They sell it in jars in New Orleans supermarkets , and if memory serves , the jar said something like 90 days in the fridge after opening .
end question
start question
Methods for seasoning wooden spoons ?
I can not imagine that sanding and buffing a wooden spoon would have any useful culinary applications , although I suppose it might feel smoother to the touch . Generally when you season something wooden for food preparation , the purpose is to create a protective layer to avoid warping or impregnation . If I really wanted to season a spoon , I would season it the same way as a wooden cutting board : Use a food-grade mineral oil and rub it in thoroughly with a cloth or paper towel , then repeat as necessary after it is dry . Like hobodave , however , I have never done this nor heard of it being done . The cost of a wooden spoon is probably less than the cost of the mineral oil you 'd need to season one . If your spoon starts to warp or take on strange odours , just buy a new one . N.B. I can think of one exception , which is if the spoon takes on a fuzzy texture when you get it wet . In that case , sanding it would be done in the context of <URL> . But once again , it 's extremely rare that you 'd need to do this with a cooking utensil - this is a far more common requirement for homemade ( i.e. DIY ) wood products .
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
I can not imagine that sanding and buffing a wooden spoon would have any useful culinary applications , although I suppose it might feel smoother to the touch . Generally when you season something wooden for food preparation , the purpose is to create a protective layer to avoid warping or impregnation . If I really wanted to season a spoon , I would season it the same way as a wooden cutting board : Use a food-grade mineral oil and rub it in thoroughly with a cloth or paper towel , then repeat as necessary after it is dry . Like hobodave , however , I have never done this nor heard of it being done . The cost of a wooden spoon is probably less than the cost of the mineral oil you 'd need to season one . If your spoon starts to warp or take on strange odours , just buy a new one . N.B. I can think of one exception , which is if the spoon takes on a fuzzy texture when you get it wet . In that case , sanding it would be done in the context of <URL> . But once again , it 's extremely rare that you 'd need to do this with a cooking utensil - this is a far more common requirement for homemade ( i.e. DIY ) wood products .
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
You take a small amount out , cook it and taste it . It is the classic way , for instance , to know if sausage is going to be good after it is cooked but before you put it into casing .
Purpose of Seasoning protect bare cast iron from rust make the pan surface non-stick How often to season the pan ? You 'll need to season it more when it 's new . Use it frequently and you 'll need to season it less often . Do n't cook beans or tomatoes in it at first ; if you do so later , you may want to re-season it . Regarding adding butter , you 're right : that would be for taste , not necessity . If seasoned properly , a cast iron pan is non-stick .
<URL> are a snack food . I would not expect for you to be able to make humus out of them ; for one thing , they would have way too much salt , and the texture would be wrong . It might be possible with a lot of experimentation , but you 'd need to go through several failed batches before you got one which worked . Personally , I 'd just go back to the store .
One thing we have found that helps in adding flavor during the steaming process is to slice garlic thinly , and line the bottom of the steamer basket with the garlic . Then afterwards , toss the garlic in with the potatoes and add salt/pepper/etc . ( I 'd probably add paprika , onion powder , and a pinch of cayenne . ) I would imagine orange or lemon peel might work the same as garlic when steamed , although you might get better results tossing the steamed veggies with some zest . You can also toss the steamed potatoes with vinegar or lemon juice ( whether or not it 's combined with oil is up to you ) along with the spices . Another option would be to bake your potatoes rather than steam them . Just wash , poke , and bake at 350F for 1 hour . There 's no more fat , but the flavor and texture are VERY different . Just make sure not to wrap them in foil , since you wo n't get the same results . ( Wrapping potatoes in foil is essentially steaming them , and the crust wo n't get crisp . )
Without a reference to the specific product , I would assume that it is in fact flour . It 's very common for many chicken ( and other meat ) recipes to call for dredging in either seasoned flour , or flour followed by an egg wash and spice/breadcrumb mix . Since these commercial mixes obviously have to be completely dry , they are most likely to be seasoned flour . Check out some recipes for seasoned flour ( alternatively called seasoning flour ) , you 'll probably find them to be very similar to the mixes you 've been using .
Butter is at most 82 % oil and the rest is water . So , you 're going to need to add more butter for the same amount of oil . Besides , you need to adjust the liquid content accordingly since you are going to have more water than you planned . If you are going to use the same amount of oil , then it will not make any difference other than the taste . Just make sure they are of same state ( i.e. melted butter instead of vegetable oil or vice versa )
Out of personal experience and out of personal taste I 'll give you the following : If you like it moist 55 degrees C for 4 hours . If you like it to feel like steak : cook it like steak . If you like your meat to feel more like fish cook it like steak for 20 minutes . Then drop the temperature by 10 degrees C.
The most accurate substitution would simply be <URL> . It is concentrated rum with a huge kick of flavor , and much less alcohol . A little goes a long way . If you 're going to stick with a strong liquor my first choice would be a <URL> , it 's a similarly " sweet " liquor that tastes good in baking . Another good option would be <URL> . If you 're avoiding liquor , then you may be able to use vanilla extract . Non-alcoholic varieties are available . According to <URL> you can also use molasses thinned with pineapple juice . The rum is used simply for flavor .
It 's a great addition in just about any clear stock soup ( non-cream-based ) such as chicken , beef and even vegetable . ( It 's actually great for vegetarians and vegans who may have difficulty getting enough of their b-complex due to a meatless diet . ) It enriches and deepens the flavor while providing a bunch of minerals . It 's also an easy way to " rescue " a soup whose depth of flavor and savoriness ( umami ) fell short . Couple of caveats : It might make your stock cloudy if you add too much It does n't seem to stay in solution in stock too well . Needs frequent stirring in the bowl to keep a consistent flavor
It depends what the recipe is , but I 've successfully replaced brandy with orange juice or apple juice in the past . It 's not a direct replacement for the flavour , of course , but gives a similar strength of flavour , if you see what I mean .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
Your best bets are glass and stainless steel . There is no risk of corrosion with stainless steel , as opposed to aluminum or cast iron , which may react with acidic foods . Zip-type bags are also excellent for marinating , and disposable . You can use plastic like Tupperware , but there is some risk of staining . I would not choose wood , as the marinade may permeate into the grain of the wood , leaving stains and a permanent aroma .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Pozole is traditionally made with nixtamalized corn , also known as nixtamal or hominy . So yes , of course you can use hominy - that 's what you 're supposed to use ! Canned hominy/nixtamal is common . I believe that in some areas you can find dried whole nixtamal and possibly even fresh nixtamal - but I 'm not sure I ever saw that in Texas , so I 'm not sure how much luck you 'll have . As with everything , people say that fresher is better ; I ca n't personally support that , though , not having managed to find it where I live . I have , however , made some pozole that I found to be quite good using canned hominy . Since you 're planning on pozole rojo , you 'll have a lot of other flavor , which I expect would make the difference between canned and fresh less noticeable . I suppose if you want to try to nixtamalize your own corn for the sake of having the optimal pozole , you could , and you would have time . I 've never tried it myself . From what I 've read , cooking/soaking times vary depending on what you 're going to do with the nixtamal . For pozole , you do n't have to cook and soak the corn as long since it 's going to be further cooked in the stew . I 've seen varying instructions online . For example , <URL> says to cook for 15 minutes , soak for another 5-10 , while <URL> says to cook for 40-50 minutes . After that you rinse it thoroughly to remove the lime and hulls ( softened by the lime ) , before cooking it in your pozole . I imagine either of those cooking times would produce something satisfactory ; with it of course being more tender with the longer time . Note also that the corn wo n't get that nice puffed shape if you do n't remove the tip cap ( one of those pages calls it a pedicel - not sure that 's the right term ) . So with a lot of effort and adventurousness , you could indeed make your own nixtamal ( hominy ) , and it might well be better , but you can also make something extremely good with already-made hominy and not take a risk on something I suspect you 're feeding to others .
Bolted lettuce tastes bitter ; I 'd suggest putting it in your compost pile if you have one . Of course , if you like bitter greens , you could make a salad of your lettuce ( perhaps with a mix of other greens ) with some dried fruit , toasted nuts , and a little goat cheese ; the flavors might marry well .
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
end question
start question
How to inject carbon dioxide into hard candy , to make poping rocks ?
There are recipes on the internet for making home made pop rocks . Some of them call for using baking soda plus an acid , so that you generate carbon dioxide in the syrup , rather than injecting it as a pressurized gas . I would assume that you could also use baking powder if you ca n't find powdered acids .
What I 've done in the past is mist some water on both sides of the bread slices , then put them in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ( alternatively , an oven set at 300F/150C for 5-10 minutes will do it too ) . Experiment with the amount of water ( but keep it low ) and cooking times . You should get much softer ( and warm ) bread slices out of it .
There 's <URL> . <URL> seems pretty simple . It looks like in general , you : Liquify your peppers Cook the result with vinegar Strain it Cook the result with salt and sugar Add some pectin Add some whole jalepenos ( probably optional ) Transfer to jars
If the meringues are coming out of the oven sticky , you might lower the temperature slightly and extend the drying time ( to avoid browning ) -- they should feel quite dry and very light coming out of the oven . Sugar is <URL> -- if the air is humid , any condensation -- even when you can not see it -- on the meringues will dissolve the sugar , and then they will start to feel sticky , and the downward spiral will begin . According to all my searching , it is best to make them on a low humidity day . Of course , where I live in the summer , we pretty much do n't get those . If you are having trouble with them in storage , you might try to buy some <URL> packets , and put them in the container . Most desiccant is not food safe , so it should not touch the meringue . Amazon has lots of options .
I think you just need to dehydrate them some more to get that effect . I assume granola and muesli tend to use drier raisins because they will keep longer , and not affect the rest of the cereal with extra moisture . The amount of moisture left in raisins can be variable , it depends on how they 're made and for what purpose - the moister ones are more accessible , the drier ones keep longer - that would be why some are softer than others . To dry out your raisins , you might sun-dry them , or use a dehydrator , or even lay them out in a warm oven to chase of the extra moisture . You would have to keep checking to figure out when they reach the consistency you want . You might even try toasting them , for a higher temperature and a quicker time - though I 'm not sure if the higher heat will change the flavors , or if the changes would be any good ... I have not heard of toasted raisins as an ingredient .
You absolutely can do that . Brits call it <URL> , and the technique is actually fairly forgiving . You can make them muffin sized , or you can make one big popover . Just do n't mess around , popovers get their " pop " from steam . A medium cast-iron skillet ( 9 inches or 23 cm , roughly ) is perfect , you can do it in a square tin too . My British buddy says : <URL>
Do you mean this one ? <URL> . If so , in Japan it is actually known as <URL> ( meaning pomelo candy ) as shown in this description . Here is a <URL> to how a similar milk version is made ( I think you would use mandarin/pomelo ( bontan ) juice in there somewhere for what you want ) , but it is in Japanese ... Perhaps the pictures will help but ... sorry , I do n't know if it 's ok to translate this ... but it says : milk 500ml , sweet glutinous rice 500g , sugar 500g , mizuame ( maltose ; could use corn syrup instead ) 600g , potato starch 200g , and a tray 31cmx24cmx3 .5 cm . Briefly , it says to soak the rice for half a day , then drain , and blend with the milk for 2-3 mins . Transfer to a pot and simmer on medium heat for 20-30 mins . Add sugar in a few lots , mix until dissolved . Drop to low heat , add mizuame and stir/knead very well - the firmness of the final candy will depend on how long you do this . Dredge tray with a thick layer of potato starch then pour the mixture in . To harden , refrigerate when cool .
What you need , my good man , is a candy fork . Basically it 's a two-tined fork with incredibly thin tines . Dip , lift , allow excess to drip off , place on parchment ( you will get a tiny ' foot ' but this is normal ) . unless you 're talking about absolutely perfect spheres ? to my knowledge this is not doable by hand , you will need industrial machinery . and the two hemispheres method will leave you with a seam . i have heard one solution for the tiny hole left by a thin skewer is another tiny dab of chocolate and a quick blast with a hair dryer to smooth out any imperfections , but i have never tried it myself .
You pour in the batter , wait for the underside to be cooked ( some brown patches ) , flip it , then put cheese on the ( browned ) top . With spek ( bacon ) , you do n't need to do this , you can just put the spek into the pan , fry it until done , then pour batter over it , and proceed as normal . Dutch pancakes are fairly thin , so they do n't take very long to cook . Spek wo n't get properly crisp if you pour the batter on it immediately , also because the watery batter cools it down . Apple pieces wo n't burn either , so you can put those in first ( I hate those , they will make your pancake break ! ) .
Does it work ? Yes , it does . The idea is to create something akin to an individual " dutch oven " around the chicken or fish you are baking . The meat is " steamed " in his own juices . There are a bunch of different " recipes " for the salt crust , often with some " binding agent " like egg whites . Usually , the skin is removed when serving ( go ahead , give it a try , if you like ) , so rest assured that the meat underneath is not too salty . An alternative to salt ( and arguably more " paleo style " ) would be baking in clay . A quick internet search should yield plenty of recipes for both varieties . ( Remenber : asking for recipes is a big no-no here . )
Gelatin is quite tolerant , but with a few restrictions : Never boil gelatine , because it looses it 's binding/gelling properties . Liquifying gelatine requires temperatures that feel " warm " to the touch , but not all recipes handle warm additions well - e.g. whipped cream . Cooling liquid gelatine for heat sensitive recipes should happen fairly quick , and so should incorporating the coolish gelatine to the other ingredients : Stir well or you end up with " gummy bear " - like lumps . So without knowing the details of your recipe I suggest using fairly warm water in the range of " warm bath water " or " comfortable for washing hands " but not at all " hot " . ( Note that I do n't give a precise temperature range on purpose . ) Hot tap water should suffice , but heating it on the stove is fine , too . Just use gentle heat and do n't let the gelatine rest on the bottom of the pot to avoid overheating . Depending on your next steps , you might want to stir the liquid gelatine until it 's barely warm to the touch or add a few spoonfulls of whatever cool mixture you are planning to bind , stir , then add to the rest . For warm other ingredients , extra cooling is not required , just mix and let set .
A cappuccino is probably not what you want to try latte art on . The amount of froth in a cap will probably cause the milk to be too thick to pour with . You want to start with your milk texture . You want stretch the milk and texture it so that it is suitable for a latte or maybe even a flat white . Correct micro foam will be integrated with the milk . It wo n't float on top . The surface will appear shiny and it will have the consistency of cream . For a free pour this is really important . Crema can also be your enemy . If your beans are too fresh , it can be a bit difficult to cut through . You can swirl your cup . You can also break it up a bit with your milk since you wo n't start pouring immediately . Once you can get your milk texture right , a good way to start is with some basic shapes . It can be useful to have a jug with a pronounced spout . 1 ) A basic dot in the middle of your cup . As you get to the top of your cup , tilt your jug a bit more to let the foam push the crema out of the way . 2 ) Basic heart . Same as the dot . But instead of just stopping the pour , push through the dot and slow the pour down quickly at the same time . 3 ) Layered dot . Starts like your basic dot . But as you increase the pour rate , wiggle your jug left and right smoothly . This will pull coffee in between the layers of the milk . Then just stop pouring . 4 ) Layered heart . Same as the layered dot , but pull through the dot like the basic heart . 5 ) The Rosetta . This is probably the iconic latte art pattern . This uses the skills of your layered heart . But you start your pour from the back of the cup with relatively large wiggles , then start to pull back and make your wiggles smaller . This gives you the curls at one end of the cup and the tapering " leaves " at the other . To finish , pull through like a heart . Other patterns are then variations on these themes . Like the tulip , swan , multiple hearts , multiple rosettas . And some combine free pouring with a bit of etching eg . smoking dog , pac man . Edit : This is how I learned to froth milk for a standard jug . The jug should be at an angle so that you can form a whirlpool . The tip of your steam wand should be just under the surface of the milk . Then turn on the steam . So I stretch very quickly and then spend the rest of the time texturing . You should n't be moving your jug up or down very much if at all .
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
I have friends from Hong Kong who always use steel woks in their take-away . A cast-iron wok would require a different technique for stir frying . It would be slower to heat up and retain heat when you did n't want the food to continue cooking . Stick with the one you have ...
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
I agree with @jwenting , 5-7 minutes in boiling water is the way to go . Remember to always put the eggs in cold water , if you put them in hot water you risk cracking the shell , especially if eggs are cold . Also , to avoid premature cracking of the shell , that may leave some egg white leaking out , add a spoon of vinegar ( should work with lemon juice too ) to the water .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
A crisp crepe is less about the recipe and more about the cooking technique . You simply need to leave it a little longer before flipping it , allowing the edges to crisp . A little more oil than usual will help , but it should still only be a thin coating wiped on with a paper towel . To make a thicker crepe , simply use less liquid . You can also look at using alternative flours like buckwheat which alter the texture .
You have basically made tea-flavoured vodka . The <URL> ( for essential oil ) is unrelated to the <URL> for the beverage . Commercially , tea tree oil is produced by <URL> , specifically <URL> . Though possible to obtain leaves and perform the distillation , it 's probably not practical on a small scale outside of the tea tree production regions . For completeness , <URL> is toxic ; you do n't want to eat it . What you used was conventional tea leaves . The tea beverage is made by steeping ( soaking in hot water ) leaves of the <URL> , which have been dried or otherwise prepared ( e.g. , fermented , roasted , etc. ) .
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
end question
start question
How to counteract excessive saltiness in dried fish ?
The standard way to cook salt cod for dishes where you want to really remove the saltiness , such as brandade , is to soak it ( for hours ) in a couple of changes of water , and then simmer it in milk for half an hour to an hour . This might work with the mackerel . Not sure what you 'd use it for after that , though .
Yes , you can store an opened pack of dried yeast without a problem . Seal the pack as well as you can ( plastic clips for just that purpose are very common , or you can just use an office ' bulldog ' clip ) , and put it in the fridge .
If you are handy with electrics and electronics , linking a heating element to a PID controller is probably your best bet for stability . This will give you quite stable temperatures . You can find many sets of instructions by googling <URL> , which is a very similar application , although higher temperature ranges are usually the goal .
Have you heard of the <URL> ? If you drop a bit of water on a very hot pan , the water floats around on its own cushion of steam , thus not touching the pan at all . Similar things happen when you sear meat on a pan . The steam keeps the food from bonding with the pan . In general you should n't cook meat on a medium heat . Generally you want to cook meat either on a screaming hot pan/skillet with a heavy bottom , or low and slow . Rarely in between . I have no science to back this up , but watching a documentary on Francis Mallmann , who cooks over wood fires , claim that when the meat first touches the grill it sticks , but once the Maillard reaction occurs the meat begins to unstick . He says he hates it when people touch the meat and move it around , and that its best to just leave it be until its ready to be flipped . People associate cooking things very hot with burning them . But in reality getting a nice sear requires very high heat , which creates many of the flavor compounds in the food we eat . You 're more likely to burn or overcook something at a lower heat , because you 're cooking out all the moisture slowly then it begins to burn the entire thing very rapidly , rather than browning the outside . Which could also make the food stick to the pan .
Play it safe . It has been said : You probably will be ok , but the safer method is just to cook it the night before and refrigerate it . Toss the whole thing in an insulated lunch container , and you should have no problems . Even if the temperature creeps up into the danger zone , it should n't be there more than an hour or two before lunch time , and should still be cool enough not to cause an issue . -- <URL> <URL> I happen to disagree with this advice , personally . While it may be OK , is this something worth trying to find out ? Here is an excerpt from an <URL> Growth rates of pathogens are highly temperature dependent . Ordinarily , pathogenic bacteria growth is relatively slow at temperatures below 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . In most cases , growth is very slow below 50 ° F ( 10 ° C ) , and 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) is below the minimum growth temperature of most pathogenic bacteria , although there are some exceptions . On the other hand , pathogenic bacteria grow relatively fast at temperatures above 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . Think of a real-world example , say a soda can . You get the can out of the machine at a temperature around 35 ° F-40 ° C , which is refrigeration temperature . You set it naked ( i.e. , no " can cushy " ) on a table and just leave it there . Within 1-1 .5 hours or so , it will be very close to room temperature , which on average is about 70 ° F to 73 ° F. That 's when your fish will begin growing bacteria more rapidly , which it would continue to do until you are ready to eat it . TL ; DR At the very least put and ice pack or other method of absorbing heat inside your lunchbox . Always play it safe when it comes to pathogens .
They are a small , white , mildly flavored bean . You can use cannellini or navy beans instead .
It sounds to me like you did n't get the gelatin dispersed properly . Since the recipe you linked to does n't explicitly mention it , and neither does your question , I 'm going to assume that you did n't bloom the gelatin first . You must do this if you want proper dispersion of any gelatin product . To bloom powdered gelatin , just sprinkle it over cold liquid and leave it ( cold ) until it 's visibly swelled . This usually takes about 5 minutes . Then simply heat and stir ( thoroughly ) to disperse . To bloom sheet gelatin , you do almost the same thing - soak them for a little longer ( up to 10 minutes ) in cold water a separate vessel , then squeeze them to wring out any excess water , and then add to your cooking liquid ( in this case cream ) . You might also consider use a stick blender/immersion blender to make sure that it is completely dispersed after melting . This is usually unnecessary for gelatin , but if you 're blooming it and still ca n't get uniform distribution , that will help . I 'm certain that if you follow the proper preparation , your panna cotta will turn out fine next time . P.S. Do be careful not to add too much lime or other acid ; gelatin will not set properly at pH levels around or below 4 .
I think the issue here is long term storage . If you are only going to keep the food for weeks to a couple of months , I think your home dehydrated products should be perfectly acceptable . Depending on your application -- and I make no value judgements here -- if you need to store the food for considerably longer for whatever reason , then you want to be sure nearly all of the water has been removed , and commercially freeze-dried products are going to be more reliable . Also , according to <URL> : Freeze-dried products can be rehydrated [ sic ] ( reconstituted ) much more quickly and easily because the process leaves microscopic pores . The pores are created by the ice crystals that sublimate , leaving gaps or pores in their place . For another perspective , the vendor <URL> says : When comparing freeze dried foods to dehydrated foods , there are advantages to both . Some advantages of freeze dried foods are that they are light in weight and reconstitute quickly and will have the appearance of fresh foods when reconstituted . A disadvantage to freeze dried foods is that they will take up more space for storage because they are lighter and more space is needed to store the same amount ( in weight ) as dehydrated foods . Advantages to dehydrated foods are less space is needed to store a large amount of food and it is economical to purchase . Freeze dried foods can be a great deal more expensive than dehydrated foods . So in answer to the ongoing question of whether freeze dried foods or dehydrated foods are better -- only the consumer can determine which is best depending on his or her own personal needs and preferences . However , they are addressing commercially dehydrated or freeze-dried products , not home prepared products . Your home dehydrated foods will probably retain more moisture and have less even quality control than commercial processes . For this reason , they may not be as shelf stable . For most uses , though , especially if you are making " meals in a jar " for convenience or short term emergency preparedness , not long term ( years ) of storage , your home dehydrated fruits and vegetables should be just fine .
While you could probably do dried blueberries in a VERY low oven ( 150F ) , you 'll most likely need to prop the door open slightly to allow moisture to escape . You 'd be best to do them in an actual food dehydrator which will have a fan to expell the moisture being released from the food . Keep in mind however that if dried as they are , they will shrivel up into fairly hard little bits . If your goal is something similar to the dried blueberries that you can buy in retail stores , they will have to be treated in a sugar syrup to maintain the chewy texture and keep them from totally drying out . I 'm not sure if the commercial producers are first drying and then soaking in a sugar solution and perhaps drying again so that the sugar is drawn into the cells of the berry . Whatever the case ... commercial dried cranberries and blueberries maintain the chewy texture due to being treated with a sugar solution at some point . If you are looking for ways to handle a bumper crop or bulk buy on blueberries , I would recommend freezing them and stick to buying commercially processed dried berries for the best results , least effort , and greatest bang for your buck .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
When I fancy fish and chips I tend to use either cod or haddock and create a rich beer batter . Serve that with some home-made chips and you 're set . If I want something lighter , but still with a crust , I 'd tend to go for mackerel . If that 's not available , I 'd be looking for seabass or snapper .
Yes the fish should be cleaned and prepared before being frozen . Reference : <URL>
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
Cooking in a dishwasher is related to some other non-orthodox places to cook , like on the manifold of a car on a road trip . Basically , you 're aiming to put food in an environment that 's somewhere between 160F ( 71C ) and 300F ( 150C ) already , for non-cooking reasons . That 's strange , but not entirely nuts . The dishwasher is going to stay south of 212F ( 100C ) , but , a decent dishwasher does n't stay very far below that threshold . It 's going to go through several variations of how that heat 's applied , from the actual washing cycle to the drying cycle . And , if you run a regular cycle of dishes , there 's going to be a bunch of foreign substances ( soap , food bits from the dishes ( and in the car manifold situation , things like oil ) ) all around it . So , your goal is to wrap the food in something that can both handle the heat and seal out the foreign stuff . To me , the most obvious solution to this is the vacuum sealed pouches used for sous vide . You 're not going to get anything remotely close to the consistent temps for sous vide , but for the dishwasher , you 're still talking about mostly cooking in " hot water " and hot , moist air , so that 's close enough to give a shot . So , I 'd fill the pouch with seasonings/marinades and let it ride and see what comes out . I would n't expect it to be great , but it might be worth a shot for the shock value alone .
Notice how dogs enjoy gnawing on bones ? Ever been to a restaurant where they serve bone marrow ? Boiling bones in water draws flavor out of them . Most canned broth and stock you buy -- beef stock , chicken stock , etc -- is just this -- water boiled with bones for hours . Most literature I 've read suggests using raw bones , but some recipes call for roasted bones -- the ones I 've seen most often involve roasted veal bones . I 've also made stock from roasted chicken bones . The stock does still take on flavor . It 's easier to get good flavor from unused bones , though . Additionally , I 've found another pitfall . I 've tried to make stock from the leftover bones of bbq 'd ribs . This was not a good idea . The broth had a savory flavor , as intended . Unfortunately it also had the background taste of bbq sauce . Now , when I do make stocks , I 'd consider using leftover bones , but there have to be enough bones leftover ( otherwise I get very little stock for my time or it 's weak on flavor ) the bones ca n't be " tainted " by other flavors ( like bbq sauce ) To answer your original question , try this : start with a pot of plain water put about 4 lb of bones in per gallon of water while it 's still cold , add ~ 1 tsp of vinegar per gallon of water Once the water comes to a boil , lower the heat so that it 's just simmering this keeps the stock from getting cloudy/white ( which does n't taste bad , just looks worse ) leave boiling for about 6-8 hours , minimum . Longer is fine , but you wo n't get too much more at this point . turn off heat , allow stock to cool fully , strain it for the bones , refrigerate you can speed up this step by putting the pot in a sink full of cool water do NOT put a hot pot in your fridge . It will heat up the fridge significantly and just make the food in there go bad . Use this to make soups make sauces ( reduce it first ) as a substitute for water in savory dish preparations ( i.e. make rice with stock instead of water . Be creative here ) The main benefits here are flavor and nutrients , but I just do it for the flavor . Cutting bones up does improve the extraction process , but if the marrow is exposed already ( most beef/veal bones will be ) you 're fine . If you save old bones , freeze them until you have enough . Do n't bother trying to make stock with the bones from one chicken .
In both cases , you do n't add the recipe 's amount of water to the proofed yeast . If your recipe says e.g. 500 g flour , 300 g water and 10 g fresh yeast , you measure these 300 ml water , then pour some of the 300 ml over 10 g of pressed yeast to proof it , adding a teaspoon of sugar if you want it quicker . After that , you mix flour , proofed yeast and the remaining water together ( for simplicity , I left out salt and possible other ingredients ) . You do it exactly the same way with dry yeast , only you have to use the correct substitute ratio , which is 3:1 . So you measure 300 ml of water and ( 1/3 ) * 10 g = 3.3 g of dry yeast . Then you pour some of the 300 g of water over the dry yeast , and after it has bloomed , you mix flour , sponge and the remaining water . The bread hydration stays correct , and the fermentation time/amount is equivalent to the fresh yeast case .
Salmon or Tuna will make a very strong flavoured stock and will have lots of oil that coat your tongue . Not what you 're looking for if you want a light brightly flavoured fish sauce . In a traditional French kitchen you want generic stocks ( fish/brown/chicken / veal ) that are able to be used for a wide range of sauces/dishes so having a salmon stock around does n't meet that criteria . That said , I worked at a restaurant that made fish stock from salmon bones all the time as it was mainly used in a house specialty , a very robust West Coast spin on Bouillabaisse . Any true Frechman would have turned his back on us in disgust for doing what we did but damn it , it tasted great and the customers loved it ! For any other fish sauces we used the traditional white fish bones . FYI ... Japanese dishes use Bonito flakes ( tuna ) liberally to make dashi ( sp ? ) which is a fish flavoured broth for miso soup as well as other items . So basically what I 'm saying is if a fatty fish stock gets the job done for you and you 're happy with it then go for it . Just remember that if you 're trying to make a classic recipe then using a non-traditional ingredient will mess it up .
i have found that a lampe berger works well to eliminate strong scents after cooking ( http://www.lampeberger.us/ ) -- after all , they were originally invented to help reduce the odors in hospitals and mortuaries ! ( you can read about their history at wikipedia : <URL> ) . i use mine after a night of deep frying food to get that smell out . i 'm pretty certain it would work on fish just as well .
As a rule of thumb for a whole fish , and not a fillet - the gills should be bright red the skin/scales should be bright and shiny like metal this fish should n't really smell of anything except ' watery ' the flesh should rebound quickly when pressed the eyes should be bright and clear really fresh fish is also quite slimey to touch if it 's straight out of the water . I remember being quite surprised at this from my first fishing trip a few years back .
Sardines are canned , which means the high heat of a pressure canner . That is what softens the bones . If you are wanting softer bones for other kinds of fish , you can either cook them using a pressure cooker or can them . However , this will only work for smaller fish that have smaller bones . If your main concern is that you will swallow a bone and choke , then buy your fish as fillets only . Most fish fillets have no bones at all . The pin bones that are in salmon fillets can be removed with needle nose pliers , and are so small that you could n't choke on them if you tried .
end question
start question
Replacements for baking soda in a cake ?
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
Mostly it comes down to practice . However there are some tips and tools that can make it a lot easier . If you have a cake stand ( the kind that spins ) then you set the cake on the stand and slowly turn it with one hand while cutting forward and back with the other ( trying to keep the cutting hand as level as possible ) . Another option is to buy a cake leveler <URL> - if you make a lot of cakes it can be very handy .
Add the baking soda to the cut meat and then wash it off . Measure about a teaspoon in your palm and then sprinkle it over the thinly sliced meat from high up . This way you get a thin layer over all the meat . Wash after some time ( you can do it overnight ) . There is an <URL> that you may follow The baking soda will work like other meat tenderizers , by denaturing the proteins on the surface of the meat , so it should work on pork or chicken as long as the baking soda is on the meat ( and not the skin or fat ) . The tenderizers penetrate the meat very slowly , millimeters per day at refrigerator temperatures , faster at cooking temperatures , so in practice it will only work on thin slices . If you use thicker pieces , you will still change the meat 's surface texture . If you use the baking soda straight into the dish in the same proportion ( some people like it this way ) , adjust your salt accordingly , as the baking soda will make the dish salty .
The general rule of thumb with cakes and quick breads is that within certain limits : The larger the cake the lower the temperature The smaller the cake , the higher the temperature The reason is that you want to get nice crust formation and browning in the time in takes the muffin or cupcake to cook through . However , mini-muffins or cupcakes have so little mass that they will bake through quite quickly , and may be easy to over bake at higher temperatures . This article at <URL> , in regards to converting standard cupcakes to mini-cupcakes recommends : While most cupcakes take about 15-20 minutes to bake , most mini cupcakes take from 9-14 minutes or so to reach donenss . Check your minis at 9 or 10 minutes with a toothpick and bake longer as needed . The only thing you really need to look out for is the fact that it is easy to overbake these miniature cakes , so keep a close eye on them while they 're baking and check them at very short intervals when they 're close to being done . This matches my experience for full sized muffins and cupcakes : full sized muffins should bake in about 18-22 minutes -- if they take longer , raise the oven temperature on the next batch slightly . They do not suggest changing the temperature for minis . The tips at <URL> concur : If recipes do n't specify mini baking times , note that minis will take more than half of the baking time recommended for standard size cupcakes . My survey of a number of mini-cupcake recipes shows the general consensus is about 10 minutes , or half the time of a regular cupcake . Remember , however , the smaller the cake , the more little factors like your actual oven temperature , how much batter you put in the tin ( and how consistently you fill each cup ) , the moisture level of your batter , and so on affect the outcome . All of my experience is with standard sized cupcakes and muffins , or muffin tops . If I had a mini , pan , I would determine the best baking time by : Doing a half-tray , and checking it when they start to smell done ( if you are an experienced baker , you will know what this means ) , or at about 8 minutes . Continue checking every minute or so , until you find they are done with the toothpick test . Bake a second half-tray to that time without all of the door opening , to confirm your findings . Adjust as necessary , and you will then know the best time for your oven and that particular recipe -- assuming you fill the tins consistently . ( I use a food disher -- like an ice cream scoop -- for this purpose . ) Note : the purpose of the half tray is to have less cakes with a less than perfect bake . Once you dial in the ideal baking time , go for full trays for less work . I also suggest not doing multiple trays at the same time , as they will change the way the air circulates in the oven , and mask the radiant heat from each other . This makes for less consistent results .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
It 's fine as written . Combining vinegar with baking soda ( or any acid with any base ) is usually done in baking to produce gas , which can lighten the finished product . This is an icing , which is applied after the baking process ; it 's not set to capture air bubbles , so any effect would be largely temporary and more easily produced through beating . The vinegar here is intended to mimic the tangy flavor of real cream cheese . The lemon juice has the same effect , but apple cider vinegar adds a different mix of acids , better matching the flavor of the real thing .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
I ca n't see any possible way it did n't reach 138F inside after that length of time ! I think you just had way too much liquid .
You want to use baking soda . Baking powder is used as a leavening agent and does this by combining an acid and a base , so it would not make your chicken more alkaline . Baking soda , on the other hand is just sodium bicarbonate and will make your chicken more alkaline . However , baking soda , especially if used in excessive amounts , will give your chicken a bad taste . Baking soda tastes bitter , and cooking it for too long at high heat exacerbates that . From reading online , it seems that adding baking soda will indeed make your chicken look much browner ( the same way that pretzels are dipped in lye to produce their brown colour ) , but it would affect the texture/taste of your chicken . If you want to add more flavour , I would think that properly browning the chicken ( using high heat , having patience ) would be more effective than adding baking soda , which might give the appearance , but not the taste .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
I have halved cake recipes before without issue . The most complicated thing to worry about is halving an odd number of eggs , but <URL> addresses that . The finished product was indistinguishable from the full recipe . Edit One thing to note . In your specific case , because it 's a two-layer cake , halving is simple because you 're only cooking a single layer . Halving other cakes , such as a pound cake , or a bundt cake involves adjustments to the cooking time . A halved cake will cook much quicker , and could possibly need a lower temperature as well as a decreased cooking time .
In the past when I 've cooked in the ground I put rocks into the fire . Do n't really know what sort of rocks , but I 've been involved in sessions that use bricks . Point is that you needs some way to " envelope " the heat around the thing you are cooking so what we did was put the rocks into the fire to heat them up . Carefully remove the rocks before putting the lamb in and then put the hot rocks on top of the hessian covered meat before putting the dirt back on top . Let it sit for a while and you should get a much more even result
I would n't bake them in , for a start , as I would n't be confident of what the bootlaces would do in the oven . Thinking about it , a possible way of going about it is to ' thread ' the bootlaces through the cake before you ice it . Cut the cake in half ( vertically ) , get a big needle like a darning needle or something similar , and ( carefully ) thread a few laces through , cutting them off flush with the surface , then stick the cake back together with icing or jam and pipe on the outer icing . The tricky thing will be getting them to follow curvy paths . The other thing you could do is use said needle ( or perhaps a chopstick ) to poke little tunnels through the cake , then pipe red jam into them . This would perhaps give a nicer result - it might be a bit odd to be eating a slice of cake and then to suddenly be chewing a rubbery bootlace .
I assume we are talking about a variety of the Eastern European treat called Oblatne ( or a variety of that name ) ? Which consists of five to eight layers of store-bought wafers ( not " waffles " - in some languages it 's the same term for both , I know ) , " glued together " by a fatty or caramelly cream , pressed for a few hours and cut into little diamonds ? Like below : <URL> <URL> There are two main methods to create the cream , one based on condensed milk , dulce de leche or caramel , the other on butter , margarine or shortening . Often with an addition of nuts , chocolate and a dash of alcohol . Often , some raw eggs are included as well , so take the appropriate measures for these recipes . The common trait is low humidity in the filling , because otherwise the wafers become soggy and - worst case - could even disintegrate . Recipe requests are off-topic here , but a creative use of the terms wafer , cake , country of origin or some neighboring country , oblatne or oblate and your preferred filling ingredients in your favourite seach engine should set you off in the right direction .
You say you are substituting the juices for milk . You have to ask yourself , what roles does milk play in the recipe , and how well will the juices in question fill those roles ? What does milk contribute ? The milk adds : Liquid , to gelatinize the starch in the flour to create the structure of the cake ; the water will also contribute to some gluten formation , but in most cake techniques , this is minimized Very minor acid component A small amount of fat , but compared to the oil in the above recipe this becomes negligible A small amount of sugar , but compared to the sugar in the above recipe , also negligible Some proteins and other milk solids which will interfere slightly with gluten formation , again enhancing tenderness ; they also help to retain moisture so the cake stays fresh longer A very milk neutral flavor that comes out as a general contribution to the richness The fruit juice In contrast , what do fruit juices bring to the recipe ? I am ignoring the heavy/light or thin/thick distinction because it means very little . Water -- exactly the same as the milk Significant acid . Fruit juices tend to be much more acidic than milk . You might wish to experiment with reducing the baking powder , and adding some baking soda to use the additional acid to power the chemical leavening , while neutralizing some of the overall acidity Most fruit juice is essentially fat free , but as the fat contribution from milk is negligible , this is not an important distinction Possibly some pectin or other long polysaccarides which will contribute to the overall structure and mouth feel of the cake , but this effect is probably negligible Flavor . The fruit juices will have a strong and significant flavor -- of course , this may be a positive , but it will influence the outcome of the cake Sugar . Fruit juices tend to be sweeter than milk , so the overall cake will be slightly sweeter . This is probably somewhat mitigated by the increased acidity , and again , compared to the overall sugar in the recipe , probably not a large contributing factor . Fruit solids ( proteins , minerals and so on ) . Much like the milk solids , probably contribute somewhat to the more tender crumb , but hard to characterize . The truth is , the " heaviness " or " thickness " ( by which I infer you mean viscosity , or how fast the juice flows or pours -- or how easily it coats a spoon , which is an easier way to see it ) is not that important . You could use pureed fruit with almost the same result -- for example , canned or pureed pumpkin or mashed banana . Even pureed fruit is still mostly water . Still , every juice or fruit puree is its own entity . I would keep a little diary of how each trial worked out , whether you like the results , and adjust the next try accordingly . Edit : What juices to use ? I realized I never specifically answered the question , what juices to use ? Use whatever juice ( or fruit puree ) you like , based whether you like the flavor and how the cake turns out . Each time you try something new , there is some risk , but you should soon find ones you like , and which perform well .
Generally , no they should be fine . You 'd have more of an issue with frozen than fresh . It would take fresh strawberries a long time to release enough moisture to cause any significant amount of sogginess . The issue you 're more likely to run into depending on the size of your strawberries , the density of your Bavarian cream , levelness of your cake , and the weight of your top layer is that they can act like rollers and friction between the two layers will be low . If the cake is tilted wrong , the top layer will just slide right off . I 've definitely had it happen - ruined a cake for a charity event :( . Make sure the strawberries are cut into bits - not halves or slices and preferably fold them into the cream to prevent this from happening . All the flavors will still be there , but your cake will be safer .
It would be nearly impossible to gauge the effect of a different fruit on a quick bread without knowing the types and amounts of other acidic things in the recipe . Milk or buttermilk are also acidic , as are some other things you 're likely to find in a quick bread batter . Your recipe is going to be calculated to have enough leavening action for the bread , using whatever acids are initially required . Most likely this is partly the fruit and partly things like milk or buttermilk ( both of which are acidic , buttermilk being more so ) . Using more acidic ingredients than intended will just leave your final bread slightly more acid -- probably not enough to bother you , particularly if the fruit was to your liking to start with . You may find that a more acidic batter causes the baking soda to rise faster than you want , so you should watch for that . You will not be able to make the baking soda release too much carbon dioxide by acidifying more -- it 'll do as much as it can then stop . If you use less-acidic ingredients , you risk making the baking soda underperform . What I would resist doing in that instance is adding more baking soda , however . You wo n't increase the leavening action and you may find you introduce an unpleasant metallic taste . Better in those cases to let the batter sit just a little longer to give it more time to leaven , or add more of another acidic ingredient . Ultimately , I 'd be more concerned about the varying moisture levels in the fruits used than the acidity . Apples are relatively dry compared to , say , strawberries or blueberries , so you may find that your batter is too wet to cook properly at the time and temperature prescribed .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
There has been a belief , at times wildly popular , the using a half full can of beer ( or soda , or other beverage ) as a base when barbqecuing or roasting chicken helps keep it moist , and imparts flavor . This is <URL> . As Meathead says in the linked article : No way the beer adds moisture . The method is supposed to add moisture to the meat . But the can is inserted half way up the cavity and blocks the meat from contact with moisture . It acts like a condom . so any vapor that escapes the top of the can , and there is n't much , will only come in contact with the upper half of the cavity . The surface area of the exterior of the bird is vastly greater than the surface area of the cavity , and after blocking off half the cavity with the can , there is very little surface area for flavor to penetrate . He also explains in detail why beer can not add much flavor , if any -- there are very few flavorful ingredients in beer as a proportion of the whole which is mostly water . While I am not familiar with Irn Bru , I imagine that most or all of the logic still applies .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
end question
start question
can I freeze chicken defrost it and eat cold for lunch ?
That 's perfectly fine , assuming the meats were cooked properly originally . If you look up people doing bento lunches , they use freezer staples a lot ; often , if the item is small enough , it can be packed in a lunch still frozen and be defrosted by lunchtime . However , if you 're talking about a whole steak or chicken breast , you 'll want to stick it in the fridge overnight to let it defrost first .
Shiitake mushrooms are certainly not poisonous , either raw , cooked or as you posit in your question , after being cooked , stored in the refrigerator and consumed later . If you enjoy eating them cold , go for it . Just keep in mind that like any other cooked food , they can spoil if not stored properly ( I have some leftover Chinese mustard greens stir-fried with shiitakes in my fridge right now , and have been eating them for days ) . However : There is a rare allergic reaction in some people called <URL> which is brought on by eating uncooked or under-cooked Shiitakes . Note that this does not mean it is poisonous , it is a food allergy for all purposes like any other ( think shellfish , wheat , soy etc. ) In addition to that , If you look , you will probably find advice to cook all mushrooms before eating ( this probably has more to do with digestibility than anything though ) . Although I believe this is really aimed more at wild harvested mushrooms , in his wild mushroom identification book " All that the rain promises and more " , David Arora can be quoted as saying : " With very few exceptions , mushrooms should not be eaten raw . They are safer , more digestible and more nutritious when cooked ... " Personally , I would not shy away from eating Shiitakes raw for any safety reason , but you then may be robbing yourself of some of the nutritional value .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
There are <URL> on the market that come with a lot of solids , and it 's perfectly normal for those to have all kinds of chunky weirdness if they 've sat for a little while . Wine vinegar has a wide range of normal behaviour : it can get <URL> * or <URL> , and that 's normal . Even filtered vinegar can develop cloudiness and still be perfectly safe . If your distilled vinegar gets cloudy , I 'd worry . That should n't happen . Still , foreign bacteria do NOT grow well in vinegar . If your distilled vinegar is growing something , you probably know why . <URL> , unless you 're storing it outside on your deck , or something . If you brew your own , your mileage may vary . * This is often a result of leaving live bacteria ( <URL> ) in the vinegar . <URL> , like live yoghurt cultures . There is n't much data either way , but it 's certainly not harmful .
It depends on what you mean by " spoil " . The purpose of the fridge is to prevent food from growing pathogenic organisms . There is a clear dependence there : The colder the environment , the slower food gets " spoiled " , or unsafe to eat . But we also want our food to be tasty . And cold temperature does change the texture and taste of some foods , especially fruit and vegetables . If it stays above freezing , some of them still get unpleasant , especially tomatoes and tropical fruit . The worse problem is if the temperature gets below freezing . Then everything turns mushy and unpleasant . And because fridges do not have a very precise temperature control ( due to imprecise sensors but also to the fact that the temperature and humidity varies throughout the space of the fridge ) , a thermostat set too high can lead to temperatures below freezing at least in some parts of the fridge , rendering some vegetables , specifically green salads , practically inedible . On this one , I side with your roommates . I have never seen a fridge which had it necessary to turn the thermostat all the way up . Milk and cooked food does great at temperatures just below 4 degrees C , which for most fridges I 've seen corresponds to a middle setting . Expiry dates are based on this temperature . Cheese actually prefers higher temperatures , like 15 degrees , people just keep it in the fridge because they lack a better space in a typical kitchen . Setting the thermostat on the highest setting gets the fridge around , sometimes even below , the freezing point , and yes , it makes it impossible to keep vegetables in the fridge ( I 've seen them turn bad in the closed vegetable drawer too ) , and wastes lots of energy besides .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
It is a rather long timescale , but you already made the thing . I would put it in the freezer for 24 hours , the leave it in the fridge to thaw . That should be right on target for Sunday , without having to worry about infringing any guidelines .
You will have the best results if you prep by cutting and blanching prior to freezing . This should ensure that moisture content in the veggies does less damage over time in the freezer and improve color duration . I find it helpful to freeze vegetables separately rather than as mixes as you can always grab from multiple bags , but you ca n't unmix mixed vegetables without more work . The majority of vegetables for stir-fry ( e.g. broccoli , peas , etc ) will freeze well enough , the ones in your freezer aisle obviously freeze a bit better than others . If a vegetable has a high water content ( i.e. lettuce , which I hope you are n't stir-frying with ) that is more integral to its structure than the cellulose it is likelier to burst cell walls in freezing ; these vegetables are better to avoid .
I once left a whole New York strip in the walk in cooler for two weeks and it was great . Chances are that the salt and acid in the marinade preserved the pork well enough it would still be safe to eat after six days . I would check for slime and foul odor . There are several other factors involved such as how it was handled before put in the refrigerator . For example , a piece of pork that was at room temp for one hour with a semi sterile knife trimming it might not last three days . I always go with whether it has an off odor or not . I find that meat which has aged a little in the fridge will have a more robust defined flavor . If you run your finger across it and feel any type of slime just get rid of it .
Hooves are generally not eaten directly but make great soup . If you Google ' trotter soup ' , you will find recipes from many different culinary traditions , most of them middle-eastern or from the Indian sub-continent . This page has some typical recipes : <URL> Although trotter generally means pig 's hooves in the west , it 's used to mean any hooves in the east .
<URL> says you can safely store waffle batter for 3 months , but I 've had bad luck freezing it as far as quality goes . After thawing and cooking the batter , the waffles did n't really " rise " enough to be worthwhile . They tasted ok , but the texture was n't nearly what I wanted . Waffles are essentially a <URL> , and I believe the baking powder does n't have the same effect after freezing . I do know that you lose the frothy goodness that you get from the whisking/beating , which is important in achieving the light , fluffy lift inside the crispy exterior . I was told that if you use a yeast recipe instead of a baking powder recipe , you can thaw it overnight and it will give the yeast time to activate by morning - unfortunately I have n't tried it so I 'm only passing it on as a suggestion . What I 've found works : Making a bunch of waffles and freezing them between layers of wax paper . Not as good as fresh , but better than store-bought frozen , and very convenient . Storing the dry mix in the pantry ( short-term ) or freezer ( longer-term ) , as I generally have milk and eggs on hand and have time for a quick whisk . Not as convenient or portable , but tastier . If you modify the recipe using evaporated milk or dried buttermilk , you can make them with water and egg instead of milk and egg . As a side note , you probably have about 3 days in the fridge .
Short answer : Brining after boiling wo n't do much ( if anything ) , and you probably do n't want to boil all parts of the chicken anyway . One primary purpose of brining is to hydrate the cells of the muscle tissue before cooking , which allows the cells to hold on to more moisture during the cooking process via denaturation of the proteins . If you cook the meat first , then the heat will permanently denature the proteins first , so the brine will essentially be useless . The reason why you want to pre-cook chicken wings is that ( a ) they have a lot of fat which melts off into the cooking liquid , and ( b ) they have a good amount of connective tissue ( collagen ) which needs to be cooked low and slow to soften into delicious gelatin . Most of the other parts of the chicken do n't have nearly as much fat and collagen , so boiling them would likely only serve to overcook them .
Yes , you can freeze parmesan cheese . Even without freezing , Parmesan is very durable since the low water and high salt content prevents mould from growing . The younger varieties may be more prone to mould growth ( having a higher water content ) , but I 've kept ripe Parmesan ( 30-36 months ) for at least a year in the fridge without problems ( and it would probably have stayed good much longer ) . Just remember to keep it wrapped in paper , not in a sealed plastic container to prevent a buildup of condensation .
You can absolutely freeze marinated meat - defrost in the refrigerator , and it will continue to marinate as it defrosts . I find that it usually takes about a day to defrost chicken breasts in the fridge . The meat is more of a concern than the type of marinade when it comes to freezing . Most marinades should be fine to freeze . However , if you 're starting off with meat that was frozen , you may not want to refreeze it . There are a couple reasons for this : 1 ) If the meat was frozen and NOT kept refrigerated ( i.e. , defrosted on the countertop or in the microwave ) , there 's a chance that bacteria could start to grow in the meat , and freezing it again wo n't kill the bacteria . This is n't a problem if your meat is refrigerated and kept in an airtight container . The USDA has a quick guide on freezing , defrosting and refreezing <URL> . 2 ) Texture may be affected if you refreeze meat . Most meat dries out a little in the process of freezing and defrosting , so doing this multiple times will probably affect the texture . When the ice crystals form in the meat , they burst cells , which then lose juice when the meat is defrosted . The result is often mushier , less juicy meat . As a less scientific reason , the Food Network has recipes where they say you can <URL> . Sometimes , if it 's good enough for the Food Network , it 's good enough for me ... :)
The USDA recommendation for a safe internal temperature is 165 degrees for chicken . The breast , being leaner , should n't be cooked to any higher than that or it will dry out and be tough . The thigh can be cooked to a slightly higher temperature ( 165-175 ) . That is the Kitchen Network 's preference for taste and texture ( <URL> ) . Getting the thigh to a slightly higher temperature ( and keeping it there for longer ) helps the collagen break down , which will make it more tender and taste more moist .
In my experience , the answer for most leafy herbs is yes , fragance and flavor is preserved . Never tryed hyssop , however <URL> site says it freezes fine : it can be dried or frozen and stored for later use . When harvesting a hyssop plant , cut it in the morning hours once any dew has dried . Hang the plants upside down in small bunches to dry in a dark , well-ventilated area . Alternatively , you can place the leaves in a plastic bag after removing them from the stems and place in the freezer until ready to use .
The basis for any sort of Japanese soup dish is going to be dashi stock , a stock made of fish and seaweed . It has a much lighter flavor than chicken broth , so you might not have identified it easily . You can buy it in a powder form for convenience , and it can be sprinkled into other liquids rather than reconstituted . <URL> is for soba with a dipping sauce , but it 'll give you a good idea of the flavor profile you 're looking for : Dashi stock plus <URL> , which is made of soy sauce , mirin , and sugar ( and simmered so it 's not strongly alcoholic ) .
Onion tastes good , especially when caramelized , and since both it and the chicken go on to to be cooked for an extended time in the chili , there 's really no food safety concern with cooking them together . Both contribute to the finished flavor of the dish , and cooking them together saves time . There 's no magical interaction between chicken and onion - if there were you 'd see the same step in many different types of recipes .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
end question
start question
What can I substitute for Kaffir Lime Leaves ?
I would n't attempt to substitute . I 've read somewhere that you can use regular lime leaves , but I 've never seen those anywhere . Even Googling for lime leaf turns up kaffir lime leaves . They can be found easily enough online : <URL> . They freeze well for months in just a zip-lock bag . The flavor profile is best described as a bright floral aromatic . It 's similar in function , not taste , to a bay leaf . Thai cuisine uses kaffir lime leaves much as we do bay leaves . If you decide buying online is n't worth the hassle , then <URL> suggests the following substitute : 1/2 a small bay leaf 1/4 tsp of lime zest 1/8 tsp of fresh lemon thyme
You might try ground fennel seed , or even anise , but they will not have quite the same quality . You would certainly have to increase the quantity . In situations like this , I have to point out : it does not make sense to make a dish where you are forced to substitute for the ingredient which gives the dish its identity . Instead , make something where you can employ the star ingredient .
By " Italian Sausage " I think you mean the seasoned pork sausage available in many supermarkets throughout the US . I 've found that a 30-70 mix of beef and turkey/chicken works reasonably well as a substitute when pork is not available . Beef is too strong a flavor and turkey too weak in its own . Flavor-wise most italian sausage has red wine , fennel , and oregano .
What I ended up doing was using 1/2 tsp of almond aroma and 1 tbsp of vodka . The taste was good , but I could have put much more vodka . I 'll do that next time .
It does n't do anything , it 's your second suggestion . The feeling of " right/wrong " and " like/dislike " is highly correlated with familiarity . This is proven not only by psychometry , but even physiologically , with fMRI scans . People like most whatever they are familiar with , up to the point that unfamiliar things seem wrong . This applies not only to bay leaves , but also to all other tastes ( or taste combinations ) and many other areas of life , even beyond sensory perception . You can teach yourself to like bay-leaf-less sauce too , by just eating it frequently enough that it becomes familiar . But I do n't see any advantages in doing so . Just cook with bay leaf and enjoy it .
The use-by dates on all spices are mainly hokum . Most spices last for six months in whole form , herbs can be dried and last about three , after that time the taste is going to weaken and change as essential oils leave the spice . If you keep your spices in an airtight dark container you can eek out a little more time , but I would highly recommend that if you want fresh spices you grind yourself and keep fresh herbs on hand ( it 's very little work to grow your own ) . That said , bay leaves last me quite a while , and even after I know they should be retired I tend to just throw more of them in the pot to achieve the same effect .
Kaffir Lime Leaves are using in Thai and Indian cooking in two ways : They may be added whole to a recipe ( such as a soup ) and behave like bay leaves ; diners take them out and do n't eat them . They can be ground fine as part of a spice paste and make the flavoring base for the recipe . There are a few recipes which use slivered kaffir lime leaves , but they are extremely fibrous and ca n't really be eaten unless ground down to a paste .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
Looking at this recipe I do n't see any reason why you could n't use puff pastry as the container . The only ways that the preparation would be different is : puff pastry does n't dry out as fast as filo so you do n't have to worry about the wet towel in the instructions . You would n't want to do multiple layers of puff pastry as the recipe calls for . You would just form a single pouch to hold your filling and seal it well . Know that the texture will be different of course . The filo will be a bit more crisp and the layers larger and more distinct - filo is also a lot more work . You may find that the baking time needs to be adjusted a little but I do n't think it will be very different if at all . Cook them until they 're golden using the recipe 's time as a starting point . This recipe is in a Mediterranean style and filo would be more traditional but puff pastry would produce something tasty .
The biggest cause of mould or fungus is humidity ( moisure , dampness , water in the air ) and the leaves by nature will produce this as they dry . After all , the drying process is removing water from the plant . As long as you dry the herbs in an area with plenty of air circulation ( to avoid humidity build up and take away any moisture as the leaves dry ) you should be fine . Make sure the herbs are n't bunched together , spread them out on a tray so the air can circulate around them . Turn them over regularly - every day or every 6 hours or so so they can dry evenly . Remove any damaged/crushed/torn leaves or stems where mould can get a hold and spread . Also remember just because the outside leaves stems may feel dry , the insides may not be , so give them longer to dry out than you think .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
Your best bets are glass and stainless steel . There is no risk of corrosion with stainless steel , as opposed to aluminum or cast iron , which may react with acidic foods . Zip-type bags are also excellent for marinating , and disposable . You can use plastic like Tupperware , but there is some risk of staining . I would not choose wood , as the marinade may permeate into the grain of the wood , leaving stains and a permanent aroma .
It should be OK , especially if you are purchasing already homogenized almond milk . If you are using homemade almond milk , your glaze wo n't be perfectly smooth , which may or may not bother you . Your " glaze " is a standard ganache , and it can be , in principle , made with water or any real dairy . The only purpose of the liquid is to change the consistency of the chocolate to something thinner and softer than a chocolate bar . Cream is the standard choice because it imparts a luscioius creaminess . But you can use lower fat dairy , or cultured dairy products , or even water , if you want a slightly different taste . A nut milk is simply finely ground nuts mixed with water , frequently also sweetened . It has its own taste , but nuts and chocolate are a classic combination , and even if people notice the faint taste , they are n't likely to complain . Texturewise , there will be no problem from adding it to the chocolate .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
Lime juice is n't going to make it less spicy , if anything I 've found it accentuates the spiciness a bit although I 'm not sure of the mechanism . It could be that the acidity frees up more capsaicin compounds ( what makes hot food hot ) , or wakes up your taste buds more . Most likely you have simply added a weak jalapeno . Peppers of the same variety can vary in heat strength quite a bit depending on the where and how it was grown , although you 'll get weak and strong peppers from the same plant . You can make up for the lack of spice by adding more jalapeno or a bit of hot chili powder .
This recipe ! found <URL> , calls for buttermilk or sour cream . Perhaps you can find sour cream . Crème fraîche 1 cup heavy or whipping cream , room temperature 1 tablespoon buttermilk or 1/2 cup sour cream , room temperature In a jar with a lid , place whipping cream and buttermilk ( or sour cream ) ; cover securely and shake 15 seconds . Set aside at room temperature for 24 hours or until very thick . Stir once or twice during that time . NOTE : Cream will thicken faster if the room is warm . Stir thickened creme fraiche well . Refrigerate at least 6 hours before serving . Cover tightly and store in refrigerator for up to 2 weeks .
In this recipe , the nibs are being used as an accent ingredient , adding some crunchiness and a burst of chocolate flavor , as well as some bitterness . They are not essential to chemistry or overall outcome of the recipe . You may : Simply omit them Chopped or coarsely ground roasted coffee would have a similar profile , although not as fatty , and of course , coffee flavored Try another crunchy , possibly somewhat bitter ingredient like chopped nuts ; almonds , hazelnuts , and ( in some people 's opinions , although I dislike them ) walnuts have a particular affinity for chocolate .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
You can easily make your own anchovy paste from canned anchovies . This <URL> shows how : Chop the anchovies fairly finely Mash with a fork until smooth Some sites recommend adding a little oil for a smoother texture . I have never tried it , but I do n't see any reason this would not freeze exceptionally well , as neither whole anchovies nor the paste are used for their texture .
end question
start question
Does a long marinade time matter for chicken , shrimp , etc ?
No marinade penetrates very deeply in unless : The marinade is quite salty , as the salt can diffuse past cell membranes into the meat The marinade contains an active enzyme or acidic component which will denature the meat over time , allowing deeper penetration Marination is by its very nature a surface treatment , although one that can add considerable flavor . Kenji Alt at <URL> says ( in regards to flank steak ) : In reality , a marinade is mostly a surface treatment , and not much benefit lies in marinating for more than half a day or so . If you 'd like the flavor of the marinade to completely coat your meat , your best bet is to reserve some marinade and simply toss your meat with it after it has been cooked and sliced . I am more partial to the dry rub or wet rub myself . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> with experiment showing limited penetration into beef
Stretch and fold should be done in both directions . One stretch and fold , in most techniques that I read , is stretching like you stay , folding , then rotating 90 degrees and repeating . You can see an excellent example of stretch and fold in <URL> and <URL> . Where they do it and then turn it - that 's one stretch and fold .
Shrimp are extremely lean and have very little connective tissue , which means that the longer they cook the harder they get . Fresh shrimp , for example , only need to be fried for about one minute per side ( depending on their size ) . This makes cooking frozen shrimp very difficult : By the time the outside has thawed and is perfectly cooked , the inside will still likely be frozen . If you cook them long enough for the inside to thaw and cook ( e.g. , 30 minutes ) , the outside will likely be extremely hard . I would recommend thawing the shrimp before cooking , for example , by leaving them in the refrigerator overnight . Another quick way to thaw them is to place them in a bowl and run a stream of cold water over them in your sink . Next , thoroughly dry the shrimp , which will help <URL> and promote the <URL> . Only cook the shrimp until they turn slightly pink and begin to curl on one side , then flip . Depending on the size , this should be no more than , say , two minutes per side . Then proceed with the remainder of the recipe . Also take into account if the recipe calls for simmering the shrimp in the cream sauce ; if so , then this will continue to cook the shrimp and you will not need to fry them as long .
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
Yes ! Sugar is often used as a " wet " ingredient in baking . That means it needs to be dissolved in the water in order to prevent too much gluten from being produced ( making the result fluffy/flaky , and not chewy ) . Different sugars hold different amounts of moisture ( for example , brown sugar holds more than white ) and using sugar with crystals that are too large ( or too small ) will make the texture come out completely wrong . Too small and your cake will be rubber ; too large and your biscuit will fall apart . Also , if you 're using the sugar for creaming ( with fat ) , you generally need to use a coarser sugar . Superfine sugar will dissolve too quickly and wo n't allow enough air to be incorporated . Confectioner 's sugar is good for creaming but has completely different properties from crystal sugar - it 's been " processed " and has cornstarch added , so you ca n't just substitute in equal quantities . Of course , it goes without saying that the taste is different as well . But even more important than the taste are the solubility characteristics which , as explained above , will have noticeable effects on other parts of the recipe . It does depend what you 're baking ; if the sugar is being used purely for flavouring , then you can use whatever sugar you like . Much of the time in baking though , sugar is used for more than just sweetening , and it 's important to be aware of that . If the sugar is being creamed or dissolved , do n't substitute unless you 're sure you know what you 're doing .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
Actually , hard boiling is one of the recommended uses for older eggs , since <URL> . I 'd highly recommend against using old eggs if you were going to whip the whites , for example , or any other heavy " structural " application . Quiche would probably be fine .
The general rule of thumb with cakes and quick breads is that within certain limits : The larger the cake the lower the temperature The smaller the cake , the higher the temperature The reason is that you want to get nice crust formation and browning in the time in takes the muffin or cupcake to cook through . However , mini-muffins or cupcakes have so little mass that they will bake through quite quickly , and may be easy to over bake at higher temperatures . This article at <URL> , in regards to converting standard cupcakes to mini-cupcakes recommends : While most cupcakes take about 15-20 minutes to bake , most mini cupcakes take from 9-14 minutes or so to reach donenss . Check your minis at 9 or 10 minutes with a toothpick and bake longer as needed . The only thing you really need to look out for is the fact that it is easy to overbake these miniature cakes , so keep a close eye on them while they 're baking and check them at very short intervals when they 're close to being done . This matches my experience for full sized muffins and cupcakes : full sized muffins should bake in about 18-22 minutes -- if they take longer , raise the oven temperature on the next batch slightly . They do not suggest changing the temperature for minis . The tips at <URL> concur : If recipes do n't specify mini baking times , note that minis will take more than half of the baking time recommended for standard size cupcakes . My survey of a number of mini-cupcake recipes shows the general consensus is about 10 minutes , or half the time of a regular cupcake . Remember , however , the smaller the cake , the more little factors like your actual oven temperature , how much batter you put in the tin ( and how consistently you fill each cup ) , the moisture level of your batter , and so on affect the outcome . All of my experience is with standard sized cupcakes and muffins , or muffin tops . If I had a mini , pan , I would determine the best baking time by : Doing a half-tray , and checking it when they start to smell done ( if you are an experienced baker , you will know what this means ) , or at about 8 minutes . Continue checking every minute or so , until you find they are done with the toothpick test . Bake a second half-tray to that time without all of the door opening , to confirm your findings . Adjust as necessary , and you will then know the best time for your oven and that particular recipe -- assuming you fill the tins consistently . ( I use a food disher -- like an ice cream scoop -- for this purpose . ) Note : the purpose of the half tray is to have less cakes with a less than perfect bake . Once you dial in the ideal baking time , go for full trays for less work . I also suggest not doing multiple trays at the same time , as they will change the way the air circulates in the oven , and mask the radiant heat from each other . This makes for less consistent results .
It 's absolutely fine to make the dough in advance , just do n't let it dry out . It even freezes well . There is more good information on <URL> on the subject . Keep it on the counter for up to a day , refrigerated for up to three days , frozen for up to 6 months ( for best quality ) . In any case that you want to hold the dough , be sure that your baking powder ( if using ) is of the <URL> variety .
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
I have n't really experimented , but if imagining how dry that stuff is and the amount of salt that goes inside one those , I would say in the months/years range . Just keep it in a cool dry place . .
It is a common misconception that the shelf life of a cooked food ( = mix of ingredients ) is the same as the shelf life of the shortest-lived ingredient . I can not stress enough how wrong this assumption is . As with any cooked food , the shelf life of hot chocolate should be about 3 to 5 days in the fridge , with a cumulative stay in the danger zone of no longer than 2 hours . An explanation of why the assumption is wrong : Food spoils when bacteria ( or sometimes other organisms like mold ) create a colony in it . For this to happen , the food has to offer all the conditions an organism needs for survival . Most cooked foods are nutritious enough to ensure the survival of simple organisms . There are single ingredients which hold for longer . Bar chocolate is a good example . The reason for that is that they are not a complete medium . Chocolate does not have enough moisture for bacteria to grow in it . But as soon as you mix any ingredient with something else , you can not know if the other ingredients have not added the factor the bacteria have been missing . So , if you mix for example water ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no calories ) and flour ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no moisture ) , you get dough , which will have large bacterial colonies within 3 days . Exceptions in the other direction ( food that spoils sooner than 3 days ) are foods which decompose on their own . For example fish - it goes bad quickly even at fridge temperature , but the reason is the fish 's own enzymes , not bacteria . That 's why it is normally held on ice , if not frozen outright . As a side note , you can not rely on the expiration date of milk anyway . It is OK for traditionally pasteurized milk . But the expiration date of ESL and UHT milk is only valid as long as the packaging has not been broken . Once you open it , it is again good for about 5 days . Conclusion : For anything cooked , up to 5 days in the fridge is a good assumption . Make it less for food which is known for high risk of contamination ( e.g. food containing raw eggs ) , but never longer , even if the expiration date of the ingredients is longer than that .
Harvest time can have a large effect on the quality of the tea . First off , whether it was the first harvest of the year or a later one will greatly change the character of the tea . The dates can also be used similar to the vintage dates of wine . If you got a tea from a specific region and know the date of the harvest , if you find another tea from the same region and same date , it will have been grown under similar conditions . Also , since black and oolong teas have been oxidized , the oxidation process will continue to some extent as the tea ages , further changing the flavor . The date can be used to predict freshness , and also to find a tea that suits your tastes better ( for instance , I know that I like many black teas better after they have aged for a year or two ) .
As a beer brewer , I 'm pretty concerned with fizz ;) Since the below may be a little tl ; dr , the short answer to your question is , " I do n't think so . " This is actually the first time I 've heard of the metal spoon " trick " , so I ca n't directly comment on that , but I 'll share a little of what I know about carbonation . Carbonation is carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) that is dissolved in the liquid ( beer , champagne , soda ) . The fizz is that CO2 coming out of solution and escaping into the air . Keeping it cold helps keep the fizz , as CO2 dissolves more readily into a cold liquid . And conversely , comes out of a warm liquid more readily . Ever pour a glass of warm soda or champagne straight after opening ? It 'll foam over everywhere . The only way to not lose all that CO2 is to seal the container . Even then , the CO2 will come out of solution and pressurize the headspace ( space in the top of the container ) . That 's why you get a hiss when you first open a bottle . Again , temperature comes into play . In a warm bottle , more of the CO2 comes out of solution and pressurizes the headspace . Chill that same bottle down , and the CO2 can dissolve back into the liquid , giving you a sparkling beverage again . Now , back to the spoon . I would think that putting a spoon in the carbonation liquid would produce <URL> , causing the CO2 to come out of solution faster . This is why many beer glass manufacturers are coming out with laser-etched designs on the bottom of their glasses - the effervescence caused by the nucleation points helps bring out the hop aromas .
Enzymes which degrade proteins , called proteases , are found in many fruits . There is no simple test for it other than holding some in your mouth and seeing if it " eats " your flesh away after a few minutes Commercial test are not practical or portable as they require maceration , heating , centrifuging and using florescent dye markers . Or just make some in gelatine and see what happens :-) A quick list would be : Fig - Ficin Ginger - zingipain Kiwi fruit - Actinidin Papaya ( Pawpaw ) - Papain Pineapple - Bromelain Also to a lesser extent Banana Guava Mango It is in many other fruits , but at levels where they will not be a problem , of course at different levels depending on the specific fruit variety etc. .
If your quartering of the chicken was done quickly then you are just asking how long you can keep a chicken in the fridge . <URL> Your 40 hours is fine .
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
Assuming you do n't normally buy pre-brined / injected birds , you should notice a difference ... <URL> , it should be noticeably moist and tender , especially the white meat . A couple of things to try : Increase the time in the brine . 10 hours is plenty for breasts or quarters , but a whole chicken may take longer . A whole turkey will definitely take longer ! Check your salt . A cup of small-crystal table salt per gallon of water should be fine , but if you 're using flakes ( kosher and some sea salt ) , you may be producing too weak a brine ! If in doubt , weight it out . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
Fresh tomatoes for home-made pizzas , is it worth it ?
No , it 's not worth the bother . Get a few cans of crushed tomatoes and simmer them slowly with whole garlic cloves and some chopped onion for a few hours until it 's thickened ( but not like paste ) . Season and you 're good to go .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
Butter is at most 82 % oil and the rest is water . So , you 're going to need to add more butter for the same amount of oil . Besides , you need to adjust the liquid content accordingly since you are going to have more water than you planned . If you are going to use the same amount of oil , then it will not make any difference other than the taste . Just make sure they are of same state ( i.e. melted butter instead of vegetable oil or vice versa )
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
If you are really set on doing this , just use the same amount by weight or volume , preferably peeling the tomatoes first . ( Cut an x in the bottom , dip in boiling water for 10 seconds , pull off the peel ) . You 'll have plenty of liquid coming out of the tomato , do n't worry about that . But honestly , I do n't recommend doing this . Fresh tomatoes that are any good are so good uncooked that it is a waste , and fresh tomatoes that are n't good wo n't get better by cooking them . Even Mario Batali says you should use canned tomatoes for cooked sauces .
You will be fine . As the chicken softens , and with a bit of a stir , it will all get cooked . the steam and conductive heat will cook and keep safe even the minuscule portion above the water line .
From your description , if it is n't tripe , then it is probably <URL> . This is often used in soup an other dishes and has a neutral flavor . The texture can be from soft to slightly crunchy depending on the length of cooking .
Since you are asking about canning then what you are describing is not a canning process which will give you a result you can store long term at room temperature . Long-term storage of soup would require pressure canning to raise the internal temperature high enough to kill any foodborne illnesses . If you plan to freeze the soup then mason jars are n't ideal , they 'll work but they are bulky and take up a lot of room . In any case you do n't get any real benefit from putting the lid on when hot if you are going to freeze them , you 're better off letting it cool so you do n't end up overwhelming your freezer 's cooling capacity .
There are a number of reasons why the flavor of tomatoes changes during both the cooking and drying processes . The first is that when drying the tomatoes , farmers and processors will dust the tomatoes in fairly high levels of salt , which helps to keep harmful microbes and insects from eating into the fruit and causing rot and infections . The second is that when drying anything , you need to remove the water from the flesh of whatever it is you 're drying . This causes all of the flavor molecules to become more concentrated . The resulting flavor is more intense because there is simply more flavor per bite . The final and probably most important ( and beautiful :) reason is chemistry . Tomatoes play house to something like 400 volatile aromatic compounds - that is , molecular structures that change and break apart during the acts of heating or drying . While I do n't have the EXACT science in front of me right now ( and ca n't seem to find it on the interblags ) there 's strong indications that it has quite a bit to do with the structure of sulfur-heavy amino acids , c6 volatiles , and glutamic acid breaking down over the course of the drying process - due to the evaporation of water and introduction of salt - and changing into different aroma molecules . All of these , taken together together have a profound impact on the flavor profile of sundried tomatoes .
Yes , it is normal for pulses to develop froth when soaked . I 've seen it at lower temperatures and shorter soaking times . They can feel slimy too . This is n't a sign of bacteria development in itself . Chickpeas , as well as other legumes , contain lots of saponins . Saponins are a type of detergent , and they form a foam when dissolved in water . An example is found in Saponin content of food plants and some prepared foods by D. Fenwick and D. Oakenfull , published in Journal of the science of food and agriculture , vol . 34-2 ( no free version available ) . Chickpeas , soy , lucerne , and other legumes all had significant amounts of saponin , 56 g/kg in the case of chickpeas . Note that soaking dissolves also lots of other molecules contained in the beans . Some recommend to soak and throw out the soaking water in order to remove the oligosaccharides contained in most legumes , because bacteria breaking down these indigestible sugars produce gases as a side product , which is felt as bloating . McGee reminds us that this soaking also dissolves many of the micronutrients contained in the beans , and advices against the practice . If the beans are soaked ( for shortening of cooking times ) , the soaked water should be used for cooking . If the eaters experience bloating , the beans should be cooked for a longer time , to give oligosaccharides time to break down under temperature . This was about the general case , but now a note on your current situation . The conditions of your chickpea soaking were risky . Your chickpeas can have developed bacteria independently of the froth . In temperate regions , soakers are n't a problem , because bacteria growth in them is not especially quick ( the 2 hours rule is made tight enough to cover things like meat , and a soaker does n't even have enough hydrated bacteria food initially ) . But I have noticed that food I would have had no problem with at 22 ° C goes bad in short time at 28 ° C . The relationship between bacteria growth and temperature is not linear , and with growing heat , bacteria growth can speed up a lot . So I do n't know if I would eat the peas - not because of the froth , but because of the conditions you had them in . I would recommend that you soak in the fridge next time - you do n't need any fermentation to take place , so the low temperatures are n't a problem .
Unfortunately you 're fighting bread-physics ... Bread with a high crust : crumb ratio become stale faster than those with low crust : crumb ratios like large boules or miches . Their large surface area allows moisture to evaporate quickly and the starches dry up and harden . This is why thin breads like baguettes are traditionally " daily " breads , i.e. made/purchased to be consumed that day . Soft pretzels have an even higher crust : crumb ratio than baguettes . Breads with extremely high crust : crumb ratios like hard pretzels , crackers , and hardtack are usually cooked to the point of being dry to prolong their storage capacity . These bread actually " stale " in the opposite direction by becoming more moist . There are a couple of things you could try that might help a little . It might take a lot of experimenting to get something that helps , and you will likely still need to reheat the pretzels just prior to serving them to have the soft texture you 're looking for . Without re-baking or light toasting there really is n't a way to bring back the original crust texture . Use pre-ferments to increase the concentration of a-amylase in your pretzels . Using a prolonged autolyse and/or sourdough starter can increase the amount of a-amylase in your bread which has been <URL> to slow staling . Incorporate conditioning ingredients like fat , sugar , malt , or honey into your dough . All of these slow staling . Try baking the pretzels at a lower temperature . The article linked above also mentioned that higher temperature baking leads to faster staling . For storage , your best option is probably to allow them to cool completely ( 15-30 minutes ) then place them in a sealed container at room temperature . Placing them in a sealed container before they are cool fills the container with humidity , which then coalesces and makes the crust soggy .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
It is n't necessary to even thaw bones before tossing them in the water , so long as you 're cooking long enough . With that said , to roast first and then toss in the stock , the goal is to get some browning going ( I 'm assuming your recipe says to roast at a relatively high temp like 400 ) to add some flavor , much like browning the meat at the bottom of a pot for a stew . Tossing them in the oven at 400 degrees for about 30-45 minutes will brown them for you and you 're not too worried about getting the insides cooked ( the core reason to why people do n't try to roast frozen meat ) . Stocks in general is as far from an exact thing as any recipe can go . There was this interesting article talking about all the differences in schools ... <URL> So in conclusion ... it is n't necessary . If you 're a stickler for recipes or you 're trying to duplicate something as close as you can , thaw the bones .
Its been a while but I found this thread as I was wondering the same thing ... Not much info on raw okara but I just googled raw soybeans ... " For human consumption , soybeans must be cooked with " wet " heat to destroy the trypsin inhibitors ( serine protease inhibitors ) . Raw soybeans , including the immature green form , are toxic to humans , swine , chickens , and in fact , all monogastric animals . " From wikipedia <URL>
Surprisingly , the answer seems to be a qualified yes , however the texture is not the same . The dried gnocchi turned out to be much better if fried after boiling ; see below . Here are the results of my experiment : I dried a small amount of the fresh Gnocchi by placing them in a 150 degree ( Farenheit ) oven for about an hour , then turning off the oven and leaving them in all day . It is very dry here , so that did the trick . I boiled the dried gnocchi after several days of storage . They took about ten times longer to boil than their fresh counterparts . Even after they were fully cooked , they were not as soft as the fresh gnocchi , and they never regained their original size or shape . Overall , they were denser , firmer , and less sticky . Not desirable traits necessarily , but they were quite edible . I decided to pan-fry a small batch in about a tablespoon of oil , and these turned out wonderfully ! I have pan-fried gnocchi before , and it tends to be hard to keep them intact and keep them from sticking . The previously dried gnocchi , however , did not stick and held up to vigorous frying . The result were gnocchi with a crispy exterior and soft ( if somewhat dense ) interior . The crispy outside and flavor reminded me of samosas . These were n't just edible , they were great . I plan to dry about half of my next batch and use the dried gnocchi exclusively for frying .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
I 'd suggest <URL> as a starting point . They specifically investigated the food safety of chicken in 2010 and found that ( among other things ) : Campylobacter was in 62 percent of the chickens , salmonella was in 14 percent , and both bacteria were in 9 percent . Only 34 percent of the birds were clear of both pathogens . That 's double the percentage of clean birds we found in our 2007 report but far less than the 51 percent in our 2003 report . Store-brand organic chickens had no salmonella at all , showing that it 's possible for chicken to arrive in stores without that bacterium riding along . But as our tests showed , banishing one bug does n't mean banishing both : 57 percent of those birds harbored campylobacter . Among all brands and types of broilers tested , 68 percent of the salmonella and 60 percent of the campylobacter organisms we analyzed showed resistance to one or more antibiotics . The same issue seems to come up over and over again in food safety questions , and I really ca n't stress this enough : Salmonella is not the only dangerous bacteria in food . <URL> is just <URL> and produces heat-resistant enterotoxins that simply put , can make you very , very sick . Perfringens is also common , and <URL> . I 've seen a number of articles and blogs claiming that people " worry too much " and most of them cite Ippuku in SF , which generated quite a stir by serving chicken tartare . It 's legal in many countries for a restaurant to serve raw or undercooked food , provided that there is informed consent ( the customer is specifically informed or specifically orders that their food be undercooked ) . However , legal is a very long way from safe , especially when we 're talking about raw meat . Steak tartare is more acceptable because , for some reason , <URL> and the incidence of E.coli is <URL> at only 0.26 % . Raw beef is n't totally safe but most healthy people who eat it will not have complications afterward . So , to summarize : Raw chicken : ~ 20 % salmonella ( depending on source ) , ~ 60 % campylobacter ( any source ) Raw beef : Less than 0.1 % e.coli , ~ 2 % campylobacter ( any source ) Conclusion : If you eat raw beef ( steak tartare ) , you 're a risk-taker . If you eat raw chicken , you have a death wish . Just say no . At an absolute minimum , please do n't serve this to your dinner guests with assurances that it will be safe . What you do to your own body is your decision to make , but it would be grossly irresponsible to serve anything made with raw chicken to anyone who has n't been made fully aware of the risks . P.S. . Some of this data may be U.S. specific , but the problem is worldwide . For example : A <URL> showed a 36.7 % contamination rate for salmonella and 84.3 % for campylobacter , ( thanks TFD ! ) . A <URL> showed a 37.5 % incidence rate for salmonella and 75 % for campylobacter . So do n't expect to be safer simply because you do n't live in the U.S. . If you 're planning on doing this , you should check what your country 's regulations and current statistics are regarding salmonella , campylobacter , C. perfringens , and listeria , for farms and plants producing chicken meat . That is your actual risk . Buying " organic " might help , or might not , since organic is currently not a true legal or regulatory category in most regions .
end question
start question
Sticky aluminum half sheet pans - Self cleaning oven - What would happen ?
I 'd be mighty cautious about putting aluminum pans in your oven 's self-cleaning cycle . It 's melting point is 660 degrees C , and although your oven is n't going to reach that it will probably get to the point where they will warp .
I 've had good luck baking naan on an indoor grill . I have an electric one , but you could use a stovetop one as well . Just apply a little butter , ghee , or spray oil , wipe it off , and bake . ( Click for larger images ) <URL> <URL> I used an alternative method to make lavash : an inverted wok over a stove burner . You 'll need a gas stove to do this one . I applied them dry , cooked about 1-2 minutes on one side only . You can brush with butter or ghee after they 're done . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
Lining with foil works well with cooking methods like baking or broiling , where the food is not stirred or manipulated much , and so the foil can sit undisturbed . With stir frying , you are quite likely to break through the foil while doing the stirring , and have to clean up fully in any case . Also , you probably would not get as good a stir fry due the thin layer of insulating air between the pan surface and the food . This is not something I would try .
Some people think adding olive oil to pasta water will keep the pasta from sticking , but in reality it does absolutely nothing . Adding a tablespoon of oil to pasta water wo n't affect the outcome in the slightest , doing that is a waste of a good ingredient . Adding olive oil to pasta after it has been drained on the other hand will keep the pasta from sticking . It will also make it oily , which may not be what you want .
Short answer , if you trust the brining job of the manufacturer , you wo n't gain much by rebrining . In brining you 're looking to get a certain amount of moisture " trapped " by the salt in the turkey , which they have , in essence , done for you already with the brining solution . However , that brining solution is usually injected rather than soaked in , so I wonder about the dispersion . Add to that that I actually throw a little sugar into my brining solution ( not a lot ) and some pickling spice and you can see why you 'd want to brine it , but without getting it too salty . The answer is to go with a longer soak ( 12 hour or overnight ) versus a 4 hour brine , with the lower salt content that you 'd use for a long soak . That will balance out the salt levels as the solution 's osmotic pressure equalizes . I use 1/2 Cup of table salt per gallon of water . You can leave a turkey in that solution for ... a long , long time and it wo n't be too salty . It 's all about equalizing the salt/liquid level inside the turkey . If you are REALLY concerned about it and have the time , you could soak your turkey in plain water overnight , which would pull out some/most of the brining solution , then brine normally the next day , to put your salt and spices back in . However , I would be concerned about losing some flavor from the turkey that way .
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
You are relying on very different forms of heat . Conduction vs Convection vs Radiation <URL> <URL> <URL> What happens when you heat something ? A number of things . Proteins Coagulate Starches Gelatinize Sugars Caramelize Water Evaporates Fats Melt Depending on how you cook it , you 're going to get different forms of each of those at different rates . On a stove , you can avoid too much moisture and fat from leaving your food by cooking it extremely quickly ( in a stir-fry ) . . You ca n't sear something in an oven and you ca n't roast something on the stove . The two are simply not the same , because fundamentally the two are not the same , you are not going to get the same results . It 's really as simple as that . You ca n't take two entirely methods and argue that you get the same results .
The care of bamboo cutting boards is extremely similar to that of traditional wood cutting boards : Prime them with mineral oil , and refresh it every month or so . ( Wipe with oil , let sit for a while , perhaps 15-20 minutes , wipe off ) . Wash only with mild soap , and rinse and dry immediately . ( Wipe off and let air dry . ) Do n't put in a dishwasher . If using for raw meat , you can sanitize with a very dilute bleach solution ( about a teaspoon of liquid bleach per quart of water , 5 mL per liter ) . Rinse thoroughly afterwards .
Really , this is just to even out cooking times for vegetables that do n't have a surface area to volume ratio consistent with the other things you 're stir-frying . If you were to shred those green beans , as is sometimes done , you could put them in at the same time as raw , julienned carrots , and they would finish at the same time . If you put them in whole , you 'll end up with beans that are burned on the outside and raw on the inside , as there 's not enough time for the heat to penetrate to the center of the bean before the outside burns . Or , if you fry at a lower heat , you could get the beans cooked , but would have to add the carrots later ( which means a lower temperature , too , since the beans are dragging heat out of your pan ) in order to have them not turn to mush .
The potato is probably not as important as the method . Simply frying them will not get you the fry you want . Basically you boil them , then double fry them . Here are the steps for <URL> : Ingredients 2 pounds russet potatoes ( about 4 large ) , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch by 1/4-inch fries ( keep potatoes stored in a bowl of water ) 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar Kosher salt 2 quarts peanut oil Procedure Place potatoes and vinegar in saucepan and add 2 quarts of water and 2 tablespoons of salt . Bring to a boil over high heat . Boil for 10 minutes . Potatoes should be fully tender , but not falling apart . Drain and spread on paper towel-lined rimmed baking sheet . Allow to dry for five minutes . Meanwhile , heat oil in 5-quart Dutch oven or large wok over high heat to 400 ° F. Add 1/3 of fries to oil ( oil temperature should drop to around 360 ° F ) . Cook for 50 seconds , agitating occasionally with wire mesh spider , then remove to second paper-towel lined rimmed baking sheet . Repeat with remaining potatoes ( working in two more batches ) , allowing oil to return to 400 ° F after each addition . Allow potatoes to cool to room temperature , about 30 minutes . Continue with step 3 , or for best results , freeze potatoes at least over night , or up to 2 months . Return oil to 400 ° F over high heat . Fry half of potatoes until crisp and light golden brown , about 3 1/2 minutes , adjusting heat to maintain at around 360 ° F. Drain in a bowl lined with paper towels and season immediately with kosher salt . Cooked fries can be kept hot and crisp on a wire rack set on a sheet tray in a 200 ° F oven while second batch is cooked . Serve immediately . Worth reading is also <URL> .
The main reason why you want to cut the duck in half and roast them with the skin side pointing upwards is so the skin of the duck is nice and crispy . Unlike most roasted poultry where you do n't eat the skin , the duck 's skin is considered a huge delicacy if it is crispy .
A pizza stone in a normal oven will only get the maximum temperature of the oven ( probably not more than 280 ºC / 530 ºF ) . A specific pizza oven will gett hotter ( the one you linked gets 390 ºC / 735 ºF and , indeed has a stone inside ) . If you want to get Italian style pizzas , go for the pizza oven . They need that high temperature in order to be ready in ( ideally ) 90 seconds . Those Ferrari ovens are one of Italian 's favourite ones , albeit they 'll need a bit more time than 1.5 minutes achievable in wood fired traditional pizza ovens . You ( probably ) wo n't be able to achieve those high temperatures with a normal home kitchen oven , unless you have a pyrolytic home oven , and hack it in order to cook in it during the pyrolysis cycle . As for the waiting time between pizzas using a stone , consider it as a capacitor ( or a rechargeable battery ) : It takes heat ( until is soaked up ) , and then gives it back . Once you make 1 pizza ( or a loaf of bread ) , it needs to soak ( a bit ) again .
One tablespoon is three teaspoons , so no , it ca n't be considered half a tablespoon because it 's one-third instead :) You can use three teaspoons to measure out one tablespoon , but it might be tricky to measure the other way : as Rumstacio said below , the 1/3 is by volume , and it can be difficult to eyeball the volume of a semi-sphere ( 1.3 the height of the spoon is not 1/3 the volume because it 's wider at the top ) .
Here I 'm assuming that you mean macaroons as in the French patisserie <URL> rather than the simpler coconut or almond based <URL> . In any case almond meal and almond flour are essentially the same thing , both are almonds ground into a fine ( or not so much in your case ) ' flour ' or ' powder ' . <URL> , almond flour is made from ' blanched ' ( almonds which have had their skin removed ) almonds whereas almond meal can be made from either almonds with their skins on ( whole ) or ' blanched ' . I have , however , always found them to be used interchangeably . If your problem is graininess , then you could either sieve the ground almonds before using or blitz/grind them finer in a food processor until the desired consistency is reached , however if you 're grinding them in a food processor make sure you do it in small batches or if you 're making macarons blitz them with the icing sugar ( for the tant pour tant ) to avoid making <URL> . Personally , I would do both to achieve a fine powder .
You may have been served Bearnaise , which is a common red meat sauce . Bearnaise is based on Hollandaise ( a mother sauce ) , a butter based sauce . Hollandaise is somewhat advanced to make because it is important to keep the temperature right and the ratios correct while making it , but the result is worth the effort .
Way too many variables . If you knew how warm the chicken was before cooking , how hot the cooking area is ( and whether that will change during the cooking time ) , how thick the chicken is , whether you 're cooking white or dark meat , and more , you might be able to make a good guess . I would not recommend cooking just thawed , thick pieces of chicken on an uncovered grill . Too easy to make it hard on the outside and dry on the inside . I would n't estimate lower than 20 minutes , but it will almost certainly be longer . Edit : Here 's a " Good Eats " video about doing chicken on a grill . <URL> It 's better to go ahead and cut the chicken up the rest of the way for grilling so that each type and size of meat can be on it 's own cooking schedule .
I think it depends how fussy a presentation you are working on . If it has to be perfect , there really is n't going to be any fixing it . If some variation is acceptable , just wait til it is a bit softer and patch the rip back together like you would any other dough . You 'll get less nice separation of the layers in that area .
Reducing the amount of charcoal used in the Orion Cooker and cooking longer can produce a more tender result . Specifically , using 6 lb of a 12.5 lb bag of charcoal and cooking for 120 minutes for 3 racks produced ribs that were not quite as tender as desired , but much better than the normal Orion recipe ( 12.5 lb of charcoal for 70 minutes ) . The temperature profile was as follows : The above shows that the meat temperature was held between 195 and 205 for 60 minutes . This profile is not optimal for the most tender ribs , so additional changes toward lower/slower may improve the result . Note that the charcoal reduction required a minor modification to the equipement since unless the charcoal is adjacent to the Cooker 's wall , the wood chips will not smoke . The modification is shown in a you tube video entitled " Orion Cooker Charcoal Saving Mod And Improved Tender Rib Cooking " ( <URL> ) .
end question
start question
What are those black fibers in my mango ?
It 's an indication that the fruit has started to rot : When dark spots start appearing on the side of a mango , it 's starting to rot . A mango can rot from the pit , the skin , or from the non-stem end . Any black fibers also indicate that the fruit has started to rot , and at that point , you need to toss it into the trash . From : <URL> Edit : Yes , the above is probably being overcautious in stating " any black fibers ? → trash ! " It 's from a " Dummies " book after all . ;) I could n't really find another good reference . But I 'm sure you can make the distinction between a piece of fruit that has a small brown spot and one that 's black and shriveled . Still , the color of the fibers is a result of the late ripening/rotting process of the mango , rather than a result of an earlier stage in its growth . But having eaten this mango with the one , tiny black fiber shown in her picture , I do n't really expect to read Mien 's obituary on this site tomorrow . ;)
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
My guess is that you do n't have real cheese in your sandwich . I 've seen this before with things called cheese that were really types of <URL> . It happened when then product was exposed to moisture that it seemed to absorb , which then caused it to turn soggy and glue-like . If you 'd have said that you had tomato in your sandwich , I 'd have been sure this was what was going on .
Good Answer Hobodave ... tacking onto that : Most southern U.S. brands ( White Lily , Martha White ) of all-purpose flour are bleached because southerners tend to make more quick breads ( biscuits , cornbread , hoecakes , pancakes , as well as cakes , pie crusts , cobblers ) where tenderness is desired . White Lily has just started producing unbleached all-purpose flour as well . Brands from the Northeast ( King Arthur ) and midwest are usually unbleached because those regions tend to make more yeast breads and the additional gluten forming capability of unbleached flour produces better results . National U.S. brands ( Pillsbury/Gold Medal ) often produce both types or stick with unbleached . Cake flour is always bleached ( usually chlorine gas ) . More information on differences in types of flour can be found in my article titled <URL>
The current most common term in English appears to be " century egg " , but it 's also been known as a thousand-year egg or hundred-year egg . It 's typically produced by aging in a solution of table salt , calcium hydroxide , and sodium carbonate , but traditional methods involved less refined versions of those chemicals wrapped in clay ( and some quantity of rice bran ) . More details in this <URL> . <URL> Image : Wikipedia/Wiki commons
I think the truffles that are exported are of better quality on average than what you 'll find on the european market . I 've never tried the american ones consciously ( they 're not imported to Europe as far as I know ) . You could also take into account that the fresher the truffles are the better the quality , so in theory it would be better to eat american truffles in the USA and european truffles in Europe . Given the mind boggling price differences and the supposed high quality of the stuff <URL> , you 're likely going to be well off picking the local stuff .
I think the toffee potatoes in the article must be Brune kartofler ; the literal translation is " brown potatoes " . They are simply small potatoes covered in caramelized sugar . The photo Ocaasi links to are potatoes gone terribly wrong . I think the photo caption is ironic . They are a traditional side dish for any christmas meal with pork roast or duck . Here is a video that shows how they are made : <URL> . The recipe is as follows : Boil small potatoes . Peel them . Distribute sugar evenly in the pan . Warm until the sugar caramelizes . Add butter in small pieces ( amount of butter and sugar are equal ) . When the butter is incorporated add the potatoes . Distribute the caramel over the potates . After 10 minutes the potatoes are done . They should now have a nice layer of caramel around them .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
Your local hardware store or DIY shop will likely have an assortment of dust masks you could try . The simplest ones would be cheap and very quick to put on and remove , and should help . It seems a little over the top to have to put on a mask for using pepper , but perhaps you 're extra sensitive and it 's just something you 'll have to deal with . Do you have any reaction at all from eating things with lots of black pepper ? Finally , you might look at how you 're physically dispensing the pepper . If you 're shaking it from a container you 're likely to stir up a small cloud of fine pepper dust . If you 're not already doing so , consider trying to use a tiny measuring spoon or even the wrong end of a regular spoon to scoop a little pepper out of the container directly and add it to your food -- less sprinkling/shaking , less irritant in the air .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
<URL> , but even long after that , they 're still safe to consume . They just might change colour or flavour . If your tea has an expiration date then it 's just for best quality , not safety . I 've personally found tea bags sitting at the back of the pantry that were more than 3 years old , the packaging had even started to fade , and the tea was still fine . I just had to steep it for a little longer .
Note that wheat is a type of grass , and is technically a grain . Grains without gluten Not all grains have gluten -- only those closely related to wheat do . Grains which do not have gluten include : Corn ( maize ) and its variants or derivatives such as cornmeal , polenta , hominy , or masa Rice ( all varieties ) A note on rice : some varieties are called " glutinous " . This just sounds similar to " gluten " , but is in fact used to indicate the rice 's stickiness . Glutinous rice does not have gluten , not even as traces , its stickiness comes from a special type of starch . Millet Sorghum Oats ( although many oat products are processed in plants that may have had wheat ) Sometimes confused for grains Note that the following gluten free seeds are not grains , although sometimes they are confused for grains : Wild rice Quinoa Buckwheat ( despite the name , not a wheat nor a grain ) Amaranth Non-grains used as gluten-free starches and flours Therefore , all grain-like , starchy , or flour-type foods which are not grasses are always gluten free , including wild rice , quinoa ( despite any other issues ) , and so on . Additionally , flours or seeds based on non-grain seeds , nuts , and legumes are always gluten free , although there may be other dietary sensitivities . These include : Almonds Soy beans Peanuts Chickpeas Mesquite flour Amaranth Quinoa Wild rice Finally , starches and flours based on roots , rhizomes , and so on are gluten free , including : Potato Sweet potato ( True ) yams Tapioca Grains containing gluten The following grains are all wheat relatives , and have gluten to a greater or lesser degree : Wheat Spelt Rye Tritical Barley Kamut Note that the following are all processed wheat products or specific wheat varieties , and should be avoided to maintain gluten free diets : Farina Durum Semolina Couscous See also : <URL> <URL>
Some answers to your questions , based on my experience with wild sourdough starter in San Francisco : 70-80F is the ideal temperature range . Below that the yeast incubates very slowly ; above it , the starter will tend to ferment alcoholically . Do not leave the starter in direct sun . UV light is a powerful sterilizing agent . An organic , cold-processed ( i.e. stone milled ) flour works best , because it will retain the maximum amount of its own wild yeast on it . Cheeseboard : Collective Works likes to start with rye flour and gradually add bread flour , but they do n't give a tested reason for this . I have never heard of using fruit juice in a sourdough starter . I would be dubious about it ; you 'd be likely to end up with vinegar . Sugar is unnecessary for sourdough starters . Use purified water ; chlorine/chloramine/ozone in tap water can kill your starter . Finally , starters incorporating milk are fridge-only starters ( as opposed to flour-and-water starters , which can be kept at room temperature if split frequently ) which depend on the bacteria and lactic acid from the fermenting milk for part of their sourness . They can be effective , and actually a good choice if you live somewhere with weak/poor wild yeast . Note that you can not transform a milk sourdough into a water sourdough , and using up 2 cups of milk every 2 weeks is more expensive than 2 cups of filtered water .
Some <URL> produce pink or white seeds so yours sounds perfectly normal . I have had white seeds and they are as delicious as the red ones . Go for it .
The primary coloring agents in a traditional black Russian loaf are molasses and dark rye flour .
As long as they are n't spoiled they 'll be fine for a crumble/crisp/cobbler . You 'll want to have someone else taste them to make sure first . They may need less sugar and less or no precooking . If they are really , really mushy then you might want to add some firmer plums or other fruit to give some texture .
Bamboo is n't a tree , it 's a grass ;) A bamboo shoot is just the budding new bamboo that 's harvested before it grows and becomes hard and stringy . Bamboo shoots are generally available in 2 forms , fresh and canned . Fresh ones are sold whole and generally used in stir fries . Canned bamboo shoots are precooked and packed in water . You can find canned bamboo shoots sold whole , shredded , or sliced . For hot and sour soup ( which I assume you 're making ) you 'll probably want the shredded ones . There are also jarred bamboo shoots . You probably do n't want these as they are often fermented and add different seasonings to the shoots . I 'm not sure where you are so I do n't know how available they would be , but you can generally find canned ones in the asian section of major supermarkets . Fresh ones are a little harder to come by and I believe only seasonal
Sardines are canned , which means the high heat of a pressure canner . That is what softens the bones . If you are wanting softer bones for other kinds of fish , you can either cook them using a pressure cooker or can them . However , this will only work for smaller fish that have smaller bones . If your main concern is that you will swallow a bone and choke , then buy your fish as fillets only . Most fish fillets have no bones at all . The pin bones that are in salmon fillets can be removed with needle nose pliers , and are so small that you could n't choke on them if you tried .
I also googled it and it seems that sweet white or green grapes are , indeed , probably the closest answer . Since it is a fruit salad , you may want to choose whichever of the grapes is sweetest rather than choosing by color . <URL> says that it is a white wine grape and can be called by the following names : Hunter Riesling ( Australia ) Blanc Doux / Chevrier / <URL> ( France ) Boal / Wyndruif ( South Africa ) Green Grape ( United Kingdom ) <URL> ( United States ) The wikipedia link for Sémillon describes that as a sweet , golden grape . This <URL> from 1890 about what people in NY fruit markets were calling Malaga grapes also indicates that it is a " white or pinkish white " grape , and not the true Malaga grapes , which that article claims were too delicate to ship .
The most important thing you can do is buy quality beef . You can throw a USDA Select steak on a 700 degree charcoal grill , cook it perfectly , and it 'll still be tough and not at all what you 'd get at a fine steakhouse . In the USA there are three grades of beef available to a consumer : Select , Choice , and Prime . There are lesser grades but they go to fast food joints , prisons , military personnel , and miscellaneous other weird uses . In most american supermarkets you will find only select , period . This is an " average " steak . It 's typically devoid of marbling , and results in a rather flavorless tough steak . To find choice steaks you have to go to a higher end supermarket , e.g. Whole Foods You will pay significantly more for a choice steak , but the difference is marked . The marbling will result in a tenderer steak due to the internal fat melting and tenderizing the steak . Finally , prime cuts . These are very hard to come by in any supermarket unless you live in a bigger city . You typically have to go to a specialty shop or butcher for these . Less than 2 % of all beef is classified as prime . On top of this , restaurants get first pick . So even if you do buy a great prime steak , you are likely getting the lower end of the prime spectrum . However , the difference is amazing . The marbling is more intense , more evenly distributed and when cooked properly results in a steak that melts under your knife . Another one-up a fine steakhouse has on you is they age their beef . Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Unfortunately , you ca n't dry age a steak in your home . There are some refrigerator aging processes that you 'll find on this site and others , but they are n't a true comparison . Another variation that has become more popular is grass-fed beef . This has become a recent fad , at least in the USA . Cattle are traditionally fed corn which makes them fatter and " juicier " , but it also leaves the meat tasting very bland . Likely , if you live in the USA , every steak you 've ever had was corn-fed . Grass-fed beef on the other hand is fed predominantly grass , they 're allowed to graze as cows should . This is good for the cows , because they do n't actually eat corn . A cow is made to eat grass . Corn is rather harsh on their digestive system , but they are given no other choice . In the wild a cow would never eat corn . The end result is a very different flavored steak . Grass-fed beef has a much richer , meatier flavor . However , it 's also tougher than corn-fed beef . For this reason a steak you will be served in a fine steakhouse is likely not to be grass-fed unless it is specifically designated as such . With all that out of the way I suggest doing what I do . When I feel like an amazing home cooked steak , I 'll splurge on a nice choice ribeye , dip it in a mixture of melted clarified butter and oil , season liberally with salt and pepper , and pan fry it .
end question
start question
Cranberry Beans , probably any beans ; medium-term storage options ?
My recommendation would be to shell and wash the beans , blanch for 3-4 minutes then quickly plunge in an ice bath , drain and pat dry , and seal in a freezer bag ( squeezing out as much excess air as possible ) . I have done this with fresh green beans by cutting into 1-inch pieces and they lasted 3 months in the freezer with no problem . I realize cranberry beans are quite different , but I think the same method would apply and work well . I would think the cranberry beans would be less temperamental than regular green beans . As an aside , I have similar plans and this is how I am going to try to store them long-term .
This is going to be a bit of a Zen answer ( as usual for me ) . I would venture that it does n't matter . Normally , when you 're making a bean stew or a chili bean casserole , you wo n't be discarding the liquid anyway . When you 're eating the final dish , it does n't matter to you if the protein is in the bean or the liquid , as you 're eating them both . It has , however , been my experience with white beans and chickpeas , that if you cook them more slowly , the water gets gloopier ( higher viscosity ) , which means that proteins have moved from bean to water .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
I 'd seriously doubt it going bad in 5 days if your fridge is set to a proper temperature and it was prepared with some semblance of proper sanitation . A vat of the stuff taken out of the fridge for serving 4 times , yes . An individual serving stored in the fridge the whole time , I doubt . The pasta texture will get weird from freezing/thawing . Should not actually affect the flavor if it 's properly sealed . You may or may not find the texture change acceptable . Your wife may or may not agree with you . As usual , experimentation will be your best guide as to whether you find it acceptable or not , so freeze one and do n't freeze one and compare the two when you eat them .
Adding fruit will change the ratio of dry to liquid , so it may require more flour . It would also add some sweetness , so you may want to reduce the sugar a tad . But citrus fruits in particular are acidic , which might affect the leavening . I suspect it would depend on the type of fruit and how it 's prepared .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
This is another case for anthocyanins , the same compound that causes garlic and ginger to turn blue . Anthocyanins are pH sensitive , only appearing blue or purple when in the presence of acidity . As you cook the beans , the cells begin to rupture and lose water , which causes the acid around the anthocyanins to be diluted . As this happens , they lose their color allowing the green chlorophyll ( which was always present ) to show through . <URL>
After that long , the beans are almost certainly stale . While it 's true that <URL> , four to ten years is very long time to age coffee and the opinions on aged coffee seem to be mixed at best . I say toss 'em , although you could compost them or even use them for arts and crafts , I would n't recommend them for human consumption . It 's doubtful that anyone would be harmed , seeing as <URL> and that would keep any ' ick ' from developing , it probably would n't be a very enjoyable cup of coffee .
Put the meat in a sealed plastic bag , place in a bowl in the sink , fill with cold tapwater , then set the tap running in a thin stream with the water overflowing the sides of the bowl . The moving water will safely thaw the meat through convection . Make sure you get as much air out of the plastic bag as you can . You might need to put some weight on it in the bowl to keep it submerged in the water .
Extra-Rare : 125F ( 52C ) Rare : 135F ( 57C ) Medium-Rare : 145F ( 63C ) Medium : 160F ( 71C ) Well-Done : 170F ( 77C ) Note : Extra-Rare and Rare are not recommended by USDA
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
Actually they recently came up with <URL> for civet coffee . Apparently a great deal of supposedly authentic stuff never actually traveled through the bowels of a cat . According to the <URL> , the levels of citric acid , malic acid , and the inositol/pyroglutamic acid are so much higher in kopi luwak that their ratios can be used to validate mixes with other beans where the proportion of kopi luwak is 50 % or greater .
You do n't need a brand for brewed chocolate . You just take cocoa powder ( which is ground cocoa beans minus most of their fat ) and put it into boiling water . You do n't even need to strain . But I prefer to make mine with milk ( btw , I sometimes brew coffee in milk too ) . Solid candy from coffee is something else . What you call " coffee butter " is , in fact , coffee oil at room temperature . I ca n't find information about the breakdown of the coffee beans , but I am not sure if they have the starch content of cocoa beans ( which helps hold a chocolate bar together ) . Add to this the potential for a heart attack inducing amount of caffeine per bar of caffeeolate and you see why this is n't commonplace . I guess that the industry today would find ways around these problems . You can hydrogenize the oil ( although I do n't think it would attain the smooth texture of tempered chocolate , chocolate butter has some very special crystallization properties which allow a chocolate bar to have a silky but hard texture . It will be just grainy ) and you can decaffeinate the whole thing , and then mix it with some starch to thicken it , and as much sugar as there is in milk chocolate to counter the higher bitterness of coffee . But this will be as distant from real rich-flavoured coffee as 39 cent discounter chocolate bars are from real chocolate . There wo n't be an equivalent of premium dark chocolate ( which is the one that tastes of cocoa beans instead of sugar ) . If you love coffee so much that you want to try a coffeeolate bar , you are better off making coffee flavoured chocolate . If you want the least taste mix , start with a white chocolate bar . The easiest way would be to melt it and mix in a very small amount of cream with lots of instant coffee solved into it , but the taste will be bound by the instant coffee quality . The other way would be to brew the coffee powder in cream , very concentrated ( more than an espresso ) and add it to the melted chocolate . You 'll have to work at chocolate candy making temperatures ( 30 ° C to 32 ° C ) , if you overheat , you 'll have to retemper the chocolate .
I do n't know that there are studies on using different kinds of kelp with beans , but I have used both kombu strips and kelp granules interchangeably when cooking beans . The results seem to be the same either way .
Combination new technology and an excuse to charge more . It seems to be a ' value added ' feature driven by new technology in processing harvested onions and the ' convenience ' of not having to peel the Onion . According to <URL> this is a growing market . As others have noted sometimes Organic means an excuse to charge more . Peeled onion aids that front .
After spending more time on search engines and thanks to the comment from belisarius ... Medium refers to the thickness level of the final sauce , and is controlled by the ratio of roux ( butter/flour ) to milk . For 1 cup of milk : thin = 1 tablespoon each flour/butter medium = 2 tablespoons each flour/butter ( a " standard " bechamel ) thick = 3 tablespoons each flour/butter Sources : <URL> , <URL>
In fact , although the risk is low , the <URL> does recommend soaking in the refrigerator , or using the quick soak method as opposed to an overnight room temperature soak : To be on the safe side , it would be advisable to use the quick soak method : Bring water and beans to a boil , cover and boil for 2 minutes . Remove from heat and let stand 1 hour . Drain and further cook . Similarly , the <URL> recommends ( emphasis added ) : A 12-hour soak in cold water before cooking helps hydrate the beans and considerably shortens cooking time . Ideally , beans should be put to soak the night before they are to be prepared and be kept in a cool place , or in the refrigerator , to avoid any fermentation taking place . Before soaking , wash them several times in cold water and remove any damaged or split beans . Discard any particles floating in the soaking water , such as small insects from the harvest , specks of dirt or other contaminants .
According to <URL> , which is one of the few references I could find : They are essentially fully cooked beans that have then been dehydrated for long term storage . Therefore , they will " cook " again quickly as they are already cooked , and are essentially just being rehydrated . If you listen to the video ( it is mostly narration , and a few still pictures , and are very , very , very patient in listening ) , the narrator will describe how she creates them which comes down to : Pre-soak the beans Pressure cook them Dehydrate them Note that the first two steps are probably not that critical -- you could cook the beans by whichever method you prefer .
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
end question
start question
How to make stronger colors in three part pannacotta ?
All of these are natural colorants but also impart a bit of flavor with them . For the raspberry layer you could use a tiny amount of beet juice to really kick the red . For yellow colors you have a few options . Saffron can work really well though I 'm not sure what mango/lime/saffron tastes like . Another organic single ingredient is Achiote , which has an extremely mild sweet flavor . It 's used for coloring mac and cheese and most processed cheese . Hope these ideas help .
None of the answers so far mention collagen -- specifically , using a stock made from roasted and cracked poultry bones . You do n't have to roast the bones , but you do need to crack them -- use a large , heavy knife or cleaver ( not a chinese vegetable cleaver , you 'll screw up the edge ) to chop the bones up into about 2 " to 3 " pieces ( 5 to 7cm ) . Put them in cold water , and slowly bring it up to a simmer , and just leave it simmering for a few hours . You can add vegetables , too , but you 'll want to pitch them , as they 'll have been overcooked by the time the simmering 's done . Then strain everything , and use that as the base of your soup . If your refrigerate stock that has enough collagen in it , it 'll set up like jello , and hold its own shape . Starches can work , but they 're not ideal for soup -- flour ( unless cooked as a roux ) leaves a raw flour taste and cloudy soup ; tapioca leaves little granules in there ; corn starch will break down if you cook it too long .
Notice how dogs enjoy gnawing on bones ? Ever been to a restaurant where they serve bone marrow ? Boiling bones in water draws flavor out of them . Most canned broth and stock you buy -- beef stock , chicken stock , etc -- is just this -- water boiled with bones for hours . Most literature I 've read suggests using raw bones , but some recipes call for roasted bones -- the ones I 've seen most often involve roasted veal bones . I 've also made stock from roasted chicken bones . The stock does still take on flavor . It 's easier to get good flavor from unused bones , though . Additionally , I 've found another pitfall . I 've tried to make stock from the leftover bones of bbq 'd ribs . This was not a good idea . The broth had a savory flavor , as intended . Unfortunately it also had the background taste of bbq sauce . Now , when I do make stocks , I 'd consider using leftover bones , but there have to be enough bones leftover ( otherwise I get very little stock for my time or it 's weak on flavor ) the bones ca n't be " tainted " by other flavors ( like bbq sauce ) To answer your original question , try this : start with a pot of plain water put about 4 lb of bones in per gallon of water while it 's still cold , add ~ 1 tsp of vinegar per gallon of water Once the water comes to a boil , lower the heat so that it 's just simmering this keeps the stock from getting cloudy/white ( which does n't taste bad , just looks worse ) leave boiling for about 6-8 hours , minimum . Longer is fine , but you wo n't get too much more at this point . turn off heat , allow stock to cool fully , strain it for the bones , refrigerate you can speed up this step by putting the pot in a sink full of cool water do NOT put a hot pot in your fridge . It will heat up the fridge significantly and just make the food in there go bad . Use this to make soups make sauces ( reduce it first ) as a substitute for water in savory dish preparations ( i.e. make rice with stock instead of water . Be creative here ) The main benefits here are flavor and nutrients , but I just do it for the flavor . Cutting bones up does improve the extraction process , but if the marrow is exposed already ( most beef/veal bones will be ) you 're fine . If you save old bones , freeze them until you have enough . Do n't bother trying to make stock with the bones from one chicken .
The only trick I know of is to use a <URL> -- some will turn to complete mush , while others stay firm . Unfortunately , unlike potatoes , they do n't tend to be marked at the super market as to which variety they are . Now , I 'm not familiar with Bramley , but from what I 've found , it 's compared to Granny Smith , which tends to hold up well in pies . I 'd recommend blind baking your crust , if you are n't already , so the filling is n't in there as long , and possibly going with a thicker slice of apple when you 're cooking , in hopes they wo n't break down as quickly . update : in checking <URL> , there 's a comment in the apple pie recipe that " briefly sautéing and poaching apples softens them slighly before the sugar , which prevents cells falling apart and preserves texture , is added "
You have a few options to lower their explosiveness : Pierce the skin , like you do <URL> . Lower your frying temperature can help a bit , but you 'll probably always need to use a temperature higher than the boiling point to get any kind of crisping action . Dehydrate the liver a bit before frying . You could use a dehydrator , a low-and-slow oven bake or a low temperature , low oil sauté to get them to release their juices ( like you do for browning some mushrooms ) . I do n't know which of these will work best for liver , but naturally you 'll lose a little bit of the final juiciness . You mention the splash guard , which I ca n't recommend enough . These numbers are cheap and easy to find . <URL> But you can also protect your hands directly . I recommend something articulated , like this pair of silicon mold Storm Trooper styled oven mitts from Think Geek : <URL> <URL>
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
If you are handy with electrics and electronics , linking a heating element to a PID controller is probably your best bet for stability . This will give you quite stable temperatures . You can find many sets of instructions by googling <URL> , which is a very similar application , although higher temperature ranges are usually the goal .
I am accustomed to the boil-and-drain method of cooking rice . If you like your rice very soft/mushy , you can even cook rice 3.5:1 and wait until all water has evaporated on moderate-to-low heat ( this is how my grandma always does it ) . The texture is different from the aldente 2:1 rice common in the USA , but I think the preference is a matter of habit . It is perfectly possible to boil and then drain rice , although 6:1 is an uncommonly high ratio of water to rice . Obviously , Consumer Reports are more concerned with leeching contaminants out of the rice than with culinary aspects such as convenience and taste . Still , the rice cooking method exists , and there is no culinary objection against it except that some people do n't like the resulting soft texture . The boil-and-drain method ( actually simmer-and-drain ) is often combined with first frying the rice in oil until translucent , as for pilaf , but it is not technically required . You can just simmer in salted water until it has reached the desired consistency ( depending on the type of rice you used , it will be somewhere on the spectrum between soft separate grains and a sticky soft mass where you have trouble separating the grains ) , then remove from the heat and drain . Add your aroma after the draining , as you do n't want to throw it out with the water .
The proportions on everything look correct ( including the milk ! ) EXCEPT that is a very small amount of butter for 3C flour . There is also no sugar in that recipe -- and even a very small amount of sugar will change the texture of the dough . I personally would triple the amount of butter , add 2-3T sugar , and then re-try the recipe . VERY cold butter will also help with a lighter finished baked scone . As for the comment that the oven time is too hot and long -- the temperature is good -- but I would think the baking time would fall more in the range of 15-20 minutes , depending upon whether you are baking from frozen dough or freshly made scone dough . A hot oven , as opposed to a moderate oven ( 350 degrees F -- normal for cookies and cakes ) is recommended for biscuits and scones . Since all ovens bake differently , rely less on the actual time and more on how the scone looks -- it should be lightly golden on top and not doughy in appearance in the center . A cake tester can be used to be certain that the center is fully baked . good luck -- it always seems to take a little effort to find the scone recipe that you think is perfect !!
Stock is made from bones only and broth is the liquid that meat has been simmered in . A well made stock should be clear without particles or cloudiness . Broth will usually be somewhat cloudy due to containing more dissolved proteins . Bones for lamb stock ( and any brown stock - veal can be made white or brown but lamb is usually brown ) are typically first roasted . The roasting will melt fat that may still be intact . After roasting bones for stocks such as lamb , veal , and duck you would then remove the bones from the roasting pan and roast the vegetables . You can use the residual fat for coating the vegetables prior to roasting . ( Just put vegetables in roasting pan and toss to coat with the fat ) . Fat from the bones will congeal on the top once the stock is chilled and you can then easily remove it . I would n't add or purposely leave chunks of fat attached to the bone as you just have to remove it later but what is there is n't a problem .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
From <URL> : When you clean the fish , remove the skin and any dark-colored flesh . This part of the fish is especially strong tasting and somewhat oily . Check out these fish recipes to learn to cook bluefish . Also see <URL> for advices on improving the flavor ( e.g. soak it in milk ) .
Making maraschino cherries is a bit involved ... basically , you brine them and then flavor them . To keep them for a long time , you 'll also need to can them . <URL> a great recipe for making the cherries , and <URL> instructions for canning . The canning instructions are specifically for cherry topping , but you would use the same boiling-water canner process for maraschino cherries in their syrup . To pit the cherries , I 'd advise purchasing a cherry pitter ( yes , there 's actually a device for this ) if you 're going to be doing this very much .
I went ahead and tried it . I used hard-boiled yolks , as a soft and slimy one would be not really different from making the mayo in a waterbath . It turned out to be incredibly fickle . The first try , only yolk and oil , with immersion blender , split immediately and never recovered . The second try was supposed to incorporate the bad emulsion . I first made a paste from the yolk with a few milliliters of lemon juice and water , then started adding the bad emulsion , beating with a mixer this time . I got a thick suspension of yolk particles in oil , but it was n't emulsified . The third try worked at first . Again , I started with yolk and water and lemon juice , and then added the oil in really tiny amounts , half a teaspoonful at once . I used the mixer again . It emulsified , but was runny . I kept adding oil , and it was a nice emulsion , but very soft , runnier than soft peaks , like a batter . And then , one of the teaspoons of oil broke the emulsion completely :( I do n't know how the emulsion in the picture is made , maybe the sources I have heard of forget to mention that the yolk should n't be hard boiled ( mine was longer boiled than the one in the forum picture ) . If this is the case , then obviously there is nothing unusual happening here - the yolk retains some of its emulsifying power even after boiling ( I suppose it is the lecithine ) , but many of the substances which are actively helping the emulsion when heated around 70 ° C do n't work any more . So , working with cooked yolks is possible , but much harder than the normal heated raw yolks . Which makes me think that there is no reason to try further to use cooked yolks . I ca n't comment on taste , did n't try the emulsion before it split . After splitting , the yolk-containing oil is still usable as a bread dip , but does n't taste well enough to be made on purpose .
Preface : I 'm not a big fan of fruit-flavored stuff ( I like fresh fruit by itself , just not in stuff ... ) so I ca n't speak to these from personal experience . For fresh fruit , puree in a blender or similar . Moist fruits can probably be pureed in their own juices ; otherwise , you 'll need to add some . You 'll probably want to add some sugar , but offset this by reducing the sugar you add to the ice cream mix . ( Seeds might be an issue too - get seedless if possible . ) As Manako suggested , you can also cook it down and then puree , though this will result in a wetter mixture than with their natural juices alone . This will also present a different flavor profile from the fresh fruit , so experiment to find what you like . Another possibility would be to cook out some of the water from your puree . In any case , you 'll want to reduce the liquid ingredients of your normal recipe by roughly the same amount as the pureed fruit you 're adding . In light of the previous item , you 'll probably want to use a higher-fat cream than normal , since the fruit will add a lot of water . Unlike " chunky " additions , you do n't really care that the ice cream should be at a thick consistency before you add them . ( for suspension ) I 'd just add it directly to the mix before you start churning .
My kids love a similar recipe , but they also like them softer . What I do is reducing the second baking time by half . Be aware that the shelf life of the biscotti is also reduced ! ... Not a problem in my case since they do n't survive more than two days ... Edit <URL> Though modern biscotti are associated with the Tuscan region of Italy , the popular Italian cookie traces its origins to Roman times . The word biscotto derives from " bis , " Latin for twice , and " coctum " or baked ( which became " cotto , " or cooked ) . The Roman biscotti were more about convenience food for travelers rather than a pleasurable treat for leisurely diners . Unleavened , finger-shaped wafers were baked first to cook them , then a second time to completely dry them out , making them durable for travel and nourishment for the long journeys -- Pliny boasted that they would be edible for centuries . Biscotti were a staple of the diet of the Roman Legions . After the fall of the Roman Empire in 455 C.E , the country was repeatedly sacked by the Visigoths , the Vandals and others . The people did their best to survive ; there was no culinary development . But with the Renaissance , cuisine also flowered . Biscotti re-emerged in Tuscany , credited to a Tuscan baker who served them with the local sweet wine . Their dry , crunchy texture was deemed to be the perfect medium to soak up the wine ( and how much more flavorful than dunking a donut in coffee ! ) . Centuries later , many still agree that dipping biscotti into Vin Santo is a perfect way to end a meal , or to while away an hour at a café .
Yeah , maybe you just had some bitter turnips . It sounds like you did all the right things to hide the bitterness . If you want to try a different cooking method , I tend to like turnip boiled and mashed . If the turnip is old ( and likely bitter ) you can add an apple . I 've also read that you can stir in baking soda after the turnips have boiled to remove the bitterness . You would then need to rinse thoroughly . I 've never tried this however .
end question
start question
What do I do with a kohlrabi ?
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
My version of this ( <URL> ) actually came with a set of instructions . It 's not meant to be used for cooking , only for serving . Place the pan in a hot oven for about 30 mins to heat it up ( while you 're cooking ) , then put your fajitas on it to bring to the table . The cast iron will retain heat for a long time and keep anything you serve on it sizzling hot . A cast iron pan would be a great way to cook fajitas , but the shallow sides and strange shape of the " sizzler " pan make it impractical to really cook on . The same instruction book also recommends using another cast iron pan ( two , actually ) to cook the fajitas . If you want to use it for something other than fajitas , it would work just fine as a small griddle . You could probably cook pancakes , a strip steak , or chicken breast on it , but nothing that requires any stirring .
The quickest way to get rid of leftover wine is to think of it as flavoured water . In many if not most recipes that call for water - especially stovetop recipes like sauces and stews - you can simply substitute wine for the water or stock that the recipe normally calls for . We actually had a similar question recently : <URL> and I 'd recommend you take a look at that , as many of the points there apply equally well to wine . Probably the best summation was in <URL> : I 'd consider stock to be just another flavorful liquid ( thanks Alton Brown ) , to be usable in exchange for others like wine , etc. . You need to be conscious of the gelatin aspect and mindful that some substitutions will be more successful than others , flavor-wise , but it 's always worth considering if stock might be a good substitute for any other flavorful liquid . Just swap the terms " stock " and " wine " and you 're good to go . Even though wine does n't contain any gelatin , you actually do need to be mindful of the gelatin aspect when substituting wine for stock , because you might have the opposite problem if the liquid is supposed to thicken . Similarly to stock , I also would n't recommend using wine in anything that you plan to refrigerate or freeze for a long period , for a different reason obviously - because it can go sour over time . So try to only use it in recipes that will be consumed in the near future . Other than that , just experiment ; whenever you 're making a savoury recipe that calls for water or stock , try using some wine instead . You 'd be surprised at how much character it can add to otherwise simple dishes . Some examples of places where you can replace some other liquid with wine : Rice or risotto Soups and sauces Deglazing a pan ( for a pan sauce ) Salad dressings ( this is an especially good use for sour/fermented wine ) Marinades Poaching liquids ( for eggs , chicken , etc. ) There really are no rules , and any time you find yourself tossing plain water into a pot or bowl , you should keep in mind that you are potentially missing an opportunity to add flavour ( which a good wine will add plenty of ) .
If you want your Kombucha be strong , consistent , and to taste like a commercial one , then you need to use the same SCOBY contained in a commercial kombucha . Remember , making Kombucha , just like brewing wine , mead , or beer , is nothing more than glorified yeast herding . You give the SCOBY what it wants to eat , and it does the rest . It 's really that simple . You just need the same starter as a commercial company . Now , many companies spend years perfecting their strains of yeast/bacteria , and trying to raise your own or getting a starter from " some guy " often just wo n't compare because it is either weak , or it has n't been fed properly , it contains too much acetalbacter , etc. . So , how do you do it ? You use the SCOBY that commercial kombucha makers provide you in the bottle and propagate it . In homebrewing we use a similar procedure called " washing yeast , " where you take a commercial beer , drink the majority , and then use the dregs of yeast at the bottom to ferment your own beer . Start with an unpasteurized , raw commercial bottle of Kombucha that you like that has not been sorbated or sulfited . Check the bottle for wisps of sediment in the bottle , indicating that it contains some mother , the more the better . Then , you prepare food ( black tea and sugar ) , and mix the two . Cover with some cloth , store in a warm ( I would guess at 65-70 degrees F based on my experience brewing wine/beer and alsoo purposely making vinegar ) and dark place , and let the mother start to grow . It 'll take 2-3 feedings before you have a strong mother , but it should form . If it does n't ? Grab another bottle of kombucha and try again . This link explains the process in better detail . <URL> Once you have the mother , just continue feeding and do whatever you can not to break the cycle of feedings so it does n't get stressed . You are dealing with living things , and so they will have a tendency to fall into cycles . If you break the cycles , they 'll get stressed .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
I actually debated asking a similar question last month , as I managed to set mine on fire the day after Christmas , and based on the new one I got , differences I 've noticed ( mostly features I miss from the old one ; also a few things I 've noticed at my neighbors and mom 's house . Insulated top ; If you frequently run out of space in your kitchen , and need to keep stuff on top of the toaster oven , it comes in handy . ( and some allow the top to open up so you can expose the top so it could be a bread or plate warmer ) Is the rack connected to the door so , when you open the door , the rack pushes out a couple of inches , so you do n't have to reach in to extract things and risk burning yourself ? ( okay , I admit , there 's a few drawbacks to this ; it means the rack is n't easily removable to be cleaned or if you need to pull it all the way out because there 's something that got pushed to the back , and the next item ) Multiple racks or rack heights . The different positions might be useful for the broiler , but the multiple racks really are n't that useful ; things wo n't toast right when they 're blocked by another level , and they do n't tend to cook evenly when in oven mode , either . ( maybe if it 's a convection ... it 's my neighbor 's toaster oven , so I have n't played enough with it ) If you leave both racks in there , then you 've barely got any space in between to grab things out , so you 're risking burning yourself . ( and well , they do n't have that last feature where the rack pops out when you open the door ) Location of the controls ; some are on the side , some are on the bottom . Controls on the bottom are more prone to getting damaged by things getting pushed around on the counter , but I prefer it for a few reasons -- ( 1 ) the toaster oven 's narrower , as there 's no wasted space to the side ; ( 2 ) the door opens higher up ; this means you can have a large plate on the counter without it getting in the way when you want to open the toaster . Convection ; some have it , some do n't . Broiler ; not all can do broil ( top element ) only . Depth of the unit ; some of them bump out so they can fit a round pizza ; if they also have a little bracket so you do n't accidentally push it up against the wall , there 's hardly any space left on the counter . How exposed the elements are ; some of the newer ones have grills over the elements , I have n't had mine long enough to see if that 'll protect it from melted cheese dripping on 'em , which I think was the cause of my toaster fire . Turn-dial vs. brown-ness setting . I do n't know how to explain this one . All of the toaster ovens in the stores I looked in have a dial , where you have to turn the dial past 10 min , then back to the little reference marks for the darkness that you like your toast ; My old one just had a setting at the bottom , you set it to toast , and hit the button . If you wanted to shut it off , you opened the door . Of course , with this style , there was n't a timer on the oven , either . Turn-off-via opening the door : Some do , some stay on . I 'm used to it , but of course , if that 's the only way to shut it off , that also means you have to open the door to shut it off when there 's a fire inside , which means better airflow . ( or unplug it , but when the plug 's on the other side of the toaster , that one 's not a great option , either ) . Electronic controls : I personally view it as something else to break , but they might be able to do something special ; I 've never bought one , myself . Cord length ; only really a problem when you 've got an old kitchen that does n't have a plug every 12 " or whatever the new standards seem to be ; but you really do n't want to plug a toaster into a power strip if you can help it , so if you know you 're going to need to run it 3 ' down the counter , check the cord length . ( and which side it attaches , just in case you 're then going in the wrong direction with it ) Crumb tray . I hear other people use 'em . They 're supposedly important so you do n't catch the thing on fire . Accessories . Some come with a little tray to use ; some of them also have a little insert to turn it into a broiler pan ( so you lift it out of the pan a little bit , so it wo n't stew in whatever drips off ) . And I understand that you need some air flow around the pan , but in my opinion , something 's wrong when the tray that comes with the toaster is 1/2 the area of the rack ; it 's like they were n't even trying , they just tossed in a tray from some other oven . Others come with a little tool so you can pull the rack out so you do n't burn yourself ( which then gets lost or broken and thus sucks ) Size . If you tend to make toast for lots of people at a time , then some of the larger toasters might be worth it ; If you 're single , the 6 or 8 slices of bread at the same time ( but not the size of bread you like ; you can only fit two of those ) toasters might be a bit overkill ) And they now seem to measure themselves by ' size of a pizza I can fit ' , which makes no sense to me , as everyone knows the correct way to size toaster
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
Do n't spray with water with a standard squirt bottle . Get an <URL> . It 's pressurized , so you get an almost aerosol-fine mist , which prevents the kernels from getting soggy . It also adds flavor , in addition to the powdered seasonings you add with it . Or you could use an infused oil and skip the powdered seasoning altogether .
make waffles ! that 's what we do with ours , besides bread . sourdough waffles with syrup have this great sweet/sour balance going on that is really wonderful .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
You could use them , together with the core , to make apple-glaze ( for your pie ) . Cover everything with water , simmer about 30 min , strain , simmer until you reach the desired density .
Figs are <URL> that is , they will continue to ripen after being picked from the tree ( because they will start releasing ehtylene ) . However , contrary to other climateric fruits ( such as bananas ) this only works if the fruit is picked in the later stage of its developement . From : <URL> - Owino et al. , Plant Physiol Biochem . - 2006 The fig is a climacteric fruit and treatment with ethylene in the later part of stage II stimulates growth , accelerates the onset of the rise in respiration , induces ethylene production and promotes ripening . A typical respiration climacteric is not displayed by fruit harvested before the natural initiation of ripening on the tree . However fruit in which ripening had been initiated on the tree gave a normal climacteric rise and ripened fully after detachment from the tree . Thus in many aspects the fig behaves as a typical climacteric fruit , but as a result of its growth pattern , the ethylene production preceding ripening occur during a phase of active cell expansion . What many people suggest , is to put some olive oil on the eye of the fig . I have never done it , but apparently you only need a very small amount around the eye to hasten ripening . Here are two links to forums explaining this fig-oiling technique <URL> , <URL> Apparently this will speed up a lot the ripening of the fruits ( although some people seem to report they are less sweet ) . This works because olive oil will increase the release of ethylene from figs . From the same paper I cited above : It has been known since the 3rd Century BC that a drop of olive oil applied to the ostiole ( a process termed as Oleification ) of the fig fruit stimulates growth and leads to uniform ripening of fruits . The application of several vegetable oils such as rape seed oil , sesame oil , soybean oil , camellia oil and linseed oil also had similar effects as the olive oil whereas animal oil stimulated fruit ripening but the effect was less than that of the vegetable oils . It was also observed that refined olive oil was more effective in accelerating maturation of the fig fruit as compared to unrefined olive oil or other vegetable oils . [ ... ] A transient induction of ethylene was observed in fruit treated with olive oil , with ethylene production increasing a day after treatment and later declining
I can get soy beans in two varieties here : As dried beans and as edamame . Edamame is a particular type of soybean that is harvested when it is still young . The pods are cooked ( usually boiled or steamed ) and then served with salt . The beans are popped from the pod and eaten . The pod is discarded . Edamame is sweet and a little grassy because it is young . Dried soy beans can be cooked like any other bean . Their hulls tend to come free and have an unpleasant texture so it is nice to skim most of them off . The flavor is good but not unique . It tastes like a normal white bean . The raw beans have a very strong " beany " flavor but cooked beans should not . Soymilk is made from dried soybeans . The beans or the milk are cooked to remove the very strong beany flavor . The finished milk does have a hint of sweetness and bean but not strong at all . Tofu , made from soymilk , tastes the same as the milk . Besides being sweet and a little beany , it can be a little nutty tasting . It can get chalky if it is n't fresh . All of these soybean preparations are very bland . They tastes fresh and clean but there should n't be any overly strong flavors . Strong flavors in these products are often a sign that the product is past its prime . Some soybean preparations ferment the beans . These have a wide range of flavors and textures .
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
We have been eating turkey burgers for years . The super secret is to not let them dry out while cooling . I take a pound of ground turkey , mixed 2 tablespoons of Worcestershire sauce , 1/2 teaspoon salt , 2 shakes garlic powder and 1/2 teaspoon of water . Then mix thoroughly by hand . After patty-ing them to 1/4 inch thick patties , I grill for about 5-6 minutes per side , turning a quarter turn at 2-3 minutes . After removing from grill , I wrap in foil and let sit for 5-10 minutes . Voila !
This is n't a perfect test , but a magnet wo n't stick to a silver utensil whereas it will stick to most other metal utensils ( i.e. , stainless steel ) .
In examining sponge cake recipes , I 've noticed that some call for adding the melted butter with the flour . Some call for adding it afterwards . The important thing is to fold in that butter in a way that preserves the network of bubbles that was created while whipping your eggs ( unsure if your recipe called for whipping whole eggs with sugar or yolks with sugar and egg whites separately , but both will be creating a bubble structure integral to letting your cake rise ) . <URL> mentions that folding in flour helps to preserve that network ( as long as you do n't overhandle ) . If you over handle while folding - and you may have tipped it over the line when adding butter - you will destroy that bubble network and your cake wo n't rise as you 'd like . It 's also possible to under-handle , which will result in only a thin layer of sponge on top with a thick buttery cake underneath .
end question
start question
What is Spaetzle ? How is it cooked ?
Spaetzle is basically a noodle . Throw together egg , flour and salt ( maybe some water to thin it out ) and force it through a mold . Anything with holes can be used as a mold ( for instance , I 've used my old metal colander and that would work fine ) . Once the dough is formed into little pieces ( it does n't usually hold together for long threads ) , put it in boiling water to cook for a few minutes and dress it to eat however you desire . Note : some people say Spaetzle is a noodle , some say a dumpling , I have no preference , I just call it tasty !
Congee itself is just thick rice porridge . It is usually made with a combination of short-grain and ' sticky ' ( glutinous ) rice , but any kind of white rice will work . Put 3/4 cup rice ( 1/2 cup regular , 1/4 cup sticky , if you have it ) in a pot with 8 cups of water and a little salt . Bring to a boil and simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours , until it is a thick porridge . Stir now and then so it does n't stick . Many electric rice cookers have a congee setting , which makes everything really easy - just put in a measure of rice , add water up to the congee mark , turn it on and wait . There are many , many traditional toppings or additions to congee . Eileen Yin-Fei Lo said it well in her " From the Earth : Chinese Vegetarian Cooking " : " Virtually any food can be added to one 's breakfast congee in China . What you might add to it depends upon your preferences . "
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
In most cases , curdling occurs because proteins in the sauce are denatured and bind up with each other forming clumps . In cooking , proteins are denatured by excessive heat , acid , salt , or enzymes . Heat and acid are the usual culprits for me . For example , when making a hollandaise sauce - the egg yolks are slowly cooked to allow them to set . In most recipes the lemon juice is added later . If the sauce is heated too abruptly or too high then the egg proteins will curdle . To prevent curdling you have a few options - Do n't expose the sauce to as much heat . Be careful to not overcook egg rich sauces . If possible add the protein rich ingredient later in the process - for example adding yogurt to a sauce just before serving . Heat the sauce gently . Heating too fast will also make proteins denature . Many sauces are cooked in a double boiler - not to keep the sauce from overheating but to ensure that it heats gently . Do n't expose the proteins to too much salt or acid . Dropping a couple tablespoons of lemon juice into warm milk is a recipe for paneer not sauce . Take out some insurance . Proteins bind with each other after denaturing when there are a large quantity of similar molecules all together . One solution then is to introduce a lot of dissimilar molecules that will interfere with the protein 's ability to bind to itself . Common candidates for this are starch or fat . It is difficult ( but not impossible ) to curdle the milk protein in cream based sauces with just heat because the high concentration of milk fat gets in the way . This is why reduction sauces can add cream to a very hot liquid and let it reduce . However , adding acid and heat can still be enough to curdle so be careful if your reduction sauce is very acidic . Many otherwise fragile sauce recipes will call for a little bit of corn starch as an insurance policy . In the related question that you posted - yogurt sauces are particularly susceptible to this because low-fat yogurt is very high in protein and low in fat , and starch .
<URL> , Chondrus crispus , is a species of seaweed , rich in <URL> , an emulsifier and hydrocolloid . Evidently , you can buy modern <URL> as well from brewing supply stores , for use as a kettle fining to help precipitate unwanted proteins .
Sure , but the rest of the onion gets mushy and unpalatable after they 've grown for a bit . Some people eat the sprouts ; they have a lot of protein , so they 're popular with vegans and other protein challenged groups .
It sounds like you have Fleischman 's Pizza Crust Yeast ( or a no-doubt quite similar product if from another manufacturer ) . The relevant phrase from the Fleischman marketing web site is : Pizza Crust Yeast is specially-formulated with dough relaxers that keep the dough from pulling or snapping back when shaping it . It is intended to make it easier to stretch the pizza dough into shape . The yeast itself is normal instant yeast , to the best of my knowledge -- the additives in the packet are what make it " pizza crust yeast " . Researching the additional ingredients other than yeast : Sorbitan monostearate -- According to <URL> is an emulsifier with a polar and non-polar ends : Sorbitan monostearate is used as an emulsifying agent in cake mixes , icings , baked goods , puddings , imitation whipped cream , hemorrhoid creams , and creams to treat dry skin . <URL> mentions that this helps the dough absorb the water . l-cysteine * -- is an amino acid , which is naturally occurring , and often extracted from hair or feathers . <URL> explains the science in bread dough , where it acts as a reducing agent : During mixing the gluten in the ﬂour is stretched and pulled apart so that it can be reformed during prooﬁng and baking to provide the needed strength and structure . Reducing agents act like mixing to reversibly break down gluten so that once they have been used up the gluten reforms . This mechanism is the opposite of oxidizing agents , which build up gluten . Reducing and oxidizing agent ascorbic acid * -- is of course Vitamin C , and a fairly strong acid . According to <URL> in Czeck Journal of Food Sciences , at concentrations under 0.6 % it has little effect on wheat flour , so it is unlikely to have any practical effect in a full batch of pizza dough . Its inclusion is probably ( as mentioned in <URL> ) as an anti-oxidant and preservative in the packet , rather than as an active ingredient in the bread dough . enzymes -- no doubt the particular enzymes and their ratios are proprietary to the brand you have , but according to the Wikipedia article on <URL> , they are used to increase transformation of starch into sugars to facilitate the action of the live yeast . Common enzymes used include : Amylases break down the starch in flours into simple sugars , thereby letting yeast ferment quickly . Malt is a natural source of amylase . Proteases improve extensibility of the dough by degrading some of the gluten . Lipoxygenases oxidize the flour . See also this <URL> which discusses various commercially available forms of yeast . My personal opinion is that I would not buy " pizza crust yeast , " since recipes are not designed for the presence of its dough conditioners . I would rather control my dough 's ingredients myself . However , since you have the product , why not try it using the vendor 's recipe ? I would be fascinated to hear how it performs .
Mustard is one of those simple condiments to make , and is fun to experiment with . At it 's most basic mustard is two ingredients : Mustard Seed Liquid There are endless variations from there . Mustard seed comes in white , yellow , brown and black variations . I suggest buying whole and grinding them yourself using either a mortar &amp; pestle or coffee/spice grinder . ( Do n't use a coffee grinder that you use for grinding coffee ! You 'll end up with mustard flavored coffee ) . Liquids can be water , vinegar , wine , or even beer . Using vinegar/wine will help it last longer than water or beer would . Once you 've fine ground ( of course there are coarse ground varieties too ) your mustard simply mix it with the liquid until it is the desired consistency . Additional ingredients can be added to taste . Honey , turmeric ( gives yellow mustard its color ) , sugar , etc. are all possibilities . Update : I forgot to mention that mustard needs time for the flavors to mix . This can take anywhere from a few hours to weeks . A fresher mustard tends to be hotter , but an aged mustard can often taste " better " with a slight loss of that initial heat . Refrigerated mustard will keep it 's heat longer . Also note , mustard made with water should definitely be refrigerated and consumed quicker than others .
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
TL ; DR : You should . I do n't own clay pots myself , so take this with a grain of salt . I found some information on the <URL> called Clay Cooking 101 . It has recommendations as well as an <URL> . The process apparently is called seasoning , rather than healing . Here is a short summary from the page : Seasoning Your Clay Pot Give your new clay pot love and it will love you back ! Cookware that will be used over a direct heat source on the stovetop needs to be seasoned before its first use . This strengthens the pot and prevents it from cracking . It will also make the pot more durable so it can provide you with many years of fantastic cooking . Now for the black particles in the food , I 'm not certain what that could be ; so it 's probably best to play it safe and not eat the food .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
Butchered meat is generally sterile except on its exterior . ( That does n't mean parasite - or botulism-free , but it 's a start . ) Get the best quality you can from a source you trust . Keep it at as low a temperature as possible , and do n't expose it to warm air for more than the few minutes it takes to prepare . Cut with a clean knife on a clean surface . Put it right back into the fridge at a very low temp . Salt and acid , if you use them in your sauce , will provide some anti-bacterial benefits , but this is not foolproof . People all over the world eat raw meat , but it 's best to start with small amounts and see how your system handles it . If you 're a child/pregnant/old / sick , it 's much less of a good idea .
Salting , fermenting and drying render these products safe . Always salting ( including sodium nitrite , also known as pink salt ) and always drying . This creates an inhospitable atmosphere for unsafe organisms . That would cover dried/cured meat products like prosciutto , pancetta or bacon . Most salumi are also fermented , which produces that pleasant , slightly sour taste ... and further increases safety by creating an acidic environment .
No , it is not . Traditionally it is first cured with salt to reduce the water content of the meat , then placed in a vinegar-based brine . Recipes vary a bit , but for classic <URL> 14 % salt and 7 % acetic acid are used . Additionally , today pickeled fish is stored in refrigerators ( as opposed to the 19th century ) , providing additional safety . This is sufficient to stop the growth of harmful microorganisms , including the feared <URL> .
After a bit of googling , I found <URL> which suggests that searing twice ( both before and after ) might be preferable .
The article you linked to references this dish as " Wiener Schnitzel " . That article defines it as veal -- pounded , breaded , and fried -- garnished with lemon , and served with potatoes . " Wiener " refers to its Viennese origin , and Schnitzel to the type of preparation ( pounded , breaded , and fried ) . There are many varieties of Schnitzels , made of several different meats , and with various sauces . Jaeger Schnitzel , for examples , is served with a creamy mushroom sauce . The one from Vienna is served with lemon and potatoes .
Bacon cooks to safe very quickly . Once it 's opaque it is safe to eat . Raw bacon is itself pretty low risk , provided it has been properly cured . Even if it was n't cooked through , you are unlikely to come to harm .
Sumac is commonly used a tart flavoring element in the eastern Mediterranen region . Historians believe that it was the common sour element in cooking for that area prior to domestication of lemons . It is a characteristic seasoning element in Fatoush , a Syrian bread salad . It 's not usually available in the mainstream spice section of most grocery stores . The best place to locate it is in mid-eastern markets , delis , upscale stores such as Dean &amp; Deluca or online through P <URL> or the <URL> .
They can be as young as 8 weeks , and up to a year or more . The preferred cooking method changes with age . <URL> of the ages/weights/options .
end question
start question
Which knife is best for somone just learning to cook ?
The difference between a santuko and European chef 's knife is mostly a matter of personal taste and style . However , if you live in North America , Europe , or anywhere else with a European cooking tradition , most of the resources and videos that you see to help you develop knife skills will assume you have a chef 's knife . For this reason , I suggest you start with a good basic chef 's knife . Secondly , you will want a paring knife . With these two knives , you can do 95 % of kitchen tasks very well . As you develop your skills , you can try santukos and other style blades and determine if the work for you .
Honey should be stored at 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit Honey is similar in to olive oil and should be storaged between 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit according to <URL> : Similar to olive oil , honey should be stored at a cool temperature between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit . So , it 's best to store it away from your oven or stove . Also , it should not be refrigerated . Extreme changes in temperature will spoil the flavor of honey . Looks like this confirms that you may want to keep it in a cool place and away from hot temperature where it would cause honey to degrade in quality . <URL> continues : Remember Do not store honey in a refrigerator or near a stove or oven . Store it in an air-tight container . Thus , choosing an appropriate container is an important part of the equation . <URL> has a great article germane to this topic . Refrigerating Honey In the <URL> , it talks mentions the crystallizing state of honey if it is refrigerated in no way it harms the honey at all . Restoring honey from a crystalized form I know this is not related to your question . But something you asked in the comments . Apparently , honey can be <URL> : placing it in the microwave for 20 seconds can restore it from a crystallized form . Therefore , you can store it in the refrigerator and heat it afterwards . The downside is that if stored in <URL> . Proper Storage Container Since honey has <URL> in it it is difficult for microorganisms to grow . Thus , an airtight container is of utmost importance . If moisture gets in the container it can be an ideal environment for mold and yeast to grow . Honey should be thrown out if it <URL> Long Term Storage of Honey Honey can be stored for long periods of time without any issue . Over time , <URL> .
Seasoning does not preserve food . Some foodstuffs normally used for seasoning , like salt and vinegar , can help to preserve food , but the concentration you need will make your ricotta unpalatable . Salting can preserve food , when combined with dehydration . Bacteria need a humid environment to live in . Salt is hygroscopic , it both helps dry out the food you are preserving ( usually meat ) and directly dehydrates any bacteria which come in contact with it , killing them . Even then , you want to use charcuterie salt ( a mix of NaCl and NaNO2 ) to prevent botulism , as pure table salt ( NaCl ) does n't kill Clostridum Botulinum . Trying to get ricotta preserved that way is counterproductive . Not only will it be way too salty to taste well . You will also have to dry it out to the point where neither mould nor bacteria can grow on it . Hard cheeses are durable exactly for these reasons , but dried-out ricotta is not tasty . In fact , I am not sure that " the yellow stuff " you see is " toxic " , it could just be dried-out . Still , I would n't be willing to risk eating it , even if the taste was acceptable . You could try preserving your ricotta by adding acid . To have it hold a long time in the fridge , it has to be as acidic as a typical pickle recipe . I only mention this because you say that you spice it heavily . But frankly , I ca n't imagine anybody wanting to eat ricotta that sour . The option I would choose is freezing . You already mention " the freezer " , but if you are really freezing it , then it sounds like you are thawing and refreezing the whole container . Alternatively , maybe it was a slip of the keyboard and you meant to say that you are holding it in the back of the fridge . Whatever you meant , I would suggest freezing it in portions , for example using silicone muffin moulds . Once you have frozen your ricotta ( you can add spices it first , if you prefer ) , remove it from the moulds and place it in a freezing bag . Only thaw the amount you will need for a single meal . This should work well enough , in the worst case you 'll have a layer of freezer burn to remove .
The toxin in kidney beans is destroyed by boiling for around ten minutes , which no doubt holds true for any toxin in the water as well . So there should be no problem with using the soaking water to cook the beans , provided you cook them properly .
Ceramic will - if preheated - prevent some cooling of your water , but plastic filter-holders do n't have much heat capacity so you do n't lose much with them , either . Plastic filter-holders and paper filters have the advantage of not costing much so you can have one at home , one at work , one anywhere else you want ... As with most coffee preparation , a good grinder is paramount and getting freshly roasted coffee is also extremely important .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
The two main issues with ground coffee are : The coffee losing its aroma . The aroma/flavor of coffee is quite volatile , and will evaporate very easily . The solution to this is an airtight container , with as little head room in it as possible . The coffee soaking up moisture from the air . This makes the coffee ... unpleasant . The best solution I 've found ( in a hot humid climate ) is to put it in the freezer . It is the nature of refrigeration to leech all of the moisture from the freezer compartment . In summary , the best I 've found is a small airtight box in the freezer .
If you mean cleaning in terms of getting rid of the ' beard ' , use clean pliers and a lot of elbow grease . It 's hard to pull that out . If you mean just cleaning the shells , use a stiff bristled brush and scrub . If you mean cleaning the sand from the inside of the mussels , put the live mussels in a large container full of water and cornmeal and leave overnight in the refrigerator . The mussels should flush the sand out and replace it with cornmeal ( never tried this method , but I 've heard it works well . )
Cooking time will vary greatly depending not only on the cut of fish but also the cooking method . In general , your cod will be done when it reaches an internal temperature of 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) , regardless of cooking method . Here are some times/temperatures that work for me : Sous Vide : 10 minutes or more at 56 ° C , followed by a quick broiling/grilling/blow torch . Baking ( thick fillets ) : 15 -- 20 minutes at 218 ° C ( 425 ° F ) . Baking <URL> : 15 minutes at 232 ° C ( 450 ° F ) . Deep Frying : 7 -- 8 minutes at 190 ° C ( 375 ° F ) . Steaming : 6 minutes . Poaching : I like to add the fish to the cooking liquid while the liquid is room temperature . I bring it to a simmer , and then turn the heat to low , cover , and cook for about 15 minutes . Pan Frying : This is n't quite as popular a method as the above for cooking cod , however , if you want to do it , I would recommend cooking it on high heat , flipping once the opaqueness has reached about halfway up the side of the fillet . Basically , it does n't matter which method you use as long as your cod ends up with an even internal temperature of around 54 ° C ( 130 ° F ) .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
Do n't see why you ca n't make oaked meat . Corned beef and salt pork have been around for a long time . The ' corn ' referred to is n't actually corn , but is rock salt . Here is a good starting point if you want to make oaked , corned beef which does n't require refrigeration : <URL> In the above article it specifically mentions barrels for storing the salted meat . Try google with [ salting meat ] . Having read some research some years ago regarding the propagation of bacteria on artificial ( plastic ) and natural ( wood ) cutting boards , and the large difference in the ability of bacteria to grow on these two mediums , wood being by far the most bacteria resistant , it would seem at least prudent and in your case , desirable , to use wood containers . Oak barrels are available in many sizes and you should be able to order them with removable covers with a bit of inquiry . There is plenty of oak , in many forms , commercially available . The explosion of wineries has produced many caterers to the makers of that product . Here is a source for oak chips : <URL> Here is another source for all types of oak , including barrels : <URL> If you do n't want to make the commitment of barrels , months long curing and the space requirements for same , you could simply buy some winery chips , brine your meat in the refrigerator with oak chips between layers of meat or surrounding a piece of meat . Have fun !
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
What I do is use a big plastic bowl . The bowl is about 18 " in diameter at the top and holds about 2 gallons of water . I fill the bowl about 1/2 to 2/3 full of blueberries and then fill it to the brim with water and leave the water running into it . As the bowl is filling and when it 's full I gently agitate the berries with my hands . Most of the chaff naturally floats to the top and spills over the edge of the bowl . As I agitate the berries , I also try to direct any leaves to the edge and pull any berries back from the edge . I lose a few good berries , but not too many and since I 'm dealing with a lot of them I do n't worry about it too much . As I 'm agitating the berries , I can feel a lot of the squishy ones and pull them out to look at them and discard if they 're too far gone . When most of the chaff is gone , I dump the berries into a colander and let them drain . I 've tried spinning them in a salad spinner , but for the amount of berries I 'm trying to process , I 've found that in order to remove any appreciable amount of water I can only put a small amount at a time in the spinner so it takes forever to spin them all . So I let them drain , and then since I 'm usually freezing these berries , I put some paper towels down on a tray and spread out a layer of berries . When they 're spread out I can pick out most of the squished or shriveled ones that I missed earlier , then I pull the paper towels out and freeze them . I have n't ever looked for one , but I 've always wondered if there 's such a thing as a colander or sieve or screen with really big holes - i.e. just slightly smaller than a blueberry - that I could just dump the berries into and rinse off all the debris . One big limitation to this technique is that it bogs down if you 're dealing with less than fresh berries . Picking out all the squished or moldy ones if they 've been sitting around too long is problematic .
Why bother paying for instruction or books . The best way to learn is watching a video and practicing . Youtube Youtube has a great wealth of videos on knife skills . I 'm more a visual learner . I like to see a video . A book are not going to help me squat . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( video is labeled as sharpening although he is showing a knife being honed ) <URL> Sundry old Martin Yan episodes across youtube . Cleaver centric technique that requires paying attention to do safely , but can achieve a lot . Chowhound Chowhound has a great wealth of knife skill videos . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Other <URL>
Clean it immediately , before anything has a chance to dry . As soon as I 'm done grating anything , I run the grater under water and wipe it with a sponge . Wipe with the direction of the blades , then run a little water inside it . Optional : put the grater in the dishwasher to clean fully .
The oil will always separate from the rest of the product . ( home made or natural/bio peanut butter will behave the same way ) When that happens , just spend some time and elbow grease to mix it back together again . if the tahini was stored in the fridge , it might take longer because everything will be harder . Just leave it on the counter for a while until it gets to room temperature before mixing it back together . ( after googling ) People suggest to keep the jar upside down and when you want to use it , just put it back straight and let it stand for a while , it will mix itself ( a little bit ) together again .
What you want is cream with 35 % -40 % milkfat , and no gelatine or other stabilizers for whipping . If you use a lighter cream , then it will not have the rich , creamy texture , and evenly thick consistency you seek . In fact , if you use a light enough cream , it will not thicken properly . Now we enter the murky realm of regional naming differences , trying to find the appropriate kind of cream ! In Australia , this would be called pure cream ( 35-56 % milkfat ) ... which might be the same as " cooking thickened cream . " Read the label and make sure it is just cream , not gelatin or foam stabilizers like " thickened cream " . It could also be labelled " single cream " too ( ~ 35 % milkfat ) . In America , we call it heavy cream , or heavy whipping cream , and it is defined as 35 % + milkfat , and is generally around 38 % . In the UK , <URL> I found the uses a mixture of milk and " double cream " ( cream with 48 % + milkfat ) . They mix 100 mL whole fat milk + 426 mL of double cream . The final milkfat content is somewhere around 40 % . In the rest of the EU , the same procedure appears to be the best bet , since I ca n't find clear names for heavier creams besides double cream ( which appears to be the same as the UK ) . Edit : You may also be able to get a good result using straight double cream . I 'm looking at a French recipe that uses it . The catch is , of course , that while the minimum fat content is specified , actual fat content in double cream can vary considerably , potentially giving erratic results .
It is no different from other prototyping processes or exploratory research . You are not confirming a scientific hypothesis here , you are actively searching . So the most important thing is : fail fast . So , for the question of mini batches vs. large batches , you certainly need mini batches . And in cooking it is more important than in other fields , as humans have a very poor ability to remember or record sensory qualities . In tasting two muffins side by side , you will notice differences which would not be obvious from notes from previous batches . Another thing which people find hard to remember : beat the Not Invented Here syndrome ! There is a lot of information out there about which ingredient does what , which ratios are good for a given type of baked good , etc. . It is boring to research them if you could be baking instead - but in the end , experimenting alone in your kitchen without theoretical background will never give you results as good as those created by teams of specialists who have been doing this their whole life , and using other information sources beyond primary experimentation . So , as with any good research , formulate your question first , and be specific . Then search for answers to this question . Only after you have found the theory , experiment how it applies to your recipe . Randomly changing things and hoping that you will hit gold is what many people do , but it is the opposite of a best practice .
<URL> recommends that you wrap the scallions ( or green onions ) in plastic wrap , and that site also says they 'll last 7-10 days that way . I actually wrap them in a damp paper towel and then in plastic wrap . I keep this little packet in the crisper drawer . I 've kept them about 2 weeks this way . Either way , each time you open the packet you should check for damaged parts and discard them .
end question
start question
What 's the functional different between a skillet and a saute pan ?
Skillets are not designed to hold much liquid ; as you point out , the curved sides are optimized for easy flipping and turning ( i.e. with a spatula ) . They also normally do not come with lids ; I 'm sure there are some out there , but even my All-Clad skillets did n't . You can really only use a skillet for high-heat searing or frying due to their low profile . Do n't bother trying to poach or even shallow-fry in one . Sauté pans , on the other hand , have more height , and usually do come with lids . They 're a little heavier , and do n't make it as easy to turn , but they can also be used for shallow-frying and moist-heat cooking methods like braising or poaching . I 've seen people make sauce or chili in sauté pans as well ; sometimes they 're more convenient if you 're only going to make a small quantity , since the large exposed surface area ( relative to a saucepan ) makes it easier to reduce sauces . It 's a no-brainer if your recipe starts out with sautéing garlic , onions , vegetables , etc. , and then has you adding the liquid ingredients ; if you have a large enough sauté pan then you do n't need to bother transferring to a saucepan afterward . I think you 've got it backwards ; of the two options , a sauté pan is definitely the more versatile option . I use both , but if I only had the space or budget for one , I 'd choose the sauté pan , because it can do everything a skillet can do ( just not quite as well ) and many more things a skillet is useless for . A skillet is really only necessary for people who do a lot of pan-searing . Note that as commenter Owen suggests , there are " French skillets " sold which have higher bases ; these are not really skillets , and are not normally sold with lids , but assuming you can find or improvise one , they would make semi-decent multi-taskers . I maintain that cast-iron skillets , while taller , are not nearly as versatile due to their reactive material and weight - I only ever use mine for searing/grilling .
Ideally it should be matte to just-slightly-shiny black and very smooth . <URL> has some terrific information on the ideal oil to use ( flaxseed ) and method for seasoning , with actual scientific grounding .
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
I do n't usually hull strawberries , but when I do I use a straw . The idea is that you push the straw up through the tip of the strawberry and it comes out at the stem . For pictures you can see <URL> are just Google " hull strawberries with a straw "
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
The primary purpose is for flavor . If it 's the expense of a large bottle for a few tablespoons here and there you should be able to buy the mini bottles ( as are served on airplanes ) from a local liquor store . If you do n't want to use or have it around due to issues with alcohol then look for other items that have as similar flavor to substitute . Sherry has a sweet nutty flavor to it and apple juice can often work suitably well . Keep in mind you 'll probably not find an exact flavor match but it can be close . A small amount of orange extract could be used in place of grand marnier . Depending on the item , you might also try flavored syrups that are used for coffee drinks . Remember that these have a lot of sugar in them so you 'll need to compensate by cutting back on sugar elsewhere in the recipe and obviously do n't use them where the sweet flavor would n't be welcome .
The differences are as follows : Quinoa is a pseudocerial coming from goosefoot <URL> . It is one of the trendy " superfoods " because it has a very high nutritional value ánd is gluten free . I have always used it as a grain substitute and do not know if it 's any good as the main ingredient for a burger . Quorn is a meat substitute made of mycoprotein from fungus . <URL> . In my personal experience quorn is a very acceptable substitute for ground beef , so a burger made of this material is likely to taste pretty decent . Soy is a plant material traditionally used for instance in tofu . It has long been used as a meat substitute due to the high protein content . In my humble opinion it has been surpassed by other meat alternatives , mainly because soy based meat alternatives lack in texture . All very different products then , where most likely the only common factor is the spicing .
I do n't think you will hurt the pan , cast iron skillets can take a lot of heat . I think the biggest risk is that you are building a kind of dangerous tower . If you were to somehow knock it over you could hurt yourself badly .
Yes , you can detect the difference . How much of a difference will depend on the quality of both the imitation and of the real thing . That said , it 's difficult if not impossible for me to pick out the differences in baked goods . So I keep both around , and use the ( much cheaper ) imitation stuff for baking , and the real stuff for sauces , icing , custards , milkshakes , etc. . Incidentally ... In a pinch , bourbon makes a half-decent substitute for vanilla .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
The reasons people still roast whole birds are : Roasting a whole chicken is easier than butterflying it . While it 's not tough to butterfly a chicken many people do n't know how , or do n't want the cleanup It 's less prep time to roast a whole chicken . If you are busy you can have it from the fridge to the oven in less than a minute , while butterflying or jointing it is n't super-quick Aesthetics : some people like the look of a whole chicken on the table
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
A pizza stone in a normal oven will only get the maximum temperature of the oven ( probably not more than 280 ºC / 530 ºF ) . A specific pizza oven will gett hotter ( the one you linked gets 390 ºC / 735 ºF and , indeed has a stone inside ) . If you want to get Italian style pizzas , go for the pizza oven . They need that high temperature in order to be ready in ( ideally ) 90 seconds . Those Ferrari ovens are one of Italian 's favourite ones , albeit they 'll need a bit more time than 1.5 minutes achievable in wood fired traditional pizza ovens . You ( probably ) wo n't be able to achieve those high temperatures with a normal home kitchen oven , unless you have a pyrolytic home oven , and hack it in order to cook in it during the pyrolysis cycle . As for the waiting time between pizzas using a stone , consider it as a capacitor ( or a rechargeable battery ) : It takes heat ( until is soaked up ) , and then gives it back . Once you make 1 pizza ( or a loaf of bread ) , it needs to soak ( a bit ) again .
I think there 's probably a bigger difference between types of zesters than between brands . No matter what type you choose , look for one that limits how deeply you can cut into the fruit 's peel . You want to get only the colored layer , and as little of the white pith ( the bitter under-layer ) as possible . The most common kind that I 've seen -- a series of little loops at the end of a metal scraper thing ( hard to describe , I guess ) -- are too small in my estimation . They work OK , but they are usually kind of dull , so they release a lot of the oils as you use them , and it takes a long time to get a lot of zest . Some also have a second slot to allow you to cut a fat piece of zest , appropriate for a martini or the like . Even on the fine side , the zest they make is n't really very fine , and might wind up as a texture in the final dish . ( I think of these as more of a bar tool than kitchen tool , and would n't purchase one of these of any brand ) Microplane graters are quite popular for zesting , and they 're what I use the most . They do n't dig deep , and are crazy sharp so they do n't bruise/mash the zest much -- less fragrant oil on the tool , more in the dish . They also work really fast -- it takes very little time to get the zest from an entire orange . The zest produced is very fine and will disappear in most cooking applications . Because they 're sharp it 's easy to grate your fingers by accident , so they require some care in use . There are lots of styles out there , from the classic that looks almost like a wood rasp to ones that look more like a grater . I think these are great to have on hand anyway , since they 're really good with parmesan cheese and other hard items , and they 're killer for zesting . Another option is a standard vegetable peeler . These take bigger slabs of skin off , and take some practice not to cut too deep . If you do cut too deep you can use a sharp paring knife to remove the excess pith from the backside . Kind of a lot of trouble , but with practice you can get good enough that you do n't need the second step . You can get a lot of zest in a hurry this way , but the pieces are huge . You 'd either need to cut them down or only use them in a recipe where you wanted to take the pieces of peel back out before serving . Since you probably already have one of these , this is your most economical option .
Generally speaking , butter spreads have a water component to them . That 's what the emulsifier is for , as it keeps the fat and water from separating . The problem is that you ca n't fry/cook with it . If you place it in a pan it will separate , and sizzle in a very unpleasant manner . If I remember correctly , it actaully smells quite awful in the process . As for baking , I think it 'll be fine anywhere there needs to be fat as fat . Wherever you need fat as something to hold the structure , you had probably best not use it . Caveat emptor , as I do n't bake very much at all . Let it be aid , however , that margarine as opposed to butter spread , can be used anywhere that butter is used . It is n't as tasty , and has trans-fats . On the other hand , it has less cholesterol .
Thin cut meat will curl if there is an outside perimeter of gristle or silverskin ( which there usually is ) . Those things shrink faster than the meat , causing the curling . Take a pair of kitchen shears or a sharp knife and make tiny cuts ( it should n't take more than 1/4 inch ) every inch or so around the perimeter of the steak , just into the meat itself . That should solve the problem .
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
end question
start question
How do I cook scallops ?
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
Many modern smoke/fire detectors have the ability to temporarily disable or decrease the sensitivity of the alarm for a short period of time , usually 15 or 20 minutes . At the end of the time period it returns to full sensitivity . You may want to look into replacing your smoke detector with one of these .
I am not familiar with nopales , but I would be astonished if their green color was determined by something else than chlorophyll . Chlorophyll is usually destroyed by normal cooking techniques . If you want to keep the color mostly green ( some dulling is inevitable ) : cook the vegetable in an alkaline fluid . The easiest way is to use water with some baking soda added . The problem here is that humans like food which is slightly acidic , and alkaline food tastes soapy . Also , vegetable fibers soften more easily in alkaline environments , so they will be somewhat mushy . So use a very small amount . If they are to be added to a dish which is acidic ( in a Mexican dish , the culprit will probably be tomatoes ) , cook the green vegetable separately , and only combine it with the rest of the dish at the last possible moment . Right before serving is best . Heat destroys chlorophyll too . Cook the green vegetable as short as possible . Blanching is perfect , do n't forget the ice bath at the end . It will probably be enough as a preparation method . While I do n't know how hard a nopale is , I find blanching to be quite sufficient even for broccoli ( provided the water contained either salt or baking soda ) , and their stems are one of the woodiest things we eat . If you do n't think they are softened enough after blanching , cook them longer , until you find they are sufficiently softened .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
Restaurants quite often cook pigs cheeks ' sous vide ' , but unless you have , or fancy investing in a water bath , you can do things the old fashioned way . How you prepare the cheeks for cooking will , to some extent , depend on which part you 're cooking . If you 're going to cook the whole cheek , you really should think about soaking in a brine of sugar , salt , vinegar and spices for 24 to 48 hours . If you 're just cooking the ' pad ' that part can be skipped . The thing to remember with cheeks , is they are quite a fatty meat and the muscle fibres are very dense , so whichever method you choose , it 's going to take time . One classic method is braising the cheeks with a variety of vegetables and something slightly sweet and sharp as a counter for the fat and cook in the oven for 2 to 3 hours at around 180c ( 350f ) Basically dust the cheeks in a little flour and season , then brown in some olive oil . remove form the pan and lightly sauté your vegetables , use leeks , baby onions , carrots , apples , garlic etc. add the cheeks pack to the pan , add some stock or stock/cider mix and cook . You could also do this on the hob ( cooker top ) in a heavy bottomed pan , but cook for 4 hours on a low heat .
I can imagine a few ways of doing it based on the texture you 're looking for , and what you have to work with . Remove the meat from the casing and fry the meat in a pan . You 'll basically be cooking ground meat which will allow you to easily seasons it and also integrate it into other foods . This method also allows you to season the actual meat if you want to . Cut the sausages into disks and fry them in a pan . This will leave you with more body than the first method , and also allow you to really get some good color on the flat parts of the cut sausage . Leave them whole , poke holes in them , and cook them on anything . I would n't do this for the application you 're looking for . You will eventually be cutting them up , and if you cut them after cooking , you wo n't have the browning that you could have had .
Trim your carrots , rutabaga , turnips , etc. to consistent sizes and put in a large saute pan . Add stock or water ( amount will depend on vegetables and their density along with quantitye of vegetables . Start with enough to come about 2/3 up the volume of veg . ) along with some salt , a couple tablespoons of butter and a couple tablespoons of sugar . Bring the liquid to a simmer and cover lightly with a lid or a circle of parchment paper . Simmer until vegetables are getting tender . Remove the lid and continue to simmer until liquid evaporates and sugar and butter create a nice glaze . Watch at the end to make sure the sugar does n't burn . Add any desired herbs , taste and adjust seasoning and serve .
Yes , cook the meat before stuffing into the ravioli . If you are worried about your mixture being too fatty ( which I did n't experience with a non-traditional beef and bacon ravioli ) , make sure to drain the meat well after cooking , perhaps patting it with clean paper towels to remove excess grease .
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
Standard prep for beef tongue seems to be : scrub it well and rinse , then soak it in cold water for 2-3 hours . Heat water to a low simmer ( about 200F ) and cook slowly for at least an hour per pound . Preferably cook as long as you can ( 5-6 hours ) to get a more tender result . When meat is tender and cooked , remove meat and save the broth . Cool the tongue and peel off the outer skin . The broth may be reduced and added to vegetables and meat to create a richer , meatier taco . I also found a tongue taco ( how is that NOT slang for some sexual act ? ) <URL> . Personally , I 'm also a big fan of cold boiled beef tongue with horseradish sauce . You can go from the cooked tongue straight to that just by slicing it up . Now I really want to make tongue tacos .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
The exact time and temperature will depend on the size of the breasts and your oven . You should always use a meat thermometer to verify that the chicken is cooked all the way through . For breasts , you want to make sure they 're around 160 F on the inside ( they 're actually safe to eat a bit earlier , but 160 F leaves you with a margin of error ) . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , you 'll need to cut them open to make sure they 're not pink on the inside , and the juices run clear . I 'd start the oven at about 375 F , and start checking on them after about 30 mins .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
Yes . In fact , many , many people believe ( falsely ) that adding salt before or during cooking will keep beans hard ( a myth addressed in your first link ) , and most of these people have been cooking perfectly good beans for many years without adding salt until the beans were fully cooked . The cooking time may vary slightly . In some circumstances , the texture of the beans and/or their skins may soften at somewhat different rates than with salt . But the beans will still cook fine . ( One note : some chefs have claimed that cooking beans without salt causes people to add even more salt afterward to create a flavor that tastes " properly salted . " Beans are generally enhanced by adding flavoring components early enough in cooking for the flavors to penetrate . But you can always add salt afterward too ; the resulting flavor distribution will just be different . )
end question
start question
Which tools can be used to safely cut bone ?
Well , if you do n't want to spend a fortune on a <URL> , your best bet is a bone saw . Image from <URL> Here 's one on <URL> . Here 's a less expensive one from <URL> . Here 's a fairly reasonably priced <URL> . If I was going to do a lot of butchery , I 'd consider that .
Often there 's no secret sauce that restaurants use , but plain old bog-standard sugar . I know it 's boring , but there you go . They also may be using bottled sweet and sour sauce , which is also boring , but readily available in many supermarkets . All is not lost , however , as if you want some more authentic ingredients then there are plenty of options . In my kitchen ( which is n't big enough to satisfy my capacity requirements for exotic ingredients otherwise this list would be bigger ) I have several ingredients which impart sweetness to Asian dishes : Palm sugar : more of a Thai than a Chinese ingredient , but I use it for many different cuisines . It imparts a slightly syrupy flavor . In the UK this can be found in any big grocery store in the Asian section . Sweet soy syrup : Also can be found under the name Kecap Manis , this is an Indonesian ingredient . It is basically teriyaki concentrate , it 's salty , very sweet , and has some spices in it . I use it in all sorts of Asian cooking ( and I sometimes add it to gravy to darken and sweeten it ) , and it would be my choice for the dish you want to make . I would add it instead of soy sauce until I have the sweetness I 'm looking for , then add regular soy to bring the saltiness to the right level . Adding a little bit of water helps loosen it up Honey : not a purely Asian ingredient of course , but honey can be magic anyway . The floral notes may be just what you need Now for the sour : Tamarind : you mentioned tamarind in your post as something to sweeten , but tamarind is actually quite sour . I use paste at home , it lasts forever in the fridge Lime or lemon juice : of the two I prefer lime juice when making Asian cooking sour . I ca n't quite say why . Rice vinegar : This is a very commonly used souring agent , I use it most often in Chinese cooking , and it would be my choice for a fried rice dish Also worth mentioning is Mirin - a reduced-alcohol Sake , usually with a bit of salt added . It 's used widely in Japanese cuisine . I personally do n't use it much , but it 's worth having in the flavor arsenal .
If your beef shank is chewy , it 's undercooked . Period . Whatever the amount of time is , even if it seems like a lot to you , it 's not enough . Overcooking will cause meat cuts with a lot of connective tissue ( like shank ) to dry , and even fall apart because it is too tender . But it will not still be chewy .
Fondant is nearly solid -- it 's rolled out , and placed onto the cake ( with a buttercream underneath as an adhesive ) . The advantage is that it goes on really quickly and smoothly over large items . It can also be cut into shapes with rather clean edges ( modeling chocolate gives sharper edges , but it 's not flexible enough to cover a round cake ) . You often see it on professional non-traditional cakes ( more novelties , when they need a solid color or something that 's strangely shaped . Fondant can also be used to give a solid background can then be piped into ( with buttercream icing , generally ) or painted . As it 's nearly solid , it can also be worked like you would clay to make decorations . Royal icing dries hard as it has no fat in it . It 's generally only used on cakes as a drizzle where you 're not attempting to cover the entire cake . You 'll often see it used on bundt cakes , but you more frequently see it used for cookies when you 're doing a flood-fill . Buttercream icings ( commonly called ' frosting ' in the US ) is likely the most standard for non-professional stacked cakes . It 's spread on , so it takes a little more work to get a clean smooth surface . ( the trick is to wait 'til the surface has hardened , put down some waxed paper , then smooth out all of the spatula marks ... you need to wait 'til the waxed paper does n't stick , but not so long that it has n't set up completely ) . You can also use buttercream in pastry bags to create flowers , ropes , basketweave and other decorations . ... And then there 's other frostings/icings , too , but they 're not as general purpose . They generally go with specific types of cakes -- caramel and other cooked frostings ( eg , used in ' German Chocolate Cake ' ) , cream cheese frosting ( for carrot and other spice cakes ) , whipped cream ( used in black forest cake &amp; strawberry shortcake )
The part about blanching that is important is that the vegetables are briefly cooked and then immediately doused in cold water to stop the cooking process . Processors use boiling water as it is easier to manage and you can put flavorings and other additives ( preservatives , color enhancers , etc ) to the water to get the effect desired . There 's no reason you ca n't steam them instead as long as you dip them in ice water to arrest the cooking process . There 's some things that steam blanching would n't be good for , like removing the skins from tomatoes , for that boiling water is the way to go , but for preparing vegetables for the freezer it will work fine . Some considerations : Industrialization of the process : it 's easy to set up a line with a pot of boiling water and a bowl of ice water while using a basket to immerse . Steaming wo n't be as straightforward , and will be more time consuming . If you have a lot of vegetables you may want to consider boiling instead Safety : You will need to be able to move the vegetables from your steamer to the ice water quickly without getting scalded , so think about your setup and tools
I have been in this situation before and I did try freezing it . When I used it later on , it did taste and feel OK , but as you would expect , not the real fresh taste . I do not think the ingredients in the marinade will have any effect while it is frozen . While thawing , the yogurt might split , leaving more than usual water , but that shouldnt alter much of the outcome . It will be still good after defrosting ; I would normally defrost by leaving the item in the refrigerator overnight , rather than quick methods like microwaving or even leaving at room temperature on the kitchen counter .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
The classic way to compensate for saltiness ( especially in Asian cuisine ) is to add something sweet ( usually sugar ) , which tricks one 's taste-buds into thinking that the food is both less salty and less sweet . ( Ever wonder why a can of cola has 45 + mg of sodium ? It 's there partially to mask all the sweetness which gives you a sugar rush , and simultaneously make you thirstier ! ) I seem to recall reading a section on this phenomenon in <URL> , but my copy is back home . I 'll try and post an excerpt later today . Update # 2 : I ca n't seem to find any mention of saltiness inhibitors in OFaC , however , there is a section on sweetness inhibitors ( cf. page 663 ) so I must have been confusing it with that . Update # 1 : I have n't gotten a chance to look at OFaC yet , however , I did find this study : <URL> by Keast and Breslin . Journal of Food Quality and Preference , 14 ( 2 ) 111 -- 124 . March , 2003 . Elsevier . It is a survey of research on both perceived and chemical reactions between different tastes . When compounds eliciting tastes are mixed many outcomes are possible , including perceptual enhancement and suppression , unmasking of a taste not initially observed , or possibly chemical synthesis of a new taste . The survey notes ( see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 ) : At medium and high intensities/concentrations sweetness was generally suppressive of other basic tastes . and also Sweetness suppressed salty taste at moderate intensities . It goes on to note that at even higher concentrations sweetness and other tastes are symmetrically suppressive ( i.e. , their tastes cancel each other out ) .
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
Sure it 's safe , there 's no risk in putting jam in baked goods . It says refrigerate after opening so it does n't spoil after being left out too long - some people do n't realize it needs to be refrigerated after opening because it is stored in the cupboard before opening . The important thing for food safety is to make sure that the pastries are eaten soon enough after baking . The cream cheese will go off sooner than the jam will , so do n't let them sit around .
The term " double " is not specific to pork - it 's also used with lamb - but it means something different in each case . A lamb double chop or loin double chop differs from a regular loin chop by including both the top loin and tenderloin , but not the flank . It has n't actually been cut twice . A pork butterfly chop is sometimes called a " double chop " because , as the name implies , it 's been <URL> . A very thick cut is taken from the loin eye and then cut again to make the butterfly . Of course , if you cut a butterflied pork chop in half , and served just one half , it would basically be a regular pork chop . So if you that 's what you actually got , I 'd call it a marketing gimmick . I 've never actually heard the term " double-cut chop " - there are some vague references to it on Google , but as far as I know , it 's not a proper butchering term . Perhaps the term got relayed through several people and mutated somewhere along the way .
I finally found the answer to this question : I was in the supermarket yesterday and on a can of lentils the ingredients listed on the side of the tin had the phrase ' firming agent ' in brackets beside the entry for calcium chloride .
Sardines are canned , which means the high heat of a pressure canner . That is what softens the bones . If you are wanting softer bones for other kinds of fish , you can either cook them using a pressure cooker or can them . However , this will only work for smaller fish that have smaller bones . If your main concern is that you will swallow a bone and choke , then buy your fish as fillets only . Most fish fillets have no bones at all . The pin bones that are in salmon fillets can be removed with needle nose pliers , and are so small that you could n't choke on them if you tried .
You might be stumbling about the fact that " <URL> " is more ambiguous that your Krapfen = donut conclusion . The small piece of yeast-based dough , often filled and/or fried . That 's the category your " Krapfen " and donuts fall into . In many dialects they are also called " Kreppel " . ( And a bunch of other names . ) Filled pasta dough , sweet or savoury , typically folded and/or crimped together . While an Italian would talk about " ravioli " , an Estern European about " pieroggi " and an Asian about " dumplings " , someone from Southern Tyrol or the Allgäu would call them " Krapfen " ( but also use the term for the variety above ) and in Jiddish cuisine it 's a " <URL> " . So if you want a donut , say so . The term krapfen wo n't mean anything to an English speaker ( check your favourite dictionary , I just did ! ) . But do n't be surprised if you are offered kreplach and get a ravioli , not a donut .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
According to Kenji Alt 's experiements ( admittedly with beef ) , the major effect of the bone is insulation , which matters in a high-heat cooking environment , but not in sous-vide . See : <URL> For sous-vide cooking , the bone adds little value , other than appearance . It may also make it harder to put the product in your bag and seal it without a puncture . Still , there should be no harm in leaving it on if you choose to . In his ultimate <URL> , Kenji Alt does leave the bone on for the sous-vide process .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
If you want to do as much ahead of time as possible you have a couple of choices . You can definitely peel the sweet potatoes the day before and store them under water , but I would n't recommend slicing them . If they are sliced thinly enough for gratin they 're going to absorb a lot of water which will ruin the flavour . You can make the cream etc. mix up the day before though . The alternative is to make the whole gratin up the day before and keep it in the fridge uncooked and covered . This will mean some of the cream is soaked up overnight and you 'll get a very soft finish , but that might be what you want . Sweet potato does n't hold as much texture as potatoes during cooking anyway so the difference might turn out to be negligible .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Cocoa butter crystallizes into various types of crystals depending on the temperature at which it cools . If the butter cools into an ad hoc assortment of crystal types then they do n't arrange themselves uniformly and the chocolate will be dull and sticky . The process of melting chocolate to encourage proper crystal growth is called tempering . You will find <URL> a <URL> <URL> on the subject here . You can use any chocolate that contains cocoa butter . However , if you are going to be putting that much work into tempering your chocolate you might spring for the nicer quality chocolate and not just plain Hershey 's . Alternatively , if it meets your needs , you can either serve your chocolate still melted or make a thick syrup/fudge dip that stays soft and does n't need to be tempered .
end question
start question
Why should I add salt to my curries ?
Your experience with the curry is normal . Salt helps bring out and enhance existing flavors . This is true for everyone , as far as I know . Different people have different sensitivities , and want different amounts , but the effect is the same . Given that you thought the curry tasted better with it , I would n't be surprised if you should also be adding salt to other things - maybe just not as much as recipes typically call for .
In most wheat-based recipes , gluten strands are formed while you work the dough . If you do n't rest the dough , rolling can be more difficult and you may get a tougher texture in the final product . Additionally , refrigerating the dough up to a certain point will firm up the fats in the recipe ( butter , etc ) , which will make the dough less mushy and will making rolling out the dough evenly a bit easier . Unless the dough is so firm it becomes brittle , refrigeration will make the dough less fragile in most cases . Perhaps less important , the moisture levels may become a bit more consistent throughout the dough as well .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
The key is to have the finest possible salt . One way to do this is to take any salt you like , and grind it fine in a mortar and pestle . This just takes a few seconds , and then you can customize to a particular sea salt you enjoy and avoid the need to buy a special popcorn salt . A rotating action in the mortar and pestle ( as opposed to pounding ) is most efficient for grinding salt .
similar to what julio said , the main reason is that typical wheat-based noodles release a lot of starch into the water , which changes the consistency of the soup . the starches can add a dirty colour to the water , but more than that , they can also thicken the soup undesirably ( think of making a roux ) . Finally , if there are leftovers , the noodles can sometimes become completely water logged , making eating it the next day a bit of a soggy experience . That said , with all these considerations there are times when you might add the noodles directly in -- non-starchy noodles ( eg . like rice noodles ) seem to do ok . also parboiling regular pasta before hand seems to help a lot with the starch and can still help you achieve the flavour integration you mentioned .
The easiest and best solution for the problem is to not dissolve it into water in the first place . Powdered sweetener keeps indefinitely . Dissolved sweetener falls smack in the middle of <URL> , so you have converted a shelf stable food into an unstable one . Assuming that you want to keep it at room temperature , there is not that much you can do . You can reduce the water , but I do n't know enough about the solubility of sucralose , it is possible that it is still susceptible to mold at the saturation point , just like sugar . You could try acidifying it sufficiently to stop the mold from growing . But then it will taste much less sweet , so you will have to add a much larger amount to your drink , several time the amount you normally use . Alternatively , you can acidify it less and use sodium benzoate as a preservative . It is normally used for industrially produced food , so I can not suggest the correct ratios of acid to sucralose to sodium benzoate . But note that simply mixing them in any old way wo n't give you a safe product , you may need industrial recipes for correct usage .
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
Your question makes me think of demi-glace . From your question , I would say that you 're trying to get a nice shiny thick sauce for your duck , one that tastes of red wine . If that 's your goal , I would recommend you Reduce your stock down until it 's about the total volume of liquid that you 're going to want . The stock reduction should be roughly the consistency you want your final sauce to be . Add an equal volume of wine Reduce down to desired consistency ( so about by half ) . This will give you a lovely sauce , with lots of that sticky goodness that reduced stocks deliver so nicely . You might do this with all of your stock , then freeze cubes of unused sauce for later ; they make a great addition to other bases . Left-over alcohol is not going to be an issue here , by the way , you 'll have long since boiled/simmered it off .
In either case store the cheese in the liquid it came in , transferring it to a clean container and covering well . Feta lasts reasonably well , but mozzarella only keeps well for a couple of days .
If you are fermenting sauerkraut , then you should keep the salt content the same if you add other vegetables . The salt helps keeping undesirable bacteria in check , so you probably do n't want to " dilute " it . Increase the amount of salt so the ratio between cabbage/vegetables and salt stays the same . TL ; DR : Treat any additional vegetables like cabbage when calculating the amount of salt .
The salt adds flavor , but it also helps reduce the gelation of the starch in the pasta . The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains . When these grains come into contact with water , they will trap some of it ( think cornstarch in cold water ) , but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other , and you have starch gelation . Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid ( lemon or cream of tartar ) . Tap water in most cities is made alkaline , which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water , making the pasta stickier .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
I have that problem when I am impatient and do n't let the pasta dry out long enough before putting it on to boil . It is important to let the pasta dry even just in loose little heaps once sliced into noodles . It does n't have to get totally dry just dry enough that you ca n't squish the noodles back together into dough . Also you need to cook fresh pasta for a very short amount of time in a LOT of water , about 1.5 x as much water as you would use for dry , so that the noodles have less chance to run into each other . In fact I frequently do n't boil them at all separately but just toss them in the soup I am serving them with for for a two to three minutes before serving .
I do n't know how well a substitution will work in this case , because I do n't know how the salt is being used in the recipe . If you 're mixing the salt into something where it will dissolve , then go ahead and substitute , using <URL> . If you 're mixing it into cold things , and it does n't sit for very long , I 'd go with a finer salt if you have it . If it 's a recipe that calls for a salt rub , where you rub the bird down with salt , let it sit , then pat dry and roast , you 're not going to have as good of results with a replacement . The issue is the size and shape of the crystals ; kosher salt specifically sticks well to moist surfaces to draw out the liquid , and as a result , some of the salt is taken into the meat . You 're not going to get the same behavior with other salts ( or at least , not in the same amount of time ) .
Orange zest is where most of the oil is . This can be removed with a grater and some patience , or a peeler if you have a light touch , but the best way is a zester . They are fairly expensive and only do one thing , but they are the best tool for the job . <URL> makes a nice line , and I have no complains about mine . You want to avoid scraping the white pith from under the colored part of the skin , as it is bitter and does n't contain the flavor oils .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
Great question . the salt is not there for the taste of salt . A pinch of salt helps with the ionization process so your taste buds can pick up the tsate of the chocolate , ice cream , etc , better . I think this was discussed in an episode of Alton Brown 's Good Eats as well .
end question
start question
What happens to boiled pasta if you use too little water ?
See : <URL> <URL> Short answer : if you stir once or twice at the beginning to prevent sticking , and all of the pasta is submerged , you can very successfully make pasta in a reasonably small quantity of water . Here is a direct link to the <URL> both of the answers above cite .
Let it sit , pray carryover cooking does the job ( unlikely ) Wrap it in plastic wrap , tightly spin the top to close . Twist ' the tail ' into a knot or secure with string . Put it back in the water . Position it ' hole-up ' on a baking sheet , put in an oven ( time-consuming ) Crack the egg over a bowl , finish in a pan on low heat ( not ideal for runny yolks ) Microwave ( sad , but could work ) I vote for number 2 .
I went to the farmers ' market last week and bought a variety of apples . After cooking , here 's the order from softest to firmest : McIntosh , Cortland , Winesap , Yellow Delicious . The McIntosh of course practically dissolve . If you want to make quick apple sauce , or if you like really squishy pie , they 're the best . I typically prefer Cortlands for pie , b/c they do n't totally dissolve but neither do they keep their shape . I think I 'm going to try Winesap , though ; I think they 'd work great for pie . The Winesap apples I used got very soft , but they still held their shape . Think of it like a ripe banana or pear - it has shape , but you can squish it really easily . After 30 minutes in the oven ( making apple crisp ) , they got soft enough that lightly pressing with a fork would squish them down . They did not stay as firm as the Yellow Delicious did and definitely not as firm as Granny Smith would .
Fats adhere to broad or flat areas nicely ( fettucini , linguine ) and press the creamier sauces against more tongue surface to enhance/emphasize their smoothness Pooling sauces needs nested , medium pasta ( round or flat ) that help to punctuate the sharper and more diverse flavors of a smooth , acidic by alternating between pasta and sauce Angel hair and other fine pasta do well with a chunky sauce as it is effective with pick up but does n't obstruct the sauce 's texture once you get it in your mouth My basis for this is ( 1 ) ease and volume of transport , plate to mouth of sauce ; as well as ( 2 ) how the pasta interacts with the sauce to create mouth feel and churn of sauce against tongue . As for gnocchi and other variously shaped pasta ; if it has a cavity , it should have fats , if it has a textured surface acidic sauces will cling nicely . Obviously , I would shy away from pretending any of these were definitive answers , they are reasoned and seasoned , based on sauce/pasta dynamics and experience preparing them . This book has a listing of <URL> . This book , upon which Geometry was based , also has a <URL> . I do n't seem to be able to find any good , objective maxims for when to use what ; but , considering the variety of pastas and the prolific diversity of sauces ( i.e. a different ragu for every house ) , it seems only appropriate that every person should have an opinion on why a particular sauce works with a particular pasta .
<URL> recommends : Cover with a plate weighted down with jars filled with water or cover with a large food grade plastic bag filled with salt water ( 6 tablespoons salt per gallon of water . )
It is possible to over brine meat . If you leave it in too long it will get too salty . If you use a more dilute brine it wo n't get as salty but you will wash out more of the natural flavor into the water as well . You could submerge your turkey in its packaging in ice water in a cooler for a day before brining . You could even thaw the turkey in this manner if you made sure to keep it in ice water so it did n't get to 40F .
The major difference between butter and oil is that butter is only 80 % oil , with the rest being milk solids and water ( <URL> ) . This means that using oil you will lose some of the water content that your cake should have , possibly resulting in a dryer cake . On the plus side , cakes made with oil tend to dry out slower than those made with butter . The other possible different , but one that is unlikely with a mix I 'd think , is that it depends on the method of mixing in your fat . If the butter is to be whipped or creamed while softened this creates a different texture than one you could get with oil or melted butter . Whipped butter or especially butter creamed with sugar provides a network of air bubbles that act as a raising agent during cooking , and the result is a pound cake like crumb . If your recipe calls for melted butter , though , this is not a concern - the result is more like a traditional muffin or quick bread crumb . Finally , a vegetable oil has a fairly neutral taste . Usually when a vegetable oil is called for , this is desirable . Butter on the other hand has a more interesting flavor . Your cake may be a bit bland without it .
Adding a starchy substance such as rice or noodles to boiling water increases the surface tension of the water . When it 's just plain water boiling the surface tension of the water ca n't hold back the force of the steam rising and the bubbles burst . Starches increase this surface tension making the bubbles more elastic/pliable ( essentially creating a foam ) , thus requiring more force for them to burst . This makes the bubbles last longer which allows them to build up and eventually boil over . It 's more likely to occur with anything starchy like rice and pasta . A lower temperature should help to control a boil over as it will allow the water to cool somewhat and slow the boil . I 'd assume that , from your quoted text , that if you use less water you 're still imparting the same amount of starch making a thicker solution . More water would dilute this and bring it closer to normal water . In my own experience , small amounts of water allow lots of bubbles to form but nothing really boils over , it just splatters a bit . But reducing temperature and tilting the lid to let some air in has helped me in the past .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
Traditional cornichons are pickled with tarragon , not dill . I love that flavor !
There 's no single answer , as there 's a few considerations here : Was it ground meat , or a larger chunk ? How far cooked was it already ? How far over-salted is it ? Is it being cooked in some sort of sauce or other liquid ? Depending on the answer to those : If it 's not over-salted by much ... serve it with a sauce that has n't been salted , serve it on top of a bland starch ( rice , pasta , baked potato ) or mix it in as the flavoring to something else that 's unsalted . ( eg , a casserole , soup , stew , etc. ) If it 's uncooked larger chunks , you can rinse it off ( in cold water ) , pat dry , and then cook it . If it 's uncooked ground meat ... the salt will cause the proteins to start tightening , and make things start to stick together if it sits before you cook it . If you have n't stirred in the salt yet ( for those times when the lid came off a salt shaker ) , you might be able to get the worst of it off with a spoon , or even pick up the block of ground meat and shake it off . Rinsing is still an option , but it 's more difficult to dry back off before cooking ... you might have to resort to other options . If it 's while cooking ... you might still be able to rescue it . If it 's not in a liquid or sauce , for the ' lid came off the salt shaker ' situation , for large hunks of meat , just pick it up and shake and/or brush off the salt . For ground meat or smaller chunks ... you might need to add some water , and then pour the water off ( a strainer helps with this ) . If it 's larger hunks in a sauce , you can pull it out and remake the sauce . Depending on the type of sauce , you might want to save it to use it as flavoring in some other dish ( casserole , soup , etc. ) Your most difficult case is ground beef in a sauce . If it 's wet enough , you can rinse if off in a colander ... for thicker sauces , if it 's not so salty to be inedible , you can try serving it over rice , pasta , a baked potato ... or turn it into a casserole . Note that all of these assume that you 've caught the problem quickly ... if the meat 's been cooking in the salt for an extended period , you might have to go with the casserole route , as it 'll have absorbed the salt .
Do n't put the shrimp etc in the sauce in the first place and cook it separately , that way you do n't have to take it out . Then just top your pasta with it and if say you are cooking meatballs and want a little sauce on them mix a little sauce in with your meatballs and then put them on top . If you want that mixed in with the pasta look then do the same thing I said above and mix the pasta in your individual serving bowls or plates if you are using one after you have dressed your pasta . Your just not going to get an even distribution with random variables , all you can do is pick and count if you want everything evens .
I would do two things to make them more palatable . 1 ) Boil the briefly ( 5-10 mins depending on how hard of a veg they are ) in salted water . Something like a tablespoon of kosher salt per 4 quarts water . 2 ) After they are parboiled , I then will saute , simmer , or braise ( depending on the recipe/mood/vegetable ) in a highly flavored sauce or spice mix until they are cooked . So if I was cooking the carrots and ( green/string ? ) beans and wanted to use chili powder I would chop some onion and saute that in olive oil while the other veg parboils . Then , add 1-2 tbls chile powder to the onions ( and maybe some garlic , b/c everything is better w / garlic ) and let those flavors meld while you drain the veg . Once you have the veggies drained add them to the onions and spice w / a bit of liquid ( wine , beer , stock ; maybe 1/2 cup ) and let them cook on low until they are as done as you would like them .
Yes , it is true that we do n't add oil to the boiling water . I 'm not aware of any good reason to waste extra-virgin olive oil that way ! Some oil is always added at the end , over the sauce , when the pasta is already in the plate ! It has to be raw , so that it retains its fruit nuances and texture . If you are doing cold pasta salad and want to avoid sticky pasta , adding oil in advance wo n't help . You have instead to wash pasta under cold water to wash the starch away ( you can put the pasta in the colander directly under the running cold tap ) .
This is really about water content , not flavor . Eggplant contains a lot of water , and there can be plenty left after baking or grilling . If you then make a mashed/pureed spread like this , that water could make it a lot more liquid than you want . That said , if you really thoroughly roast or grill the eggplant , you can get enough of the water out of it that you do n't really need to drain it . If you prick a couple small holes in it , and bake for something like 45 minutes to an hour at 400-450 ° F ( 200-230 ° C ) , or similarly grill until it 's well-charred , it 'll probably be dry enough . The exact details depend on the size of the eggplant , and what you 're trying to make out of it .
The wine will bring several things to the breadmaking party : Acidity Alcohol Water Flavoring Color ( especially if it is red wine ) The biggest of these is the alcohol which is a yeast byproduct -- they do n't like it in their environment , and it inhibits their growth . The acidity can do the same . Proofing will be retarded , and you may need a larger starting quantity of yeast than for a wineless loaf . You would also have to adjust the amount of liquid in the formula to account for that from the wine . Your bread would probably take on a strange mauve color , after being baked , and may have some hint of winey flavor . I think the lack of well known wine-loaves in the world 's baking traditions indicates this does not generally work out very well , although there are some recipes for yeast raise breads containing wine such as <URL> from The Fresh Loaf .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
I do n't think it 's your fault . Mates do n't break that often . Besides , I 've seen a lot of people drink it hotter than me without any problems . As for preparation , it was recommended to me the following : Place the leaves in the mate Add a little bit of cold water Add hot water When and how you put the straw is a whole other chapter !
The salt adds flavor , but it also helps reduce the gelation of the starch in the pasta . The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains . When these grains come into contact with water , they will trap some of it ( think cornstarch in cold water ) , but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other , and you have starch gelation . Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid ( lemon or cream of tartar ) . Tap water in most cities is made alkaline , which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water , making the pasta stickier .
I presume you 're talking about active dried yeast . In that case , the granules of packaged yeast have some nutritive content to them , so what you observe when you add warm water is a weak form of priming . Priming is the addition of both warm water and a food source , typically sugar or flour , to dried yeast with the goal of ' waking-up ' the yeast from their dormant , packaged state . The warm water dissolves some of the food in the granules and warms the yeast up to a temperature which is favourable to fermentation .
end question
start question
Is there a technique to freeze gnocchi so they maintain their consistency ?
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
First , I would suggest you buy a higher quality can opener . I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited from my grandmother . I think it 's older than me . Second , do n't submerge the can opener in water every time you use it . I only full out wash it on the rare occasion I splash or drop something all over it . The rest of the time I just use my dishcloth to wipe the blade and handles clean and let it dry in the dish rack before putting it away .
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
You can freeze roux and store it up to 6 months without any problems . I put them in plastic ice-tray forms until they are frozen , then move them to a refrigerator bag . Just keep following things in mind : Leave a bit of room in the container before putting it in the freezer - roux expands when freezing . Bring it to room temperature before using it .
The primary difference between a dumpling and a noodle , besides shape , is leavening . Dumplings usually have either egg or baking powder to make them lighter . There 's considerable bleedover in terminology here . It 's reminiscent of the difficulty of defining " chowder " . You 're always finding a counterexample . I would n't be surprised if someone came up with something called gnocchi , gnochs , gnocchetti , that has no leavening . I can think of two myself . Gnocchetti alla romana are semolina " dumplings " sometimes leavened with egg , particularly when they contain spinach , but more often not . Gnocchetti sardi are dry pasta shapes that kind of look like thin potato gnocchi .
Anything that 's hard to get off of your counter can make a good food coloring . Regarding natural sources , remember that you run the risk of also adding additional flavors so take that into consideration . Among other companies , <URL> makes all natural foods including colorful fruit snacks . What they use for the coloring in these snacks are : turmeric , black carrot juice concentrate , and annatto . ( I 've cooked with turmeric and annatto before and they DEFINITELY stain . ) Aside from Google searches , you could probably find practical natural food dyes by looking in the ingredient list from other all-natural foods . Back to your specific question about beets , this is from <URL> : 1 Put your fresh beets in a glass or enamel pan with just enough water to fully cover them . Bring to a boil and turn the heat down a bit to simmer for 30 minutes . Make sure the water does n't boil out . Take them off when the beets are not quite done - When a knife goes into them but they 're not as soft as you 'd like for eating . Remove them from heat . 2 Strain the beets , reserving the beet juice . Peel , slice and chop up your beets . Return them to the beet juice . Soak for four hours . 3 Strain the liquid out and take out 3/4 cup . Add your 2 teaspoons vinegar to this . This is your red dye . 4 Use canned beets and you can skip half of the work . Drain the can reserving 3/4 cup liquid . Add 2 teaspoon of vinegar to this and you 're done . You can still eat the beets , too . The fresh ones are n't terribly appealing after this .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
In today 's modern culture and cooking style , the difference is likely unobserved . I would consider a stew less constructed than a casserole , however . While the stew would start with generally uncooked ingredients ( perhaps except for browning the meat , and likely be mixed together while cooking to give a single-dish of meat , vegetables and sauce . A casserole might include some cooked ingredients , often be more properly layered and probably not mixed while cooking .
I have a whole freezer full of jalapenos - so yes , you definitely can . They definitely retain their heat just fine . They keep their texture better if you do 2 things : Use a vacuum sealer and take out all the air - to reduce freezer burn . Because of this , I recommend you freeze them in batches . Blanche them for 2-3 minutes in boiling water and then drop them in freezing water . From what I 've read , this destroys a particular enzyme that helps not break the pepper down further . I 've done this and not done this - and doing it definitely helps on the texture . They should be good for a little over a year in a vacuum sealed bag - as far as the texture goes . They should never go bad otherwise . Cos and Sobachatina - bring up another good point : freezing fast and effectively . You can try AB 's method that Cos points out , but I do what Sobachatina does . Freeze on a single layer on a tray in the freezer . They freeze quicker and better than dumping them in a bag .
Using a cut of meat without too much connective tissue will definitely help . Talk to your butcher about good options . Stew meat is n't the best choice ; it contains a lot of connective tissue which breaks down during the long , slow stewing process . Grilling is too hot and quick to break down that tissue . If you do grill stew meat , lower temperature and longer cooking time may help some , but in that case you 'll probably want to do the veggies separately . A good marinade will help . You can add some meat tenderizer , or make fresh pineapple juice one of the marinade ingredients . Pineapple contains an enzyme that 'll break down some of the connective tissue , but it has to be fresh -- canned juice will have been heated , destroying the enzyme .
It is a rather long timescale , but you already made the thing . I would put it in the freezer for 24 hours , the leave it in the fridge to thaw . That should be right on target for Sunday , without having to worry about infringing any guidelines .
you might try forcing whatever it is into the cherries . This can be done under pressure , which you might be <URL> using a <URL> or maybe <URL> , or simply by vacuum packing the cherries with the soaking liquid . once vacuum packed you might be able to put in a pressure cooker to increase the pressure , but I 'm not sure what the heat would do to the cherries . EDIT : having read the recipe , I 'm not sure any of this would work .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
Buying coriander whole rather than ground is probably your best bet . As is the case with allspice and coffee , they 're bound to eventually lose flavor , likely to light/heat/moisture , fresh grinding will bring back some of the spark . If you 're using fresh from the garden coriander you 're not out of options . There 's <URL> , and also <URL> if you 're willing to go down that route . If the fridge/freezer simply is n't an option , and having a bouquet of coriander is n't in the cards , then I would just hang them upside down in your basement/closet and then keep them in airtight containers away from direct light and heat .
Yes , generally , especially if you 've kept them in good conditions . ( If the package has been open and it 's damp and they might 've grown a little mold , that 's obviously bad . ) The expiration date is for purposes of quality , as you 've noted ; it does n't indicate anything about safety . So give them a quick inspection , see if there 's enough flavor left for them to be worth using , and go for it .
Cut out any green parts then remove the skin . If you can see any remaining green parts after the skin is removed then cut them out too . What you 'll have at this point will likely look and feel like any other peeled potato except with bits cut out . If it still feels soft or looks unusual throw it out , otherwise its fine . Just a normal potato whose skin had gone a bit wrinkly and soft .
There is a lot of water in the milk . The high heat turns the water into steam . The egg and flour contains proteins and gluten that forms a " net " . The steam ca n't escape without pushing the net upwards . This makes the dough rise . It helps that the container is a narrow cylinder .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
end question
start question
Why does Swiss Cheese have holes ?
Those are called " Eyes " by cheese makers . The appear when bacteria convert lactic acid into propionic acid and carbon dioxide , or metabolise citrate . These bacteria occur in dairy products , though they can also be added to the curd to get the characteristic eyes . See for example <URL> on Wikipedia .
Lactobacillus is the genus of the bacteria responsible for making yogurt . These bacteria consume sugars and excrete lactic acid . The acid denatures the proteins in the milk , causing them to coagulate into a delicious gel . Lactobacilli can consume sugars other than just lactose . <URL> The reason they eat lactose when making yogurt is because that 's what they have . There is more than enough lactose in milk to make yogurt . There 's no reason to add other sugars . Lactobacilli are also responsible for the fermentation of pickles . In that case , even though they still produce lactic acid , they are consuming the sugars available in the vegetables , not lactose .
If the yeast is n't out of date then the most likely sounding culprit is the temperature of your water . It should be between 105-110 . If it 's too cool then you wo n't activate the yeast and if you get it too warm you 'll start to kill it . Another possible case can be when you 're adding the salt . If it 's going in before or at the same time as the sugar you will arrest the gas production and activity of the yeast . Get the yeast , sugar , water mixture going first and create a shaggy dough with your flour . Add the salt as you 're starting to bring the dough together so that it does n't act too quickly to arrest the yeast development . If you keep your flour in the freezer or refrigerator , make sure it has come to room temperature before adding it to the water or the chill of the flour will de-activate the yeast .
You 've already given the name for this process in your question . Reduction is the cooking term used for thickening and intensifying the flavor of a food by simmering or boiling away some of the liquid .
There are a variety of factors at work here : Freezing foods " improperly " ( i.e. not flash-frozen , not vacuum-sealed ) causes ice crystals to form within the food , damaging the molecular structures . This is what causes many frozen leftovers to become " mushy " or change in texture . Again due to the formation of ice and the movement of water when the food is reheated , tiny particles such as spices can be lost in steam and/or runoff water . Extreme temperatures ( both hot and cold ) can denature enzymes in the food , changing their flavor , texture , etc. . As food sits , flavors in the food may blend together in different ways , causing the food to have less distinct flavors . If your freezer is n't especially clean and your food not well-sealed , your food may be absorbing other odors which are again " masking " the original flavor of your food . Hope that gives you some ideas .
This video of Alton Brown - Good Eats explains it way better than I ever can . <URL> If your bottle of wine turned to vinegar you probably have some " mother " at the bottom of that bottle that you can use in your next batch .
Sauces separate when frozen for several reasons . If it contains vegetables , the plant cells rupture when the water in them freezes . This means the sauce gets watery and the taste changes as the contents of the cells escape . With emulsions , the oil/fat microdroplets clump together when they freeze . When you thaw the sauce , the emulsion is wrecked , giving a runny consistency . You can defeat this by re-emulsifying as you thaw the sauce . See <URL> Due to <URL> , areas of less concentrated solution will freeze first , and more concentrated solution freeze last . As the solution gradually freezes , this has the effect of concentrating dissolved thickening agents in the last regions to freeze . When the solution thaws , the thickener is n't as evenly mixed .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
Aged gouda is my favorite cheese ! Beemster Classic Aged is like a firmer , creamy , sweet , slightly sharp , nutty version of regular gouda . I 've never had a 5 year , but 2 year aged gouda ( like Beemster xo ) is kind of like a creamy parmigiano but not as hard ... nutty , caramel/toffee flavors with random crunchy tyrosine bits . I would expect the 5 year to be comparable in flavor to Parmigiano with more creaminess and a less crumbly texture due to the fact that gouda is made with whole milk while Parmigiano is made with partially skimmed milk . Truthfully , it rarely lasts long enough for me to use it in anything ... it is the perfect cheese to eat by itself or with apple , pear , or almonds . You can basically use them anywhere you would use a sharp cheddar or parmigiano .
Buttermilk has a delicious flavor that is not at all approximated by lemon juice . It 's true that lemon or vinegar with milk will clabber it a little and provide the acid that the recipe needs but the flavor will be distinctly lacking . Get some buttermilk . It 's inexpensive and has a longer shelf life than normal milk . It is also exceptionally easy to make . If you make it a standard part of your pantry you will find yourself enjoying life more ( or at least pancakes . )
White sugar was commonly used as a preservative in the past , in much the same way as salt . It 's wildly hygroscopic ( like salt ) , and an excellent desiccant , so if you packed something in it , it would accelerate the drying process . This is actually the origin of fruit jam and fruit preserves , which are still common today , even after better methods of preservation are available . Salt was more common simply because many things like eating/living in WET sugar , so you had to be careful with how much water was in the thing you were trying to preserve . But as long as the sugar was dry it 's an extremely hostile environment for bacteria and little crawly things . Kept dry , it will last forever .
Ricotta is not supposed to melt , or dissolve , or anything like that . It is made up of protein clumps . The only way it can appear very smooth is if the manufacturer created a cheese where the clumps have been made very tiny mechanically - because chemically , they are still clumps and stay that way after heating . You said that you changed brands . There you have your explanation - your old brand must have been more finely " ground " than the new one , so you are noticing the clumps in the new one , while the ones in the old were too small to be noticed . This effect works in parallel with the gums Batman mentioned .
The magic is from Sodium Citrate Most mass produced cheese it based on " cheddar blends " . Basically large ( 50 Kg to 1 Mg ) blocks of cheese are made in a milk factory . When a consumer product is to be made from it , the cheddar is shredded , flavour and/or culture is added , and then using heat and pressure it is re-packed into consumer sized packages In some cases Sodium Citrate is added to improve the hold-together of the cheese Sodium Citrate is an old additive for " cooking cheese " , and it can be made at home with baking soda and lemon juice . Gently heat the juice of half a lemon in a microwave safe bowl , then add 1/2 to 1 tsp of baking soda and heat until fully reacted ( bubbles cease ) . Add about a cup of grated cheese ( hard or soft ) and repeat a gentle heat and stir cycle until it forms a smooth " sauce " This will remain liquid while warm If you let this cool you can mold it , or form " slices " <URL>
The vitamin loss is due primarily to the puree'ing . The viramin A in mangoes comes from beta-carotene , and beta-carotene breaks down easily due to oxidation . On a similar note , I 've seen recommendations that carrots ( another good source of beta-carotene ) not be chopped into small pieces before canning to preserve their vitamin content . Lots of vitamins are also destroyed by the heat of canning , but beta-carotene is not as susceptible to this problem because it is fat soluble .
I freeze cheese all the time , mostly mozzarella . It keeps longer . ( If I keep mozzarella or similar cheeses too long in the fridge it gets moldy , often even before its expiration date . ) However , I usually use frozen cheese only for cooking - i.e. if it 's going to be melted . Freezing cheese does change the texture . Parmesan , though , being a hard , aged cheese would probably be less affected by freezing . However , on the same token , aged cheeses keep very nicely in the fridge , so I would n't see much benefit in freezing it .
Basically , cream whips better when it 's cold . If cream were stored warm , the advice would be to cool the cream . Since it 's already cold , the advice is to cool the equipment ( as warm equipment will increase the temp of the cream ) . Mild science : the temperature effects the size of the bubbles that form , how fat clings to itself , whipping time , and overrun ( air cell structure / air phase volume ) . In other words how light and fluffy it will get and how long it is likely to stay that way . Warning , heavy science from <URL> : The effects of whipping temperature ( 5 to 15 ° C ) on the whipping ( whipping time and overrun ) and rheological properties of whipped cream were studied . Fat globule aggregation ( aggregation ratio of fat globules and serum viscosity ) and air bubble factors ( overrun , diameter , and surface area ) were measured to investigate the mechanism of whipping . Whipping time , overrun , and bubble diameters decreased with increasing temperature , with the exception of bubble size at 15 ° C . The aggregation ratio of fat globules tended to increase with increasing temperature . Changes in hardness and bubble size during storage were relatively small at higher temperatures ( 12.5 and 15 ° C ) . Changes in overrun during storage were relatively small in the middle temperature range ( 7.5 to 12.5 ° C ) . From the results , the temperature range of 7.5 to 12.5 ° C is recommended for making whipped creams with a good texture , and a specific temperature should be decided when taking into account the preferred overrun . The correlation between the whipped cream strain hardness and serum viscosity was high ( R2 = 0.906 ) and persisted throughout the temperature range tested ( 5 to 15 ° C ) . A similar result was obtained at a different whipping speed ( 140rpm ) . The multiple regression analysis in the range of 5 to 12.5 ° C indicated a high correlation ( R2 = 0.946 ) in which a dependent variable was the storage modulus of whipped cream and independent variables were bubble surface area and serum viscosity . Therefore , fat aggregation and air bubble properties are important factors in the development of cream hardness . The results of this study suggest that whipping temperature influences fat globule aggregation and the properties of air bubbles in whipped cream , which alters its rheological properties .
The oil is bubbling very simply because of the water inside the object ( eg : potato ) that is rapidly vaporized when come into contact with the very hot oil . Incidently this is a very good thing as done right , all the water coming out of the object keeps it from taking on too much oil , which would cause you to have over-greasy food . Edit : Also note as @SF commented below , that this can also be a very BAD thing if you put something with too much water into hot oil . Adding this in so nobody burns themselves .
The recipe 's goal is to use the natural bacteria in the beets and beet peels to cause the fermentation . The thing about using natural bacteria is that you never know what these are going to be , so it 's a crapshoot what flavors you are going to get . Beets produced in one farm may have radically different bacteria in them , different varieties grown in the same patch of land could also vary significantly . It 's the same process as making a sourdough bread starter using natural yeasts - you may get a nice smooth and delicate flavor , or you could get something that will take the paint off of a door . The point is that you may be doing everything right , it 's just that 's what you are going to get from the process . Looking at the science of the natural yeasts and assuming the recipe writer is not talking complete BS , it could be that the delicate bacteria spoken of in the recipe is being out-competed by the other natural bacteria in the water you use , and on the surface of the container , lid , and airlock . The thing to do in this case is to reduce or eliminate these other bacteria so that the beet bacteria will be the only game in town . To do this use sterilized water ( buy distilled or simply boil your water for a few minutes before letting it cool completely ) , or run your water through a filter which will remove or kill bacteria . Then use a chlorine solution to sterilize every single piece of equipment you will use . That means the container , lid , lock , spoons - anything that will come into contact must be very clean . Wash your beets in sterilized water as well . I 'd do that to the equipment even if I used a culture , it will increase my chances of a good result . If that does n't work you may have to accept that is the way natural kvass will taste . It could be that the writer of the article likes it that way , or simply does n't know what he/she is talking about . In that case consider using a culture - there 's no dishonor in it and you 'll get something drinkable .
I have never added butter to sponge sheets when making swiss rolls , jelly rolls , or anything similar in the past . It 's just straight up bread flour , sugar , and eggs . I can only think of three possible reasons why butter might be added : To improve the flavour ; To keep the sheets moist and help prevent overbaking , as any fat would be used in cake batter ; however , this is generally not a major concern in cake rolls ; or To help prevent it from sticking to the sheet ( do n't bother ; if you have this problem , use a silicone mat ) . Reasons # 2 and # 3 are n't very convincing to me , so I would only bother adding butter if you prefer the taste of swiss rolls with butter added . I do n't think butter would help with rolling at all , in fact it might make rolling more difficult on account of making the sheets more crumbly and less able to hold together under pressure .
Basic Physics of the System Bread rises ( as you probably know ) due to microorganisms , primarily yeast , converting sugars into CO ₂ + byproducts . The CO ₂ forms bubbles , stretching the gluten in the flour . In order for the bread to rise , the microorganisms must produce CO ₂ faster than it can escape from the dough . Graphed over time , the amount of CO ₂ produced would start at 0 , fairly quickly rise to its maximum ( as the yeast , etc. come back from dormancy ) , then slowly decrease , eventually to 0 ( as they run out of food and/or are overwhelmed by byproducts such as alcohol ) . The amount of gas escaping from the dough also changes over time . It must obviously start at 0 , and probably increases over time ( after all , there is more to escape ) , and eventually of course its all escaped and thus it must be 0 again , but I 'm not sure of its exact shape . So , a diagram : That 's the basic physics of the system . At some point , the bread must fall . ( Well , maybe in a 0-g environment it would shrink instead of fall , but ... ) How the Environment Matters The microorganisms are very sensitive to fairly small changes in their environment . In particular : Temperature . If your kitchen is 70 ° F and the author 's is 80 ° F , it could easily take twice as long . The lower the temperature , the slow the microorganisms go ( up to a point , once it gets too hot , they 're not happy either ) . Hydration . If your bread dough is lower hydration ( drier ) than the author 's , it 'll be slowed down again . The recipe is written in volume measures ( cups ) , as you know flour packs down . That leads to huge variations in how two different people measure it . Make sure to measure it how the author says to ( hopefully it specified somewhere in the book ) . Scoop-and-sweep vs. sift-and-sweep can easily be 25 % different . Preferably , spend $ 25 on a kitchen scale , and do your baking by weight . Salinity . Salt slows down yeast . If you happened to substitute table salt for kosher salt , and still measured out 1 1/2 tablespoons , you 've used more salt than the author wanted . A fair bit more . Age of your yeast . If your yeast is old ( and sometimes the packets in the store have been sitting for ages ) , it may not have the same potency as a fresh packet would . It 'll probably take longer ( but as long as it rises , it 'll likely be fine ) The times in the book could just be nonsense . Authors and editors do sometimes make mistakes . Other times they 're in a rush , and just take a guess . " Yeah , it was about two hours ... " The book could just be wrong . Also , generally speaking , slower leads to better flavor . So its not a bad thing . Summary Give it longer . Provided you 've covered it in plastic ( so it does n't dry out ) , it 'll eventually fall . Keep in mind that " fall " does n't mean it 'll return to its original size , just that it 'll fall back from its maximum size . The " or flattens on top " comment in your book is a pretty accurate description of what it looks like . Normally , while its rising , there is a dome shape on top , with the center as the highest point . When it starts falling , that dome vanishes , and may even invert ( as in , the center will be the lowest point ) . I 've made preferments that take upwards of 20 hours to fall . It will eventually happen . And when it takes forever , it 'll probably taste better .
end question
start question
Why use an acid when doing a scallops dish ?
Shellfish is usually somewhat sweet in flavour . Acidity is the natural balance to sweetness .
Lemon juice and lemon zest have a different taste . Lemon juice has obviously more water , is tart ( adds fruitiness and freshness to the dish ) and the aroma is not as intense as in the zest . If you bake a cake or cookies it 's often more desirable to use lemon zest because it does n't mess up the water-solids-ratio and what you often want is a rather sweet cake/cookie than a tart one . In contrast often the cookie glaze should be somewhat tart - you can use both zest and juice . I have the impression that the zest has a bitter component . So you have to decide if you want to have a tart component in your dish and whether the dish tolerates additional liquid . Acid is not only important in taste but also in the further " food chemistry " . As Jay pointed out , acid can make milk curdle . Also , cooking with acid in aluminium <URL> ( and probably health-wise , too , but that 's another topic ) . Someone else asked a question in the opposite direction : <URL>
While almost every fruit and berry contains right yeasts on its peel , according to <URL> article people prefer to make wine from grape due to right acidity , sugar and tannins contents . I also can assume the grape was easier to process manually at almost every stage from collecting to juicing .
Rule of thumb , dairy in the north and coconut in southern recipes . ie korma would n't have coconut Indian yogurt is made with whole milk . As with western recipes , balancing the fat for good mouth-feel is important : yogurt can be a good choice when a larger quantity of liquid is called for . Cream works great when a finishing splash smooths out flavors without watering down Acidity is also important . Does the dish need a tangy component or a softening of acids ? A dish could use both : yogurt marinade then a bit of cream to finish . For richness and a hint of sweetness along with a wonderful aroma , coconut ca n't be beat but will be a discernable flavor in most curries . Many restaurants are making use of coconut where it is less than traditional with good results .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
It sounds like the only thing you can do is use an interface disk - basically a piece of metal that is compatible with the induction cooktop , which will then transfer the heat to the espresso maker . You can also potentially use an induction-compatible pan as an interface - see <URL> . Unfortunately either way , you 'll lose the fast-response benefit of the induction cooktop , because you 'll now have to wait for the interface to heat .
Use about 2-3tbsp for a ' normal portion ' , and reduce that by the same factor as you reduce the portion for your daughter , e.g. if your daughter 's portion is half the size , use 1tbsp . Remember you can always add oil , but you ca n't take it away ( not easily anyway ) , so err on the side of caution and whack a bit more in if it seems necessary .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
If you cut it with a knife , you 'll tend to get a very smooth surface . If you tear it open , whether by hand or with the aid of a fork , it 'll tend to break on more natural places in the crumb , giving a bit rougher surface . When toasted , that tends to result in more contrast of texture - the bits sticking up will brown more and get crunchier .
Possible reasons : Horrible temperature control - this is simply a problem of cheap construction . One could theoretically build an excellent toaster oven with precise temperature control , but why would you ? Low thermal mass - If you get an oven to 400F and open it for long enough to put in food , the result is an oven at very slightly less than 400F , and which will quickly return to 400F . Do that with a toaster oven , and who knows what temperature you 'll get , or how quickly it will get to your desired temperature ( if ever , see # 1 ) . This is not a slam at toaster ovens , this is just due to them being approximately 2 % of the volume of a standard oven . Closeness to elements . It 's easy for toaster ovens interiors to vary by nearly 50F from middle to edge , simply based on distance to elements Now do n't get me wrong , I once made some kickin ' Oysters Rockefeller in a toaster oven , when I thought that they would be the difference between serving an appetizer and being allowed to serve breakfast the next morning ( wink , wink ) . If you know what you 're doing , and watch carefully and continually , a toaster oven can be an excellent source of high ( ish ) direct heat . But they are extremely difficult to control , and extremely unforgiving of errors . I ca n't think of a circumstance where a toaster oven would be my first choice of cooking tool ( and that includes microwave , campfire , plumber 's blowtorch ) .
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
According to a quick search on Google , there are two other types of vinegar served in fish and chips shops along with malt vinegar . The first ( and my best guess ) is onion vinegar -- which is white vinegar that has been used to <URL> . This is clear , but at minimum contains onions and salt , and perhaps sugar and other pickling spices . ( I should note that the recipe I linked to uses malt vinegar to pickle the onions , but you could certainly achieve the same result with white vinegar . ) The second vinegar is actually called non brewed condiment , and is n't actually vinegar . It 's ascetic acid , water , and a bit of caramel coloring . The coloring would make it brown , but it would n't have the malt flavor .
From a purist perspective , cabbage is fairly important to the recognizability of the dish by that name ( as well as the pickled matchstick-cut ginger ) . Additional ingredients beyond those two are far more substitutable ( at least from common Japanese perspective ) ; the cabbage actually contributes a fair amount of flavor to an otherwise unremarkable dish . In fact , the presence of a mere two leaves suggests to me this is a pretty small portion . So here 's a " how to avoid substituting " answer , followed by a how to substitute answer . Cabbage tends to survive a good 2 weeks in the refrigerator , so I would n't fret about it too much . It also makes a good garnish , shredded ; additionally , it was super trendy for a few years for izakaya in Japan to serve raw cabbage with miso paste ( sometimes sweetened ) . I know many shops that will even sell a half a head ( in Japan it 's easy to buy even a quarter head of cabbage ) , or you may find a small package of pre-chopped , unseasoned coleslaw mix , which typically contains cabbage and carrots . Finally , cabbage makes an excellent foundation for a vegetarian soup stock , so it 's great way of making sure any surplus does n't go to waste . The only substitutes somewhat consistent with the style of the dish are other variations of cabbage ( bok choy , napa cabbage , possibly kimchi ) or certain crispy roots like kohlrabi . But frankly , those steer the dish into a non-Japanese style of pan-fried noodles . Not that there 's anything wrong with that , but the texture and flavor differences are fairly pronounced . In a pinch , we 've made these substitutions in my home , but in that case it was more about using up available ingredients , rather than trying to find an alternative .
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
This is caused by overcooking the egg . The green color is a result of overheating causing the iron and sulfur compounds in the egg to express . You can prevent it by gently boiling the egg , and plunging it into an ice bath when it is done . This stops the carry-over heat from continuing to cook the egg .
Some cookware are ' cured ' . Mostly cast iron pots and pans . I never heard of a pizza stone being cured , so I 'm guessing this is to avoid eating soap . Other than that , I would n't know . Cast iron gets cured for two reasons : 1 . Create a non-stick layer 2 . Avoid oxidation . Neither of these reasons apply to stones ( or do they ? )
As a rule , avocado should only be frozen in <URL> . When frozen , it should be placed in an air-tight container ( such as a sealable dish or freezer bag ) with only enough room for expansion as it cools . The variable fat and water content of avocados is not well suited to freezing , and renders the thawed product <URL> , a far cry from the normal texture of avocados . The thawed puree , however , can be used as a sandwich spread , in the creation of dips ( such as guacamole ) , or any recipe where solid pieces of avocado are either not desired or not required . If a dish has avocado cooked into it -- again , non-solid form is preferable -- the freezability of the dish would be dependent on whether or not such a dish is normally freezable ( if not normally containing avocado ) .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Amongst other things , fats help moderate/impede gluten development , by not allowing water to activate the proteins . Too much yeast and your dough will be flabby and over-risen .
end question
start question
Is it possible to make low-alcohol Limoncello ?
<URL> for limoncello/lemoncello out there that use vodka . I would reference one specifically calling for vodka rather than adapting one that relies on either 150 or 190 proof Everclear . The <URL> ( does not necessarily apply to leeching of sugars , just oils ) , and a corresponding need to be sugared down more . As vodka is easier to just sip and lower in alcohol , it would likely require less simple syrup , and either more lemons , agitation , longer steeping or a combination thereof .
At its simplest , guacamole is just mashed avocado . Avocado is not particularly acidic on its own , so add whatever non-acidic ingredients you like . Consider cilantro , sour cream or whatever low or non-acid flavorings suit you . See : <URL> for more on acid and avocados .
Cookbooks describe the state as " smooth and elastic " I think this is a reasonable description . When the dough is first mixed it is very wet and sticky . As it is mixed you can see a lot of clumps and heterogeneous textures . As the proteins in the flour mix with water they form gluten and the kneading folds the elastic gluten over itself again and again making sheets . The dough becomes less sticky and wet and more springy . The texture becomes completely homogeneous . Kneading by hand it is impossible to over knead this type of dough . I have read that it is possible to over knead in a machine . In this case , supposedly , the protein sheets eventually rip up enough that you lost what you created and the dough reverts . I have kneaded in a machine for a long time and never personally seen this effect .
Yes you can mature cheeses , most hard cheeses can be matured either in the refridgerator or elsewhere . Remove from the plastic packaging , the cheese will need to breathe , but not dry out - a cardboard box , paper towels , parchment paper would work . Just be careful on the amount of moisture &amp; bacteria/mold growth . You 'll find a lot more helpful information if you search on " maturing cheeses " or " maturing cheeses at home " .
Vodka by definition is a flavorless distilled alcohol , retaining any of the organoleptic properties of the grain or potato could be considered as ruining the end product . Potatoes are a good source of starch , but brewers yeast has a limited ability to break down starch into usable fuel ; its preferred fuel sources are relatively simple sugars like mono and disaccharides . In order to efficiently convert the starch in potatoes to sugar the potatoes must first be boiled so that the starches gelate . Once gelated , the potatoes are then Mashed-in with malted barley or wheat at a temperature around 150 ˚F so that the diastatic enzymes can break those starches into the sugars that yeast likes to eat . These same steps are used when making vodka from non-malted grains such as corn ( maize ) . Boiling the potatoes also helps reduce the number of surface microbes that could end up influencing the final product . Bacteria and wild yeast strains can lead to moldy , grassy , sour , and other unpleasant flavors that may necessitate multiple distillations to remove . Making a mash of raw , peeled potato would likely yield something closer to a sourdough starter with a mix a naturally occurring yeasts and bacteria producing a small amount of alcohol along with acetic and lactic acids , as well as other compounds .
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
Fondant must be kneaded like dough , until it 's soft and smooth , before you roll it out . If you roll it out straight from the pack it will be too cold and stiff .
In a pop over-type batter , the eggs provide a few functions : Egg whites : protein for structure . Since the popover/yorkshire pudding is leavened by the protein matrix generated by the ingredients setting and capturing the steam that the wet batter is pushing out , you 're going to need something to replace the protein here . The gluten from the wheat flour is n't going to fully provide the structural integrity you need . Egg whites : Water . Egg whites are about 92 % water by weight . This helps make your dough liquid enough to produce the steam needed for the leavening . Egg yolks : fats for weakening the dough . The fats in the yolks help keep the dough springy and soft as well as provides a nice richness to the flavor . Egg yolks : emulsifiers . The lecithin in the yolk helps to bind the water phase of the batter with the fat phase of the batter so that they do n't separate . So , my suggestion would be to up the liquid in the recipe by a few tablespoons , add a little bit more fat , some powdered lecithin ( or other emulsifying agents -- you can get vegan lecithin made from mustard ) , and some soy protein powder . You might have to play with the combination of these ingredients , but by replicating and replacing the items the egg provides , you 'll be much better suited to creating the popover . Although , you 're not making yorkshire pudding FYI -- you 're making a popover . Yorkshire pudding is a popover created by using the rendered fat from a roast . A popover is the same type of bread , but made without using animal fat .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
You can freeze it , however using it will be a problem as you will have to chip out what you want on demand rather than thaw and re-freeze it . Miso paste lasts ages in the fridge as long as you put it in an airtight container to prevent it from drying out , you 're better off just doing that .
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
You can probably get away with high heat , but you need to watch the liquid content . Since you 're not cooking something that is liquid and can circulate to heat evenly , you risk burning the food or having it dry out . I ca n't see any reason this needs to cook for such a long time . Ground beef is finely divided , so cooking for extended times wo n't benefit it that much . I 'd say bring it to a boil either on high in the crock pot or on the stove , then transfer to the crockpot for 2 + hours ( as long as you have ) .
In Europe at least , the rules on advertising say : " for a product to be able to make a claim that it was low in saturated fat under EU Regulation 1924/2006 on Nutrition and Health Claims Made on Foods , it should contain no more than 1.5 g of saturated fat per 100 g of solids " ( from the <URL> )
I 'd say that 's not strictly true , mostly because no salt substitute I 've ever seen can get the same taste anyway . " Real " salt is sodium chloride ( and maybe iodine , or minor impurities if it 's sea salt ) . Most salt substitutes are partly or mostly potassium chloride . This is technically a salt ( chemically speaking ) and does have a similar salty taste , but it does n't taste quite like sodium chloride , and can be bitter or metallic-tasting . Some salt substitutes add herbs or other things to help make the potassium chloride more palatable . Sounds like your has some " regular " salt as well , if it 's got a significant sodium content . So while you are right that there 's likely a " catch , " it 's more likely to be that your salt substitute will never taste quite right , or will be bitter , and less likely that you 'll be piling loads of extra on in an effort to get the right saltiness .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
I suspect " warm " is meant to maintain temperature , rather than raise it . My crock pots are too ancient to have anything other than " high " and " low " , so I ca n't assert any real authority . However , if you reach 145F within the first hour at the highest setting , then keep it at " warm " , and test the temperature after about 30 minutes with an instant-read thermometer and it stays around 140-160F , you 'll probably be fine . Personally , I 'd test the temperature first by cooking water . If the temperature stays above 140F at low , the worst risk you 'll have is overcooking . Beans and vegetables like carrots and celery can overcook fairly easily in a crock pot , but higher collagen meats meant for stews tend to be fine when cooked for extended periods . Most crock pot recipes for stews and soups usually hold fine when at low for a full workday , although that 's presuming a somewhat 70s-era soup aesthetic , which is probable for a crockpot recipe . However , I would be inclined to attempt the recipe using the low setting rather than reducing it to warm , if you 're not going to test the temperature first . If it turns out to be overcooked , you can always puree the ingredients with a blender ... I also doubt that switching to " warm " would be dramatically less likely to overcook the food than " low " , unless it holds at a pretty stable 140F , and low ends up somewhere around 160F .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
Harms ? Meh , that 's silliness . You can make your own fizzy water if you 're so inclined . <URL> . If you really do n't want fizzy , then just substitute still water in any of the recipes in a search for <URL> . Choose recipes that use soda water , club soda or seltzer water , not ginger ale . Ginger ale adds flavor , you want recipes that stand without that flavor . EDIT : Just to be clear ; soda water , club soda or seltzer water are all just water , injected with carbon dioxide to make bubbles ( carbonation ) . So by substituting regular water for soda water , club soda or seltzer water all you 're losing is the " fizzy " . ( Club soda may have a tiny amount of something like baking soda to neutralize the decrease in PH caused by the carbonation , <URL> gets further into it , but for all practical purposes , they are all just bubble water . )
end question
start question
Why does food cooked in the microwave heat inside-out ?
Your microwave is n't exactly cooking your food from the inside out . Instead , what is happening is that some parts of your food that happen to be on the interior are being heated faster than those parts of the exterior that you observe . This sort of uneven heating is intrinsic with how microwaves work . Microwave ovens cook unevenly because a pattern of standing waves forms inside the oven chamber , and the pattern creates an array of hotspots throughout the oven 's volume . An operating frequency of 2.45 GHz will produce a wavelength of around 12.25 cm , and the regions of maximum intensity ( hotspots ) will be at half-wave points , or every 6.125 cm , but in a complex 3D pattern From <URL> So , in your microwave the waves happen to be arranged just so the inside of your casserole heats up faster than the outside . In microwave ovens that do not have a rotating carousel , this effect is even more pronounced , although even using a carousel is not a panacea . Many microwave oven recipes often include instructions to rotate and/or stir the food intermittently as a means of distributing the heat more evenly for the same reasons ; changing the position of the food within the oven has the effect of shifting the hotspots around in the food as it cooks . So , my suggestion is to try changing the position of the food in the oven over time , particularly if it 's being heated over several minutes , as that should help it heat more evenly . If you can , it is also a good idea to stir the food intermittently as well . Personally , after the microwave finishes the allotted time , I also will stir and then wait a few minutes before serving to let the hot spots naturally dissipate a bit via <URL> .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
You need 1.1 x as much water as pasta for al dente ! I measured this myself , cooking penne rigate ( in water , not sauce ) - 200g of pasta weighed 420g after being cooked and thoroughly drained . The estimate below from the nutrition facts is 1.4 x , which probably corresponds to typical American overcooked pasta - a surprisingly large difference from mine . I 'm guessing you 'll be somewhere between , maybe 1.25 x . You can also ballpark it from nutrition facts . <URL> has 31g carbs per 100g pasta , and <URL> has 75g carbs per 100g pasta . So 100g dry pasta turns into 100g * 75/31 = 242g of cooked pasta , meaning the added water was ~ 1.4 x the weight of the pasta . So for a pound of pasta , that 's 1.4 pounds or about 2 2/3 cups of water . Given people 's tastes , this might be a little past al dente , so I would personally start with maybe 1.25 cups of water then add a little more if necessary . ( I 'll also try cooking pasta normally and weighing it if I get a chance . ) Note : if you have a significantly different variety of pasta , it will obviously behave differently . This is for pasta that 's 13 % protein and 75 % carbohydrates . For the standard 2oz/56g ( dry ) serving on the package , it 'll say 7g protein and 41-42g carbohydrates . I checked Barilla , De Cecco , Ronzonni , Garofalo , Safeway store brand , Trader Joe 's store brand , and those nutrition facts , and they all matched . If you 're branching out to other styles like whole grains or egg noodles , things will obviously change , but things are very uniform in the US .
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
Starch is composed of two polymers ( linked chains ) of glucose ( sugar ) : Amylopectin and Amylose . Amylopectin is a branched and much larger molecule than Amylose . Starch molecules in a grain of rice are actually arranged in a semi-crystalline state . The granules are about 2μm in size in rice ( different plants have different granule sizes ) . Starch becomes soluble in water when heated . The granules swell and burst , the semi-crystalline state is lost , and the smaller amylose molecules leach out and form a network that holds water . Although the network of molecules holds water , it will of course have a larger volume than the volume of neatly-aligned molecules plus water . This process is called gelatinization . So you can imagine that in a dry rice grain , the strands of starch are like the fairly neatly stacked threads in my T-shirt , some shorter , some longer branched nets . As you heat it , the threads get moving and tangled up , absorbing the water , but also expanding even more in size like that big mess of lint in my clothes drier . A similar process happens with popping corn , except the water is contained in the kernel of corn and not added . It 's quite apparent to see how much larger the volume of a bowl of popped corn is compared to the small package of unpopped corn with water inside .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Microwaves specifically heat water molecules in the food . This turns them to steam , and because the air in the microwave is actually cool , the steam then condenses . There is often not proper air circulation to move the steam away from the food . Often times the outside edges of the food will not be soggy , but rather burnt , because they receive more energy and the water can totally vaporize . For better results when reheating food , do not reheat your food on " high " or the default power . Reheat it at a lower setting for longer time . For pizza specifically , I heat it in the microwave only to room temperature and then finish it in the toaster oven or in a pan .
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
Unfortunately , cornstarch does that . It does not reheat well . Potato starch is even worse , and that 's the thickener in Knorr 's Leek Soup . If you want to reheat something thickened , your best bet is to thicken it with a roux . There are other more modern thickeners ( think molecular gastronomy ) , but I do n't know much about those .
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
No , it is not safe . As soon as a pressure cooker loses pressure it is not hermetically sealed . Stock , in particular , is often used as a culture medium in petri dishes to GROW bacteria . They love the stuff . Pressure cooking or pressure cookers do not confer magical powers to food - once the pressure is gone all the regular food handling rules apply : Always refrigerate perishable food within 2 hours ( 1 hour when the temperature is above 90 ° F ) . When in doubt , throw it out . Here 's a little story about <URL> , wherein a cookbook author feeds lethal week-old stock to his family - and the expert opinion on why this is NOT ok .
You do get some reflection of microwaves off a glass or plastic cover ( <URL> ) Do n't use metal lids . Neither glass nor Plexiglass plastic absorb much of the beam . The question then becomes : Does reflection off a lid slow heating more than retaining heat in an enclosed vessel speeds it ? Anecdotal , but experience tells me that using a plate over a bowl or a casserole dish cover routinely gives hotter , more uniformly heated food . Probably true for plastic wrap too , but I do n't use that in a microwave since I had a piece of it melt on me .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Cooked foods are starting with a very low bacterial count , because the cooking process killed everything . Defrosting foods are starting from an unknown count , because they picked up some during the cooling process before they were frozen . Bacteria multiplies exponentially , so the starting point matters greatly . I 'm glad you asked for theories because I do n't have anything to back this up .
Flouring the beef does two things : It facilitates the development of a crust on the outside of the meat that is brown and flavorful ; It contributes to the development of the sauce , as the starch will dissolve off of the meat into the sauce , where it will swell at about 180 F , helping to thicken the sauce . In this particular recipe , the flour is the only source of thickening , so it is being used for both purposes , but mostly for the second , where it is essentially creating a roux as your brown the beef , because you are also cooking the flour in the olive oil . In this recipe , omitting it would give you a much thinner sauce .
There are a variety of factors at work here : Freezing foods " improperly " ( i.e. not flash-frozen , not vacuum-sealed ) causes ice crystals to form within the food , damaging the molecular structures . This is what causes many frozen leftovers to become " mushy " or change in texture . Again due to the formation of ice and the movement of water when the food is reheated , tiny particles such as spices can be lost in steam and/or runoff water . Extreme temperatures ( both hot and cold ) can denature enzymes in the food , changing their flavor , texture , etc. . As food sits , flavors in the food may blend together in different ways , causing the food to have less distinct flavors . If your freezer is n't especially clean and your food not well-sealed , your food may be absorbing other odors which are again " masking " the original flavor of your food . Hope that gives you some ideas .
I think you 're misunderstanding the claim slightly . You do not heat an already pureed soup , you puree and heat in one step . You can indeed make a hot soup from cold ingredients using certain high end blenders . The only one I 've verified this with is the vita-mix . To do this , you put your ingredients in to the blender , turn it on , and let it run about 5 minutes . The friction from the blades heats the soup while chopping the ingredients . The soup will get piping hot . Why would you do it ? It 's easy . It takes about 2 mins to get the soup really smooth , so it 's 3 more minutes to get it hot . That 's faster than you would be able to do with a stove , although maybe slower than a microwave . Is it more efficient ? I do n't know , but I doubt the difference in electrical efficiency is really sufficient to drive a choice one way or the other . In terms of cleaning , you already need to clean the blender because you pureed the soup . There 's no additional cleaning to do if you cook it there too , versus additional cleaning for stove or microwave . And the blender is easy to clean as it 's one piece ; you just add soap and water and turn it on for 30 seconds , then rinse . Personally , I do not think this is " one of the main selling points " . It 's a neat trick , and it 's useful . However , I think that it 's more interesting as an indication of the blenders power . You can use these blenders to make exceptionally smooth soup , make peanut butter , properly crush ice for frozen drinks , etc. . They do this much better than a ' normal ' home blender , but just saying ' better ' probably would n't sell a lot of these things at 4x the price , so they focus on something that the standard home blender most certainly can not do .
end question
start question
Is it safe to store hot tea in PET bottles ?
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
You should never eat freshwater fish in raw preparations . Freshwater fish are far more likely to have nasty parasites such as the <URL> , that can only be killed by cooking . There is a slew of other <URL> that can be harmful if not killed . Unless you want to end up on an episode of <URL> , stay away .
It is perfectly safe to eat ( when produced , transported , and so on under sanitary conditions , just like any other edible meat ) . In some cultures it is considered a delicacy ; in others , it is not considered appropriate to eat , but those issues of cultural norms , not of safety . The news is because it is a violation of trust ( truth in labeling ) in a cultural background where horses are not normally eaten . Personally , I might wonder what other shortcuts the purveyor had taken if they are lying about content ...
Tea needs to be kept away from heat , light , air , and moisture . The best way to store tea is at room temperature in an opaque , airtight container . Your container should not be plastic , because odors from previous uses ( even if its only been used solely for tea ) could contaminate your current tea . Do not store tea in the freezer or refrigerator . Opening and closing of the door causes rapid humidity changes that cause moisture to seep into the container and degrade the flavor of the tea . Some cheap tea containers can be found here : <URL> Personally , I would go for one with a twist or latching cover rather than a slip cover , just to ensure that it 's airtight . References <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
After looking into this much longer than a sane person should have , I 've realized that the strength of the tea does n't depend so much on the quantity of tea . Controlling the strength of tea is normally done by controlling the steeping time . As stated by paul , the best way to dilute the strength of a tea is by resteeping it . The steeping time of a tea is most determined by the coarseness of the tea leaves . Similar to garlic , finer leaves make the taste a lot stronger , whereas large , coarse leaves will be weaker . The instructions on the bag often say what 's been tried and tested . Quite often , one tea bag can make quite a lot of tea , enough for a teapot . I 'd recommend going for two tea bags only if you 're planning to go for larger than a teapot , for tea suited to drinking by itself and with added ice , or with certain weaker teas . For black tea , the common steeping seems to be 2-3 minutes . There 's little harm in steeping too short , but steeping too long will create a harsh bitter taste ( though some people may actually want that ) . For cheap , harsh , unbranded teas , 3 minutes seems to be enough unless the leaves are finely chopped . Also , as bonus knowledge , steeping tea for 45 seconds then throwing away the water and resteeping it is a great way to decaffeinate tea . Do n't shake the tea bag or stir the drink while steeping it , because it will cause the harsh stuff to enter water faster , and black tea should be steeped at 98 degrees C.
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
I do n't know the term either . I do n't think it is established baking slang , so it is bound to vary between recipes , should you find it in another one at all . But if you got it from a bread recipe , it must be because you need optimal conditions for your yeast . The optimal temperature for yeast rising is 35 ° C , with rising being too slow below that ( but it will still happen , even at 4 ° C in the fridge ! ) and not possible at 40 ° C and above , where leavening action gets too low for practical purposes ( and at some point , the yeast dies ) . This is a nice representation of the amount of CO2 produced by yeast ( which correlates well with leavening ) at different temperatures . The difference between the low effective temperature ( 25 ° C ) , the optimal temperature ( 35 ° C ) and the upper limit of the effective temperature ( 40 ° C ) is not big , so I do n't rely on my imperfect senses and always use a thermometer when making yeast dough . But you are writing that you want a " rule of thumb " , so you probably do n't have ( or do n't want to bother with ) a thermometer in your kitchen . In this case , you can still have your bread rise well . The literal thumb is a bad choice , as it is quite insensitive , but the trick our grandmas used to gauge the temperature of infant food is still valid : use your elbow . The skin of the elbow is very thin , and it will very well notice the difference between a 35 ° C liquid ( which feels roughly the same temperature as the elbow , remember that 37 ° C are normal inside the body , not on the skin outside ) and a 40 ° C liquid ( which feels too warm ) . If you were to use your fingers or the back of your hand , you would n't be able to tell the difference well enough , and will risk overshooting and killing the yeast . There are possibly other body parts which can feel the difference ( I 'd guess the tongue , if you do n't scald it daily with hot drinks ) , but hygienewise , the elbow is probably better .
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
If it 's pure silver , it 's fine . Silver is n't toxic . Well ... if you get some colloidial silver , and you dose yourself with it every day , you 'll have some disturbing symptoms . The same is true of almost all metals . Iron pills , for example , are worse , but we commonly cook with cast iron . Metallic silver is sometimes used as a chelating agent , so it can purge your body of other metals you may have absorbed . If its heirloom electroplated silver , it 's probably still fine . If it 's heirloom pewter , coated in copper , then electroplated with silver , its still fine ( because pewter does n't tarnish , so the tarnish is either silver or copper ) but I would n't eat anything acidic with it , because it 'll leech lead into your food . Note : There is no way you have pewter . That was a joke .
Please see <URL> which gives the very strict FDA guidelines for iced tea as : Iced tea sould be brewed at 195 F for 3-5 minutes . Iced tea should be stored for no longer than 8 hours . The tea brewer , storage dispenser , and faucet should be cleaned daily . while pointing out that " Tea is a beverage with little history of disease transmission . " Applying some common sense , assuming that you : Keep all of your tea equipment " impeccably clean " as Julia Child used to say Do not leave it very long at room temperature Refrigerate it thereafter given that tea does not have a huge number of nutrients to encourage pathogen growth , the risk should be minimal , although non-zero . You must assess your own tolerance for risk , but this is not an activity that is inherently highly dangerous . Finally , please note that modern refrigerators perform very well , and there is minimal heating of the other foods , even if you put a fairly large volume of tea in the refrigerator to cool . See : <URL>
It 's usually safe to eat the skins of potatoes . If there is a greenish tint under the skin , you 'll want to peel down to below the greenish bit . If you do n't , it could lead to solanine poisoning . See <URL> and <URL>
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
Freezing juice will definitely not harm the juice itself , but it might harm your container if you 're not careful . The juice can expand quite a bit during the freezing process , so make sure that your container is n't completely full before you freeze it . If the juice is already in a container ( i.e. you bought it ) then keep in mind that the container might not be designed for freezing and could explode at freezing temperatures due to the expanding volume . If you 're not sure , you might be better off transferring them to some large freezer bags . I should also mention that freezing will only slow down the enzymatic activity that degrades fruit ( and fruit juice ) over time , not stop it completely . Most fruit juice has been boiled to inactivate the enzymes , but if yours has n't , then you might notice ( bad ) changes in the colour and taste over time . If you plan to consume it within a few weeks , or if the juice already has various preservatives , then do n't worry about it , but if it 's very fresh juice and this is for long-term storage , then you might want to briefly boil it before storing if you 're not sure about its history . Keep in mind that the above will itself alter the taste , so if you plan to do it , test it on a small amount first to be sure that you can live with the " blanched " taste .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
end question
start question
Should tomatoes be stored in the fridge ?
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
This is n't at all exclusive to eggs , searing off a really cold ( fresh , not frozen ) steak will get you a tough steak . Unless the recipe depends on the behavior of a protein as refrigerated , proteins are better to work with at room temperature . Think of the egg yolk and white sort of like ice cream ; the warmer it becomes , the more distinctly the viscosity changes . Beating cold egg whites to stiff peaks is one heck of a workout :) Cold yolks are also very likely to result in ' broken ' emulsions . In your specific case , cold eggs simply wo n't incorporate into the mix in a manner that 's consistent with what the recipe previously produced . The difference would depend on the recipe , but in most cases , not subtle . Things would be denser than ideal , or just simply not hold together very well . It really depends on what you 're doing .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
I grew up in a fishing village and making shrimp paste is one thing we do for a living . The good manufacturing practices we observe keep our shrimp paste in good condition for a year and a half . I do n't even put it in a refrigerator .
Ripening of the avocado is slowed down greatly by refrigeration , so it is usually a good idea to let the avocado ripen fully at room temperature . Once it is ripe , it can be stored in the refrigerator for at least a week . This way , it is ready to use whenever you want it . Fortunately , there is a day or two when the avocado is ripe , but not too ripe , so if you check on it everyday when ripening , you will be able to save it at the correct ripeness without worrying about it too much . Putting an unripened avocado in the refrigerator may prevent it from ever ripening completely . Once cooled to near freezing ( 40F in most refrigerators ) , it seems that some avocados ( maybe it depends on the type ) do n't ripen anymore , even when removed to room temperature .
If you use your whole beans within a week it 's probably not worth storing it in the refrigerator or freezer . Coffee beans should be stored in a cool , dry place . They can last 1-3 weeks in your pantry . Ideally you should store them in an airtight opaque container . They degrade quickly in the presence of light , heat , or oxygen . If you want to store them longer , then they will last 3-4 month in the freezer . Source : <URL>
Short answer : storing food in an open can is normally safe for a short period , but inadvisable . Longer answer : There are three main issues with storing foods in an open can . They are metal oxidation , contamination , and funk . Oxidation . As commenters have observed , cans used to be made of tin , which is toxic . Modern cans are made from either steel or aluminum . If the contents of the can are acidic , cans are lined with a polymer ( plastic ) inner layer . If that layer is broken -- say , by a major dent in the can or by using a knife to scrape out contents -- then the acid can get to the metal and , over time , corrode it , and some of the now-oxidized metal will dissolve into the food . As far as we know , the oxidized metal is not toxic , but it tastes horrible . Contamination . Any open container of food can become contaminated when an airborne water droplet ( tiny -- microns wide ) containing a nasty microbe drips or settles into it . The major biological culprit here is Listeria , which can grow in any moist environment , including spaces refrigerated below 40F ( 5C ) . Also , if juices from your raw meat drips onto an upper shelf , which later gets wiped inadvertently into your container of ready-to-eat food , you are likely to get Salmonella or E coli . This risk can be mitigated if you keep your raw meats on the lowest shelf , but not eliminated . Also , it is worth noting that contamination through this pathway is a relatively rare event -- but even so , it is not worth the risk . Funk . Have you ever put an ice cube in your beverage and notice your beverage tastes strange ? The chemical compounds that give food their flavor tend to be volatile ( meaning they will readily leave the food into the surrounding air ) . Also , the mustiness of a refrigerator/freezer is due to volatile compounds produced by mold and mildew . Foods that are wet and/or fatty can be molecular velcro to these compounds .
When I freeze tomatoes , the main thing I worry about is getting the skin off . To do this , score the bottom with an X , then blanch . After cooling in ice water , pull the skin off . I have n't ever worried about the details you mention , or about cutting them up , and I have had great success .
My answer to the other question still applies : vacuum packing will not prevent most foodborne pathogens from multiplying . In the case of chicken , it will stop campylobacter ( which needs small amounts of oxygen ) but will not stop salmonella or listeria . Here 's how you can determine if thawed , previously frozen chicken is still safe to eat : When freezing , marking the freezing date on masking tape and stick it on the package When thawing , mark the thawing date similarly To determine if it 's still good : subtract the freezing date from the original expiration date , and see if it 's been that many days since you thawed it This method works because spoilage is halted by freezing ... but not reversed . Once you thaw , the process picks back up where it left off . A few days in the fridge after thawing should be fine , assuming you do n't wait until right before expiration to freeze the chicken .
Leaving any sort of sugar confection in the fridge ( as it will out of the fridge also , but to a lesser extent ) will soften the sugar after a prolonged period due to the moisture in the air . However , putting it in the fridge for a short period of time will simply speed up the cooling process as you put in your question .
The PH scale ranges from 0 - 14 with the lower numbers being more acidic than the higher number . Canned tomatoes are generally around 3.5-4 .5 on the acidic scale , in other words just above the half way point below neutral 7 . As long as your tomato based sauce is not left in your seasoned Kadai ( as Kristina rightly points out ) for a long timeframe and your kadhai is washed out immediately after use no damage to the seasoned coating should occur . Just remember to wash out your Kadai ( with warm water and a cloth ) immediately after use to preserve the seasoned coating .
It 's always a good idea to wash and " pick over " a bag of dried beans before soaking them . You never know what sort of grit or weirdness you might find . It 's a lot more difficult to find the stuff-that-isn ' t-beans once it 's all been soaking together for a long time .
Rehydrating dried fruits and vegetables in warm water is fast - mushrooms might take 15-20 minutes , though some varieties take longer , and it of course depends on how hot your water is . It would take a lot longer with cold water . You can still do it , and possibly more of the flavor will remain in the mushrooms ( since you 're not effectively cooking them slightly ) , but it 'll take hours - not the kind of thing you can do without advance planning .
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
I 've heard the same recommendation before - the idea is that if asparagus is very thick ( say , 1/2 inch or more in diameter ) , and if the bottom is much thicker than the top of the spear , then peeling it will help it to cook more evenly . If you have particularly thick asparagus that seem tough , you may want to peel the bottom section . First , chop or snap off the bottom inch or so , as it will most likely be inedibly tough . Then peel the next 2-3 inches up . You 'll want to lay the asparagus down on a flat surface to do so , so as not to snap it while peeling . I 've never had asparagus from a grocery store that was tough enough to warrant this , but it can happen with homegrown , for whatever reason .
According to <URL> , it should be stored in containers opaque to ultraviolet light for long term storage : The UV rays from sunlight , florescent lights , and other sources accelerate oxidation process . The storage container container for ghee must be opaque to filter out UV rays . Preferably ghee must be stored in a dark place I was unable to find credible sources with more detailed information that indicate exactly how this affects storage life . In fact , it was hard to find any references at all -- most were far more concerned with keeping it from being exposed to air ( oxygen ) . However , as it is such an easy thing to arrange -- just put the jar in a cabinet for example , or use an amber glass jar -- that it seems worth doing . My guess is that in practice , unless you are using your ghee very slowly , or have an extraordinarily large amount , that it makes very little difference , but again its easy , so why not ? I did find lots of references to using <URL> -- this is the power of Google ! :-)
For a 30 min marinade , no , you do n't have to put it in the fridge . In fact , many recipes will call for removing thick beef cuts from the fridge 20-60 min before cooking , to let the meat come up to room temperature . That being said , there has been some <URL> , and the general concensus is that cooking a cold steak gives better results . <URL> , although it required freezing to ensure you did n't develop surface ice crystals , and cooking in more oil than typical .
I regularly store chopped onion in my refrigerator ( or at least halves &amp; quarters ) . I either use tight-sealing plastic containers or zip-top bags . You may want to double-bag in zip-tops to be sure to avoid a smell . One problem you may be having is onion-ness getting on the outside of the container . Be sure the outside is all clean and dry - no point in having a nicely sealed packet of onion when the outside can get all stinky anyway .
If it 's raw , stick with the best-before date on the label . If cooked , you have at least <URL> , regardless of whether it 's pork , veal , or regular beef .
It 's been a while since I made sushi but 2 tablespoons does sound a little on the ridiculous side . Various other recipes use similar amounts ( to each other ) : <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 4 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tbsp kosher salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 2 tbsp sugar ) <URL> : 1 tsp salt ( for 1/2 cup vinegar and 1/2 cup sugar ) <URL> : 1/2 tsp salt ( for 2 tbsp vinegar and 1 tbsp sugar ) In fact , although sushi rice recipes tend to vary significantly with respect to the proportions of rice , vinegar , and sugar , they are all remarkably consistent on the amount of salt . The Alton Brown recipe calls for a tablespoon , but 1 tbsp of kosher salt is in fact equivalent to 1-2 tsp of table or sea salt . Even on the Epicurious recipe , the 1/2 tsp is only for 1 cup of rice - you 'd double it to the same 1 tsp for the standard 2 cups . I assume that the recipe you 're looking at must have meant 2 tsp and not tbsp , but I think even that is too much ; I would stick to the 1 tsp used in almost every sushi rice recipe I 've ever seen .
end question
start question
Can I use rhubarb without tons of sugar ?
All Recipies has an ' <URL> ' form , where you can specify ingredients that you want , and ones you do n't want . So searching for rhubarb without sugar got me 10 results ... thwith most using some other form of sweeteners . For the few that did n't : Rhubarb Wild Rice Pilaf ( 2 cups rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb Salsa ( 2c . rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb and Buckwheat ( not sure what this is ; 1/2 c. rhubarb , 1 tsp honey ) Rhubarb Rumble Pie ( not sure on sugar ratio ... comes from pudding &amp; jello mixes ) Rhubarb Smoothie ( not sure on sugar ration ... comes from fruit and vanilla yogurt )
No , you ca n't . You should always assume glass is not safe to use on the stovetop . Essentially none of it is , and while there are a very few exceptions , they 'll say so explicitly . ( For example <URL> says stovetop-safe in the description . ) That bowl is nothing special , definitely not stovetop-safe - it 'd shatter under the thermal stress . If you look carefully on the packaging , you might even find a warning that 's not for use on the stovetop .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
I wo n't claim that this is universal , and I probably would n't try it with scotch bonnets or ghost peppers , but this is what I do with poblanos , seranos , jalapenos , and the like : Treat them like any other vegetable when you prep , using good knife skills , and a well sharpened knife -- good skills minimize how much you touch the product anyway . Do n't touch your eyes or face or anything you do n't have to . When you are done , wash your hands in soapy water . Here is how I would dice a jalapeno ( I like the red ones the best ) or similar small pepper . For this , I would use a paring knife . For a larger pepper , like a poblano , I would use chef knife or a santuko : Cut off the stem end so only the fleshy part of the pepper remains . It will be a little cone . Optionally , cut a tiny part of the tip , to make it easier to separate the flesh , but it is not absolutely required . Cut a a slit into the side of the pepper through the flesh and into the cavity ... then ... continuing the same motion ... ... turn your knife parallel to the flesh , and run the edge of the blade around the inside of the pod so that you are essentially peeling the skin from the core of seeds and membranes . This is much easier to do than to describe in text . Discard the seeds and membranes . Unroll the pepper , skin side up , and flatten the flesh of the pepper out , so it is like a piece of paper . It may split a little when you do this , that is fine . It is easiest to flatten with the outside facing up , but easiest to cut with the outside of the skin facing the cutting board . Turn the pepper sheet over , so it is skin side down . Cut it into long , thin strips -- juliennes . Cross-cut the juliennes into dice . If you want a hotter product , and a more rustic one , with a small pepper , you can simply : Cut of the stem end . Slice the remaining pepper into circles or coins , thinly . If you want very hot dice , you can then : Pile up the coins , and chop through them several times in the standard rocking motion with a chef 's knife .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
You are asking a surprisingly lot of questions . First , to deal with this question , you need to understand " creaming " . So look <URL> and <URL> . Nothing " creams " as dramatically as granulated sugar with room temperature butter . Those particular ingredients are special for that . Brown sugar does n't accomplish nearly the creaming effect of granulated sugar , but combined with granulated sugar the combination is greater than the sum of its parts . In other words , a 50/50 mix of brown and granulated sugar can achieve nearly the leavening effect of granulated sugar only with room temperature butter . The sweetness of brown and regular sugar are pretty much equal . In the US and I think almost everywhere else , brown sugar is just granulated sugar with molasses added . Brown sugar adds the molasses flavor , and not surprisingly , some browning . To use non-sugar sweeteners , choose recipes that do n't call for <URL> , they simply wo n't work right . If you want to use a sweetener other than sugar , pick a recipe with a fat that is unsaturated ( liquid at room temperature ) , or melted butter . Also , be sure that your sweetener of choice will maintain its sweetness if baked .
In all honesty , I think that apple juice is just a euphemistic way of saying sugar-water . The braising happens due to the sugar content mostly , which is why it does n't really matter what type of juice it is ( citrus excluded ) . The flavour of the apple juice will be almost completely lost during cooking , so you do n't need to worry about it too much .
You just add any vanilla-tasting product to your coffee . It does n't have to be a sugared " coffee flavor " . The best option should be plain vanilla extract . Then you have synthetic vanilin , which comes as a white powder or in tiny vials of propylene-glycol solution . As it is very concentrated , it ends up being much cheaper than the extract , but its smell is nowhere as rich as that of real vanilla extract . I suppose that you could also use real vanilla pods . I would cut off a piece , cut it open , and place it within the ground coffee during brewing ( if you think it will interfere too much , you can also just scratch out the seeds and use them , but you will be throwing out lots of vanilla that way ) . I have never done it , so I do n't know how big a piece you will need for the taste to be reasonably strong . I suspect that using vanilla extract will be more economical , as vanilla usually needs time to give off aroma , and the short espresso brewing time , even with the pressure , will need a fairly large chunk to make a difference in taste . Still , the pressure-brewed vanilla will have a different taste profile than the alcohol-dissolved vanilla extract , so if you are not happy with the taste the extract gives , this is one more method to try out .
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
You can certainly use a Dutch oven ( DO ) for cooking sauce . A good DO is probably one of the most versatile pieces of equipment in the kitchen . It cooks , it bakes , it even fries ! It will certainly make sauce and the high sides will even help prevent splatters . I would n't worry about the lack of a long handle , the weight of the DO will keep it stable . If anything , the weight is its primary fault . A good DO is also a heavy DO . It can be a bit daunting to lug out every time . Since you mentioned Le Creuset , I 'm assuming you 're talking about enameled cast iron - not ' normal ' cast iron . And hence have n't addressed that you certain sauces and such may not be well suited to ' normal ' cast iron , but enameled is fine all around . Can you use a enameled Dutch oven for sauces ? Absolutely . Should you ? There are less weighty options , but at the end of the day it will make the same sauce .
You could use sugar substitutes but you should take care to use one that is heat stable . Sugar Substitute with Stevia as main ingredient can be used but you need to inquire to what ratios you would need to use your specific brand with . Acesulfame Potassium is heat stable but is 200 times sweeter than regular sugar . The general rule of thumb I was taught is 1 gram per quarter cup of sugar . Sucralose : Granulated sucralose can be used as an equal-volume substitute for sugar . ( Raw sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar , so you 'd use less , but the granulated form contains fillers to bring it up to the normal volume . ) There may be some considerations in making ice cream with this as when using this for baking the baking process is accelerated to a certain degree . Be careful with this one . Saccharin and Aspartame should be avoided because they are heat sensitive . Other more natural sugar substitutes include honey , fruit juice concentrates and refined fructose .
It 's interesting that this is your experience , since " common knowledge " is the white pepper is milder than black . White pepper is the dried ripe fruit of the pepper Piper Nigrum , and the black is the unripe , cured and dried fruit . Black is usually hotter than white , but generally they are considered to be interchangeable , with the white being used in sauces and in cream dishes for a better look ( no black specks ) . Since this pepper is so strong for some reason , I would advise that you only use it in dishes that rely on the pepper flavor to the exclusion of others , say steak au poivre , or pepper pot , or salt and pepper scallops . Other than that you can cut back on the amount or grind it now and let it sit around for a while ... pepper has its strongest , best flavor when freshly ground ; it kills me to suggest that , but I 'm trying to answer your question . If it were mine , I would try to figure out a dish that this pepper would truly enhance , as I suggested .
Pasta ( by which I infer you mean dried , Italian-style semolina pasta ) is edible raw , right out of the package . It is not , however , palatable . If you soak it in water , it will hydrate and soften over time , but that is not the same as cooking it . True cooking also cooks the proteins and takes away that raw starchy taste . There is no way to achieve that without the application of some heat above about 180 F for at least a few minutes . See also : <URL> Note that in one of the answers to that question , Rumtscho points out that supermarket ramen noodles are precooked ( they are generally par-fried , sometimes par-baked ) and are much more palatable eaten straight from the package , or simply soaked .
Here , in Turkey , cabbage dolma is also very popular . I have no clue about cooking , but probably you may need to cook it differently .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
Making a cake before around 1910 always required at least an hour of work beating sugar into butter : this incorporated air bubbles into the mixture . But since then , there have been a number of remarkable changes to the process . The first was the arrival of modern cake shortening , which has smaller fat crystals that trap small air bubbles , which stay in the batter . They also have a much wider temperature range at which it has the right solidity , and these days manufacturers fill shortening with preformed bubbles of nitrogen ( around 10 % of the volume ) and up to 3 % of the shortening weight is replaced by bubble-stabilizing emulsifiers . The second major innovation was the arrival of cake flour : a soft flour low in gluten that is very finely milled ; in the US it is strongly bleached with chlorine , which also lightens the end result by various means , but the EU and UK disallow the bleaching step , so manufacturers there use different processes such as heat treatment . These two improvements , together of course with mechanical mixers , have lead to not only less work when making cakes but also lighter , more fluffy end results , and the ability to use more sugar without the batter becoming to heavy . Finally , because the mixing process fills the batter with bubbles , cake recipes typically either for no chemical leavening or for less than other batter recipes do . ( All of this information is extracted from pages 555-557 of the excellent On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee . ) So the answer to your question seems to be : mass-produced cake mixes use the incredible advances in food technology of the twentieth century in general , not so much chemical leavening specifically .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
end question
start question
What are ' boiling potatoes ' ?
This most likely means waxy potatoes , typically white or red . In some contexts it might also mean you want small ones so that you can boil and serve them whole , but it does n't look like that 's the case here . There are two main kinds of potatoes , starchy and waxy . Starchy ones ( like russets ) cook up fluffy and dry , desirable for things like baked potatoes and fluffy mashed potatoes , but are prone to disintegrating when boiled or mixed into potato salad , and can get waterlogged from over-boiling . Waxy ones ( like most red and white potatoes ) on the other hand stay relatively firm , making them good for boiling . So " boiling potatoes " meaning " potatoes for boiling " would indicate waxy potatoes , and that 's consistent with the recipes you linked to . For aloo gobi , you want firm ones so they do n't fall apart when you mix it all up . For curries and stews , you do n't want them to get waterlogged or fall apart . Fries are much easier to handle if they 're not falling apart ! And two of the recipes even mentioned red and white potatoes .
No peeling is needed . A good wash and proper cooking will handle all of your food safety needs .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
It depends on what you mean by " yam " . Once upon a time , in the deep south of the US , there was a tuber known as the <URL> , and it was good . And then one particular grower decided to sell theirs under the trade name " yam " to get better marketing recognition . This lead to some folks in the US calling sweet potatoes by the name yam , especially in the context of candied yams ( a sweet casserole of spiced sweet potato ) . So if the word " yam " is being used to mean a variety of sweet potato , then they are culinary identical . Sweet potatoes of all variety are , well , potato sized ( or a bit bigger than the average potato ) , and their color can range from whitish through yellow , orangish or reddish . Most grocery store varieties are fairly orange in color . True <URL> originate from Africa , and are far more starchy and fibrous than sweet potatoes , no matter what they are called , and are used in entirely different ways . They can be very large , football to basketball sized or larger . There are also a tremendous variety of true yams .
It 's actually pretty straight forward and fairly easy to do . Build a fire . You are building a cooking fire , not a warm hands and look pretty fire . I use a <URL> . Wait for it to burn down so there are plenty of white coals . You do n't want lots of " fire " . Fire is pretty to look at , but more unpredictable to cook in then hot white coals . While the fire is burning down , wash and prep your potatoes to bake as you would normally . Wrap them tightly in tin foil . Once the fire is burned down to hot , white coals , toss the potatoes directly onto the coals . Wait until cooked ( roughly 40 minutes for an average sized potato , on an average fire , adjust accordingly ) . If you have a shovel or something , put some coals on to the actual potato as well , so you 're completely surrounding it . It 'll speed it up . If you do n't have anything handy to handle coals , make sure you flip them half way . Remove carefully and enjoy . The moisture of a potato , will allow it to cook without burning . Just make sure you wrap them with no exposed areas , in order to trap the steam .
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
Ah , so the question is " Why does boiling the tofu change its texture ? " . Answer : it does n't . Try doing this recipe without boiling the tofu , I think you will find it is pretty much the same . I think if the boiling serves any purpose at all it is to remove any last remnant of taste from the tofu . I do n't mash tofu often , but when I do , I never boil it and I 've never had a problem .
Let 's start with the assumption that Safety is never in the balance . Safety has to be taken into account for any method that we use and that means that we want to keep any food that is time and temperature sensitive out of the danger zone . The danger zone is the temperature range from 40 degrees F to 140 degrees F . If you have plenty of time , letting the turkey defrost in the refrigerator is safest and easiest , since there is little that you have to do . The turkey is always out of the danger zone and all you have to do is put it in the refrigerator . However , it can take a very long time , 24 hours for each 5 pounds of turkey weight ... 4 days for a 20 pound turkey . Assuming you have n't planned that far ahead , the other safe method is to defrost in the sink with cold running water . The water does n't need to be pouring out , just a steady stream so the water turns over regularly . Water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the turkey will defrost more rapidly than in the refrigerator . The danger zone is why you do n't want to defrost the turkey using warm water , or just sitting on the counter . In either of those cases , the outside meat is warmed into the danger zone before the inside defrosts , so you have some of the meat ( the part that is most likely to have come into contact with contaminants ) in a temperature range that promotes bacterial growth .
This is perfectly normal for waxy potatoes ; their skins are soft and easily scraped off , especially if freshly harvested and handled roughly . I saw it just the other day with a batch of new potatoes fresh from the CSA . The potatoes were just fine . If you see this with thick-skinned , starchy potatoes it may be a sign of fungus , especially if accompanied by dried out or roughened patches . Green colors in the peel are also a problem , because they indicate exposure to light and an elevated level of the toxin solanine . Solanine can cause upset digestion and headaches if consumed in quantity . Do n't eat potatoes that are very green .
Good Answer Hobodave ... tacking onto that : Most southern U.S. brands ( White Lily , Martha White ) of all-purpose flour are bleached because southerners tend to make more quick breads ( biscuits , cornbread , hoecakes , pancakes , as well as cakes , pie crusts , cobblers ) where tenderness is desired . White Lily has just started producing unbleached all-purpose flour as well . Brands from the Northeast ( King Arthur ) and midwest are usually unbleached because those regions tend to make more yeast breads and the additional gluten forming capability of unbleached flour produces better results . National U.S. brands ( Pillsbury/Gold Medal ) often produce both types or stick with unbleached . Cake flour is always bleached ( usually chlorine gas ) . More information on differences in types of flour can be found in my article titled <URL>
Throw them away . I would not expect potatoes to go black in the dehydration process , and although they may be safe to eat I would not expect them to be palatable , or inviting in any way . You can not be sure they are n't toxic , and you would n't put them on a guest 's plate , so chuck them .
According to <URL> , which is one of the few references I could find : They are essentially fully cooked beans that have then been dehydrated for long term storage . Therefore , they will " cook " again quickly as they are already cooked , and are essentially just being rehydrated . If you listen to the video ( it is mostly narration , and a few still pictures , and are very , very , very patient in listening ) , the narrator will describe how she creates them which comes down to : Pre-soak the beans Pressure cook them Dehydrate them Note that the first two steps are probably not that critical -- you could cook the beans by whichever method you prefer .
Mineral oil is your friend As you said , Ana , the biggest enemy of a clean -- and warp-free -- wood cutting board is moisture penetration . The first trick to fight this is to wipe down your cutting board fairly often with mineral oil or other food-safe wood treatment . This helps with cleaning as it prevents liquids and bacteria from penetrating into the wood . It also has the nice effect of helping to keep flavors from embedding and transferring to other foods . Scrape it . Scrape it good . The second trick is to use a sturdy steel scraper to clean the surface as you go , scraping out excess moisture after each round of cutting before it can penetrate too deeply into the wood . This is something you 'll especially want to do with an end-grain cutting block , which is much more absorbent than other grains . Soap &amp; water is ( mostly ) all you need When I 'm done , I usually wash with light soap &amp; hot water on the board , followed by a good hard scrape with the steel scraper , so I have a nice dry , fresh surface for the next use . And store that board on its edge , not flat ! This promotes even drying and prevents warping . It 's science The smart people at America 's Test Kitchen used science n ' stuff and found that <URL> at killing bacteria , though the USDA recommends an application of bleach dilute to really sanitize that bad boy . Maintained board = clean board Notable board maker , Boos , has a good list of <URL> , including these related to cleaning : Periodically ( once every 3-4 weeks , depending upon the use and household conditions ) , apply an even coat of Boos ® Mystery Oil and Boos Block ® Board Cream to all surfaces of your wood cutting board . The Boos ® Mystery Oil acts as a shampoo that contains oils and minerals that penetrates through the wood surface to increase its longevity . Next , you will want to use the Boos Block ® Board Cream , that acts as the conditioner , to seal the top coating of the wood surface . DO NOT allow moisture of any type to stand on the cutting board for long periods of time . Do n't let fresh , wet meats lay on the board longer than necessary . Brine , water and blood contain much moisture , which soaks into the wood , causing the cutting board to expand , the wood to soften , and affects the strength , of the glued joints . Use a good steel scraper or spatula several times a day , as necessary , to keep the cutting surface clean and sanitary . Scraping the surfaces will remove 75 % of the moisture . Do not use a steel brush on the cutting surface of your board . DO NOT cut fish or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board , unless you have thoroughly followed the instructions in step # 1 . The moisture barrier must be intact prior to cutting any type of fish , seafood , or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board . ALWAYS CLEAN THE CUTTING BOARD SURFACE THOROUGHLY AFTER CUTTING FISH OR FOWL ON THE WORK SURFACE . Sanitize cutting board by wiping all surfaces down with mild dish soap and water . Dry throughly . DO NOT wash your wood cutting board with harsh detergents of any type . DO NOT wash your butcher 's tools on your cutting board surface . DO NOT put Boos Block ® wood cutting boards into dishwasher . Happy chopping !
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
Assuming by your wording , you do n't have a bbq on a balcony . Another alternative to the broiler , is a blow torch to get the nice charing . :-) <URL>
Costs to consider when making jam : One-Time Costs Pressure canner Water-bath canner Large pot for making jam in Strainer ( can use a colander-type item or something like a Squeez-o ) Jar rack that goes inside the canner Jar lifter Funnel Jars Freezer-safe containers Jar rings Recurring Costs Jar lids Fruit ( you can often get pretty cheap fruit in bulk from an orchard ) Pectin Sugar Spices Energy usage ( stove ) Compare costs for freezer jam ( no canner required ) , pressure-canned jam ( pressure canners are expensive ) , and water-bath canned jam . Also compare for recipes that do vs do not contain pectin . If you can get a lot of the one-time cost items free ( from grandma 's attic , most likely ) , and if you can get the recurring cost items on sale ( or from your own garden ) , then you can probably come close to commercially priced jam . Personally , here 's what I look at : A ) The cost of the item I would normally buy at the store - generic , cheap brand . Let 's call that price X. B ) The cost of the item I wish I could buy at the store - the really good stuff . That price is usually about 2x to 3x . Then , my goal is to be cheaper than 2x . Another Cost Consideration If you give homemade jam as holiday gifts , spending less than you otherwise would on a gift , there 's additional savings for you .
The following are sugar substitutes that are not considered " artificial sweetners . " The links provide interesting information that should be pondered before using any of them . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> For actual unrefined cane syrup or sugar ( considered healthier than sugar by those who consider less refined to equal more healthy ) , look to <URL> <URL> For artificial sweeteners , you could consider : <URL> ( you can get this in quantities suitable for baking at most grocery stores ) If you 're looking to lower your sugar , before going to artificial sweeteners do n't discount just teaching yourself a lower sugar diet by eating smaller portions of sweets and making your own sweets with a lower sugar content .
This depends on the time you need to bring it to boil ( water evaporates long before it starts boiling ) , the surface area of the water , and your definition of " negligible " . Best test it with your own kettle . My kettle needed 2.5 minutes for boiling it , and lost 11 g out of 560 , not quite half an ounce . It will probably lose some more while cooling . If you use an open kettle , a very wide kettle , or heat the kettle slowly , you will lose more .
Add to this answer ... Who and where , what it tastes like , how it differs , how it 's used in cooking ... Human Where : Worldwide Uses : Nursing Cow Where : Most common source of dairy worldwide Uses : All dairy products ( milk , cheese , yogurt , etc. ) Goat Where : India , Bangladesh , Africa , France , common across Europe . Uses : Milk , cheese Sheep Where : Across Europe Uses : Primarily cheese Camel Where : Middle East Uses : Milk Note : Camel milk can be an important source of water in extremely arid climates or survival situations . The milk can have a salty taste due to camels ' high consumption of sodium . Yak Where : South East Asia , Mongolia , Northern China , Tibet , Nepal Uses : Milk , Cheese , and butter ; localized dairy products such as dahi , paneer Water Buffalo Where : India , Parts of the Middle East , Southeast Asia , China , South America , Europe ( best known in Italy and throughout the Balkan states ) Uses : Milk , yogurt , cheese ( mozzarella and others ) , candy Note : Water Buffalos are the 2nd most common source of dairy in the world . Horse Where : Mongolia Uses : Kumis ( lightly alcoholic fermented drink ) Donkey / Ass Where : Mediterranean countries Uses : Milk , yogurt , cosmetic and medical use Reindeer / Caribou Where : Scandinavian countries , Mongolia Uses : Cheese , Butter Note : Reindeer milk is 22 % butterfat and produces extremely rich cream cheese which Lapplanders sometimes use in coffee rather than regular cream . Moose Where : Russia and Sweden Uses : Milk , limited cheese production
Clean your potatoes . Peel if desired . Slice in half , lengthways . Place flat sides down on your cutting board . Cut again in half , lengthways . This would be for very large wedges . For slightly smaller , cut in thirds , lengthways , on a 60 degree angle , from the outside of the potato to the centre line where it hits the cutting board . For even smaller , slice in half again after the second half cut .
end question
start question
Why rinse basmati rice ?
Basmati rice is supposed to flow freely though , if it clumps , you are using it against the norm and should probably stick with a stickier rice . Usually Basmati is used Pilau style , or in a Biryiani , then the grains are slightly coated in some form of fat ( oil , ghee , etc ) , so the starch you would definitely want rid of .
As the bacon cooks the meat reduces in size faster than the fat does . Since they are cut into strips this causes the fat to bunch up or even coil if the bacon is n't flipped enough . The fat will eventually reduce as well when it renders but not enough to straighten out the poor bacon .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
No . It is not general practice to add bleach to rice . The brown rice bran is removed through mechanical processes . As to whether he should continue to indulge this worry ... I 'd be more concerned about [ insert common American male problem here ] before ammonia in rice . <URL> This review has many free references in it . Should you want further peer-review reading , I can provide it .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
Coconut has a very mild flavor that is easily drowned by other things . In my experience , coconut rice does not end up tasting very strongly of coconut , although it is richer and slightly sweeter . I notice that many recipes call for salt and sugar , which are both flavor potentiators . Perhaps you could try these . At the end of the day , though , I fear you may have to use natural flavor , often falsely labeled as an " extract . " ( I have not been able to extract real coconut flavor well , and I 've never found a commercial product that does , either . ) Unfortunately , for some ingredients , this seems to be the only way to get the flavor I have come to expect from restaurants . Another such ingredient is pistachio .
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
It depends a great deal on the kind of rice you use . My father always steamed rice in a closed pot with a measured amount of water using American long grain rice . The ratio was one cup rice to two cups of water . When I got my own place I used the boiling method but chose Basmati rice , as is commonly used in india . This rice has a longer grain and holds its shape after cooking . I tried the boiling method with American long grain rice and found it also worked well . There is no need to measure the water as you cook by timer and taste the rice before draining . It 's something similar to how you might cook pasta . Contrary to what ElendilTheTall said in his answer , when boiling rice you do not have to make careful measurements of rice an water . You put in enough rice for how ever many people and an excess of water . Too much water . You cook the rice in an open pan , so you can see it . When the rice has cooked long enough , you pick out a few grains on your fork and taste them . If they are just soft enough , not too soft , then you quickly drain the water in a sieve or colander and serve . Timing is crucial . Now , when I move to China , I found a very different kind on rice . It was shorter grained and required several washes before could be cooked . This rice did n't boil well . The unless really well washed , the rice powder in the water turns in into something reassembling wall paper paste . Instead the steaming method must be used . To steam you need to carefully measure the rice and water to get the correct ration . You put on the heat and cover . When the rice has boiled almost dry , you take it off the heat and serve .
You could switch to a recipe that uses all of the rice , instead of just infusing it . Here is an example : <URL> .
I never boil rice noodles . Just soak them in cold water for about an hour .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
You can wait as long as you need to between pre-cook ( that 's the simmering ) and finish ( the steaming ) , it 's how things work in restaurants . The steaming time will only go up if you let the temperature drop appreciably . Even so , you should n't need more than an extra minute or so . Steaming is pretty benign to rice . As far as the safety concerns ... if you keep the temperature above 135 F , you are out of the danger zone , and you can hold there forever . The danger zone is 41 to 135 F , but the goal in cooling foods is to get it from hot to cool in 6 hours ... below 70 in two , and then 4 hours to make it below 41 ( yes , I 'm ServSafe certified ) . So your hypothetical 30-45 minutes should n't cause you a problem . But watch it if you start going long .
There are 3 main types of rice huller in use : The oldest , <URL> , takes strength , time and patience . <URL> have been around since the late 1800 's , but high speed ( 5Krpm + ) centrifuges are not consumer devices . They can be quite dangerous if not used correctly . <URL> are probably the most common type today . You do n't see many consumer friendly units around , but rubber based attachments for Corona mills are <URL> Once you get your rice dehulled , you 'll need to separate the chaff . There are lots of ways to do that , <URL>
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
I come from a culture where rice is our staple and I have a rice cooker . Here are some of the advantages from my perspective : Rice is perfect everytime -- not stuck to the bottom , not watery , not mushy and stuck together , etc. . If you make rice in a pot , and the heat is too high , it will boil and spill over creating a mess . You can switch the rice cooker on and go do other things , whereas it is dangerous to walk away from a stove . The rice cooker can be used for other things such as cooking lentils and steaming vegetables . Rice cookers are cheap .
You can combine it with practically everything , so the question is somewhat broad . So my answer is equally broad : rice pairs well with fresh tastes and acidity , or with moderately sweet components . Or you can just underline its own slightly nutty notes . Below is a list of specific examples , but it is impossible to make it exhaustive . For fresh tastes , use herbs . Summer savoury and spearmint are the classics , I never make stuffed peppers without them . But other light tasting herbs are also a good choice - lemon balm , oregano . Rosmarin is sometimes good , but somewhat overpowering , it is better for a dish where the rice is cooked together with veggies ( eggplant , zucchini ) . Beside herbs , you can try more exotic seasonings . Lemon zests are good , finelly chopped grape leaves and shoots are great . Coriander powder should give you a similar taste profile to cilantro , but it is easier to keep at hand for when a quick dinner without much planning is needed . The sweet option is also interesting ; if you do n't overdo it , it is OK to serve it as a side dish for a savoury meal . The easiest way to achieve it is to cook the rice together chopped dry fruit . Sulfured raisins are popular , the dish will be somewhat si milar to pilaf . But others work too , I especially like dried apricots because they are slightly tart . Other methods for sweetening do n't really fall into the " dry seasoing " category , but are worth mentioning . You can add fruit juice to the cooking water ( apple or other slightly sour juices are best ; this will affect the starch in the rice , causing it to cook firmer than usual ) or you can add a small amount of sweetener to the cooked rice ( prefer aromatic sweeteners lik honey or C grade maple syrup ) . Or if you prefer it spicier , mix it with a sweet chutney , like mango . If you want a subtler taste , combine the rice with nuts ( cook them together ) . Always use nuts with the brown skin removed . I have found unroasted , finely chopped nuts to work better this way . Hazelnuts and almonds are a very good choice . Para nuts also pair well with rice , but are seldom availablr blanched + chopped . This works especially well if you use the parfrying method for the rice , frying in the oil of the nut used . However , I do n't know if you can parfry rice in a rice cooker , I always make mine on the stove .
Shallots certainly are n't more popular than onions , otherwise they 'd be far more abundant and less expensive . I do cook with shallots from time to time and would describe them as most people describe them - as somewhere between the flavour of garlic and onion , but also a good deal milder/sweeter . I prefer to use them simply when I do not want the strong taste of onions . In fact , many of us are so accustomed to the harsh taste of onions that it 's actually quite a surprise to find out how much better a certain dish might taste by substituting shallots . They 're especially common in Asian cooking , I find . Very often you 're providing a lot of spice or heat from other ingredients - chilies , five spice , curry powder , etc. - and do n't want the overwhelming pungency of onions mixed in . Shallots give just a little bit of " sharpness " without much of the sulfur taste . Would I substitute them everywhere ? Absolutely not . Some recipes really do call for the pungency of onions , for example almost anything involving ground beef . But try it at least once - get yourself a bag of shallots and try substituting them for onions in a few recipes . You may be pleasantly surprised . I would say that ideal recipes to try this on , if you 're unfamiliar with shallots , are stovetop recipes calling for a relatively small amount of chopped or sliced ( not minced ) onion ; stir fries are ideal , which perhaps is why they seem to be so common in Asian cuisine . Also , as far as pricing is concerned : Locally , where a 2 lb bag of onions might cost $ 1.99 , a 1 lb bag of shallots would cost $ 1.49 , which makes them roughly 50 % more expensive , very far from an " order of magnitude . " If you meant that literally and are finding them close to 10x more expensive than onions , then you are either shopping at the wrong stores or living in an area where they are hard to find . Try an Asian grocery store if you have one ; they can usually be found for dirt cheap in those .
Quinoa . I only recently discovered it as part of doing P90X , and man , it 's so , so delicious . It 's kind of a nutty flavour that goes really well with sauces . It 's also pretty high in protein , which is good . Note that this is n't " no-carb " , though it is lower in carbs than rice . It 's important that you wash quinoa before you prepare it . Otherwise , it 's prepared in a very similar way , 2-1 water-to-quinoa , boiled and simmered .
end question
start question
How can I use a large quantity of raw almonds all at once ?
Some things that are made almost entirely of almonds ( plus elbow grease ) , and thus will use up a large quantity of almonds : Almond butter ( need to add : nothing . Well , salt , if you like . ) Almond milk ( need to add : water ) And then there are more dessert recipes than you can shake a stick at , but they take increasing amounts of other ingredients , and thus decreasing amounts of almonds . Marzipan ( need to add : sugar , rosewater ) Macarons ( need to add : sugar , eggs , some sort of icing/frosting ) Almond torte ( ditto ) Almond brittle ( need to add : sugar , corn syrup , butter , salt ) Almond pasta [ variation on Hungarian dióstészta ] ( need to add : cooked pasta of your choice [ e.g. broken-up fettuccine or small egg noodles ] , sweetening of your choice [ sugar or honey or even artificial sweeteners will all work ] )
You 've pretty much answered your own question . Put the PB in a blender , drizzle in a little peanut oil , blitz and season to taste with salt and a little sugar if you want it . I 'd add them all slowly : you can always add , you ca n't take away .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
According to <URL> : Jaggery is not as sweet as white sugar , so when substituting white sugar for Jaggery use about 1/3 less . When swapping Jaggery in for sugar , use anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 more Jaggery than was called for of sugar ( if you want to keep the recipe as sweet as it was . ) That meshes with my limited experience too , so if the jaggery is ground in such a way that it will measure like the sugar you are replacing , and you are replacing 1TBS of sugar , then you would want to use somewhere in the neighborhood of 1TBS plus 1tsp of jaggery . If precision is needed ( which of course does n't really apply here , but bear with me ) consider that the way jaggery and sugar measures volumetrically are unlikely to really be identical . It would be better to measure by weight , or if there is liquid in the recipe , by water displacement .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
As long as you monitor each cake for doneness individually , there is no reason not to bake them together -- assuming they both need the same temperature . If the sizes are radically different ( in terms of the thinnest dimension , which is usually the depth ) you may need to adjust temperature to control crust formation during the time it takes the cakes through to the center . If the cakes are close in depth , they should bake in approximately equal times . You may wish to use cake strips or aluminum foil to protect the thing easily burned permiter of a hemispherical cake . Note that 150 C ( 300 F ) is an atypically low temperature for baking a cake . See related : <URL>
Using both is fine . I would reserve some of the green end to sprinkle on top for presentation . The white part is stronger so you may want to add it a little at a time .
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
One of the most popular things I 've seen sage used for is tea . You just dry the leaves , steep as you would regular tea leaves ( personally I like it with ginger root if I have some handy ) , and then maybe a little honey or lemon . Sage is anti-bacterial , which is a nice bonus . Meat-wise , I like to use sage with pork chops , either as part of a marinade or just chopped and rubbed onto the pork and then grilled . Sage also goes great with chicken . Roll the sage in your hands to release the oils , then either chop very finely or mash with a mortar and pestle . Mix with a little salt and rub onto chicken breasts , and sautee in oil or butter ( or grill it ) . Veggie-wise , I think it pairs very well with sliced , sauteed carrots . It goes very well with potatoes , try sweating some onion in a pan with a little oil or butter , adding some potato slices , and right before they 're ready add fresh chopped sage . It 's also a great ingredient in stuffing , dried or fresh . I had sage-laced cornbread once , it was pretty delicious . Was n't there for the making of , so not sure if there was any special preparation needed , but the end result was nice . In fact , a friend of mine a while back who was a baker loved using sage in various breads , but baking is one of my weak spots so I ca n't really give you any specifics other than " this combination works , check Google for recipes " :) At one point , I heard someone refer to what they called " sage fritters " , which were basically sage dredged in seasoned flour and egg , then quickly fried in oil . I did a quick search to find the source , and did n't see it , but did come across a very interesting idea : <URL> ( these are much more of a true fritter than what I first mentioned ) . If you get tired of it while it 's fresh and you 're running around like a lunatic trying to find uses for it , there 's always freezing . I freeze or dry any large quantities of herbs at the end of the summer , there are a few methods available . You can reference <URL> , I feel like there 's a better one about specifically freezing herbs on this site but I ca n't find it right now . The short of it is , some people have good luck freezing whole leaves as they are , some people prefer to chop them or put them in the food processor with some oil or stock , and freeze into cubes . Both methods have advantages and disadvantages . Alton Brown has a great method for drying described in <URL> . Essentially , you layer an air filter ( like you 'd use in your central air unit ) with an herb . Place another filter on top , layer it again . Continue as much as you want , then strap them all to a box fan . Instead of weeks to months , you should have dried herbs in a couple days , max . You can <URL> , skip to about 2:30 in . Bonus : the same episode describes his method of freezing herbs , that 's about 1:00 in on the same link . Speaking of Alton Brown , he recommends herb vinegar - you 'll find how he makes it on the ( text transcript ) link in this paragraph . There are also a TON of medicinal uses and has been used for thousands of years for various remedies . Since this is a cooking site I 'm hesitant to list them all ( there are a lot ) , but you can read more about the most popular ones <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . This is non-culinary , but you can use it to " smudge " , which is often tied to cleansing rites , but can also be considered just a simple incense/potpourri . I had a hippie friend once whose house always smelled like smoldering sage . More details can be found <URL> . Can you tell I grow sage and generally have an abundance at the end of the season ?
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
No , it 's not unusual at all . See <URL> for examples where nuoc-mam is used to marinate chicken , or just type nuoc mam marinade in Google :) There are a lot of examples , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or even <URL> marinated ( as well as <URL> , of course ) with nuoc-mam ( and most of the time lemongrass ) , and a fair share of them are recipes by ' natives ' from South-East Asia , not only fusion food addicts ( even if <URL> ! ) . Some salads like goi tom or goi ga also involve nuoc mam marinade .
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
Follow these steps and watch very carefully ... Set your oven on Broil ( high ) and put your rack on the top shelf . Let the oven get nice and hot ( 3-7 minutes ) . Fill an oven safe dish with crushed ice and water and place your dishes into the ice/water bath . The cold bath should keep the custard from cooking , but the sugar on top will heat till it caramelizes . It 'll only take 3-4mins .
It depends on what kind of settings your crock pot has . A low simmer on the stove is probably equivalent to something fairly low on your slow cooker , though . If all you have is warm , low , and high , you want low - in some cases it might be too hot , though . You 're aiming for just short of boiling , so a setting that gets you a few bubbles now and then is good . More than that and you 're cooking a bit vigorously , and on a " warm " setting you likely are n't heating it enough to cook properly and stay safe . If you have some kind of continuous settings , you can possibly adjust to get exactly where you want !
I think you mean " Can brussels sprouts be eaten raw ? " as in without cooking . The short answer is yes , though they will be a lot like little cabbages . You do n't need to boil them , either . I like to sauté them in butter in a skillet , then cover them , and let them steam a bit ; I serve them with salt and pepper . Cook them until they are bright green , but not too long to make them grayish green .
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
Roux Method The advantages of the roux method : It can be prepared in advance The raw flour taste is cooked out when the roux is prepared , so the sauce is ready as soon as it is thickened ; this also makes it easier to add more roux to adjust the thickness of the sauce . It actually requires less supervision . You are actually being overly fussy with your roux based sauce . You could add all of the milk at once , although starting with one smaller batch just to dissolve the roux is a good idea . The butter coats the flour particles , making lumping quite unlikely Can be browned for additional flavor at the cost of thickening power It also adds oil or butter to the recipe , which may or may not be an advantage . Slurry Method The advantages of the slurry method ( which is what the second method is , although it is more typically done with water or stock than milk are ) : It is fast and convenient , if you do n't have roux prepared ahead No oil or butter is required , so it does n't have to be accounted for in the recipe . Disadvantages : It is easier to get lumping if you do n't thoroughly whisk the slurry before heating It must be brought to the boil for at least a couple of minutes to eliminate the raw flour taste , and harder to adjust thickness . Harder to prepare ahead Conclusion Use whichever you are comfortable with . For fine sauces , roux based may be superior ( and certainly more buttery ) , but you can have excellent outcomes with a slurry . For casual cooking , I tend to use a slurry , saving roux for more formal dinners and fancier dishes like Thanksgiving gravy .
Some things that are made almost entirely of almonds ( plus elbow grease ) , and thus will use up a large quantity of almonds : Almond butter ( need to add : nothing . Well , salt , if you like . ) Almond milk ( need to add : water ) And then there are more dessert recipes than you can shake a stick at , but they take increasing amounts of other ingredients , and thus decreasing amounts of almonds . Marzipan ( need to add : sugar , rosewater ) Macarons ( need to add : sugar , eggs , some sort of icing/frosting ) Almond torte ( ditto ) Almond brittle ( need to add : sugar , corn syrup , butter , salt ) Almond pasta [ variation on Hungarian dióstészta ] ( need to add : cooked pasta of your choice [ e.g. broken-up fettuccine or small egg noodles ] , sweetening of your choice [ sugar or honey or even artificial sweeteners will all work ] )
They 're generally good for adding some crunch , too , not just the flavor . A few things that come to mind : on top of a salad - my family does a roasted corn and black bean salad ; also probably good instead of croutons in salads where they 're a better flavor/style fit garnish on a soup - tortilla soup , sopa de elote ... as part of a breading for fish or chicken ( or anything else to bake or fry ) In general , anywhere you would use breadcrumbs , tortilla chip crumbles might find a place . If you 're afraid they 're too salty , you could always put dump them in a sieve and shake some of the really small bits out , leaving the more sizable bits of chip .
end question
start question
What to look for in a Stand Mixer ?
I 've got one of the professional series Kitchen Aids ( and my parents have the traditional version to compare and contrast ) . If money is n't a huge deal , then getting the professional series comes with a more powerful motor and a heavier base that will stop the mixer from " walking " around the counter if you put dough or something dense in the mixer . One odd thing that I did n't expect is that the mixer is really inconvenient for small things . It can whip up like a triple batch of whipped potatoes , but it has the darnest time whipping up a little bit of whip cream or a little merangue . Kitchen Aide 's attachments are pretty rock solid ... One of our more " fun " attachments that we have is the ice cream bowl . Freeze the bowl , dump the ingredients and set the paddle on low . Again , with the professional model , the motor is strong enough to churn a bit longer than traditional other ice cream churns ... IMO , if you 're a big dough cook , go w / the stronger model , otherwise the smaller models should be great . EDIT In an interesting note , my sister has one of the smaller models and it did infact " walk " off the counter a few weeks ago ... The whole machine went crashing to the ground ... She picked it up , dusted it off , but the only damage was a small piece of plastic broke off ... Got ta give it to Kitchen Aide
I am projecting here , perhaps , but I think the question you 're asking is " why does n't my salmon come out moist and succulent like what I get at the store ? " A couple reasons . First : you want to properly cure the salmon for at least 24 hours beforehand . 36 is better . To cure , you will need two whole sides of salmon ( or one cut in half ) , with the skin on . Rub your cure into the flesh -- so 2:1 salt : sugar , plus whatever other spices you care to use . The addition of brandy sounds lovely ; I like tequila or a nice peaty/smoky Scotch myself , or maple syrup ( but obviously nix the sugar if you 're doing that ) . Place the two pieces together , flesh to flesh , optionally including herbs between . Wrap very tightly in plastic , completely sealed , bung into your fridge to let it cure . Second : when the fish is cured , remove from the wrap , rinse off the cure . Third : time to smoke . If you want dry and flaky , hot smoke -- this seems to be what you 're doing and what you do n't like . Therefore , it 's cold smoke time . The two basic ways to do this are either to add LOTS of trays of ice to the smoker itself , or to route the smoke through a cooler filled with ice and then back into your smoking chamber . A quick Google should provide you with diagrams for doing so . Do not over-smoke . Fish picks up flavours quite readily , and will dry out if oversmoked , even if cold . Really for salmon I do n't think you need much more than 20 minutes of cold smoke .
I 'm still happily using a non-stick frying pan that I 've had for almost 4 years . I only use Teflon utensils . I never use harsh abrasives . After cooking , I fill it with boiling water , let it soak for a while and then wipe out with paper towels . Most of the time I just give it a quick rinse and it 's ready for the next time . And buy quality - " Quality is remembered long after the price is forgotten " .
American versions of Mongolian BBQ are often pretty sweet ( this does n't sound like an authentic recipe ) . More soy sauce ( or more of everything but the sugar ) would cut the sweetness . Chili oil would certainly give it heat , but is n't going to temper the sweetness much . Any of the following would offset the sweetness and be appropriate for this type of dish : Any tart apple ( a common ingredient in the Japanese version of Mongolian BBQ ) Onions ( not caramelized ) Rice wine vinegar
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
You say you are substituting the juices for milk . You have to ask yourself , what roles does milk play in the recipe , and how well will the juices in question fill those roles ? What does milk contribute ? The milk adds : Liquid , to gelatinize the starch in the flour to create the structure of the cake ; the water will also contribute to some gluten formation , but in most cake techniques , this is minimized Very minor acid component A small amount of fat , but compared to the oil in the above recipe this becomes negligible A small amount of sugar , but compared to the sugar in the above recipe , also negligible Some proteins and other milk solids which will interfere slightly with gluten formation , again enhancing tenderness ; they also help to retain moisture so the cake stays fresh longer A very milk neutral flavor that comes out as a general contribution to the richness The fruit juice In contrast , what do fruit juices bring to the recipe ? I am ignoring the heavy/light or thin/thick distinction because it means very little . Water -- exactly the same as the milk Significant acid . Fruit juices tend to be much more acidic than milk . You might wish to experiment with reducing the baking powder , and adding some baking soda to use the additional acid to power the chemical leavening , while neutralizing some of the overall acidity Most fruit juice is essentially fat free , but as the fat contribution from milk is negligible , this is not an important distinction Possibly some pectin or other long polysaccarides which will contribute to the overall structure and mouth feel of the cake , but this effect is probably negligible Flavor . The fruit juices will have a strong and significant flavor -- of course , this may be a positive , but it will influence the outcome of the cake Sugar . Fruit juices tend to be sweeter than milk , so the overall cake will be slightly sweeter . This is probably somewhat mitigated by the increased acidity , and again , compared to the overall sugar in the recipe , probably not a large contributing factor . Fruit solids ( proteins , minerals and so on ) . Much like the milk solids , probably contribute somewhat to the more tender crumb , but hard to characterize . The truth is , the " heaviness " or " thickness " ( by which I infer you mean viscosity , or how fast the juice flows or pours -- or how easily it coats a spoon , which is an easier way to see it ) is not that important . You could use pureed fruit with almost the same result -- for example , canned or pureed pumpkin or mashed banana . Even pureed fruit is still mostly water . Still , every juice or fruit puree is its own entity . I would keep a little diary of how each trial worked out , whether you like the results , and adjust the next try accordingly . Edit : What juices to use ? I realized I never specifically answered the question , what juices to use ? Use whatever juice ( or fruit puree ) you like , based whether you like the flavor and how the cake turns out . Each time you try something new , there is some risk , but you should soon find ones you like , and which perform well .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
Sugar is not critical to the pickling process - it exists primarily as a flavorant . <URL> preservation requires one of two methods - either immersion in vinegar of a sufficiently low pH to kill off unwanted bacteria , or through natural fermentation with probiotic strains of bacteria . Honey is known to have <URL> properties . When using natural fermentation , one might think that there may be a risk that the added honey will kill off probiotic bacteria before they establish a stable population , allowing other unsavory bacteria to grow . However , most brine-based recipes already include known antimicrobial herbs such as mustard seeds , garlic , cinnamon , or cloves . Honey should n't be any different than the addition of these spices . When using vinegar to pickle , there is no reason to be concerned about adding honey . Regardless , it is important to note that honey will have a distinctly different flavor profile from pure sugar . Perhaps try it in a small batch before committing to " large scale " production .
I ca n't give you a list with good substitutes for common dishes . First , I doubt that my common dishes are your common dishes . Second , it would be too long . If you want to substitute alcohol in a dish , you have to understand what it does in the specific recipe , and then use your imagination to think of an ingredient which will have a similar effect . Alcohol has mostly three effects in a dish . First , it is a liquid , and its bulk must be considered . In recipes where the ratio is important ( mainly batters ) , if you leave out the alcohol , you have to add some other liquid to maintain the original ratio . Second , alcohol adds its own taste . A small part of it is the taste of the ethanol itself , but cooks mostly use beverages with a strong taste of their own as a component of the dish . Third , alcohol is a solvent . It can get more taste out of your other ingredients than pure water . ( Ever wondered why vanilla extract is alcohol based ? ) This is especially important in recipes which give it a longer time to interact with the other ingredients , such as the slow boiling of a coq au vin . Depending on which of these effects are important to you , you have different options to act . Just leave it out . If you are n't baking , you probably are n't that interested in the ratio . And if you expect the result to taste well enough without the alcohol , the simplest solution is to skip it . Use a liquid substitute . This is especially important in baking and confectionery , but you can decide to do it in any case . Depending on the original kind of alcohol and taste you are aiming for , you can use pure water , a liquid trying to stay close to the original taste , or a liquid which gives a completely new taste profile to the whole recipe . For example , in a sweet dish like your foster dessert you can use caramel dissolved in apple juice instead of dark rum if you want to mimic the original , or cherry juice to create a cherry-banana dessert . Common liquids to use are sugared water ( when the original recipe had a sweet liquor ) , a fruit or vegetable juice , a herbal infusion , clear stock , or pickle liquid . Do n't be afraid to use more than one liquid to get closer to the effect you want . If the recipe already uses some other liquid , you can just use more of it . Use a spice or condiment . This is when your main concern is the taste , and you do n't care about the missing liquid . Again , you could be trying to mime the original closely ( using orange zest instead of Grand Marnier ) , or just using any strong spice so the dish does n't become bland . It is up to you . A special case is to use only a taste " essence " : for some beverages common in baking , you can buy a propylene-glycol based condiment which approximates their aroma . Rum essence is widely available , but I 'm quite sure that the whiskey flavored ice cream in the supermarket is n't full of real whiskey . Leave the alcohol in the recipe ( possibly reduced ) . Obviously impossible in some circumstances , like a wine sauce , but quite feasible in others . You do n't have to drown the dessert in rum and flambe it . If you use 20 ml of rum per 1000 g of other ingredients , a child who eats a normal serving ( 150 g ) will consume somewhat less than 1.2 g of ethanol if no alcohol at all is cooked out - and in practice , if the recipe calls for cooking , maybe half of the alcohol will evaporate , and a very young child will probably not eat the whole serving . I do n't think that such miniscule amounts are problematic for children . Of course , you are free to combine these solutions in any way you see fit , depending on which effect ( s ) of alcohol you are trying to imitate . For example , if a baking recipe calls for 50 ml of calvados , use 15 ml of calvados , 35 ml of apple juice , and a breath of powdered cinnamon . Or baste a roast with a mix of tomato and carrot juice instead of red wine . The possibilities are endless , you just have to be clear on why you are choosing whatever you are choosing .
I would probably use diluted white cranberry juice , as being the flavour closest to rice wine vinegar . I am not sure if the acidity would be sufficient , however ; you may need to add lemon juice . A substitute for soy you will not easily find , as the development of those sorts of flavours requires fermentation .
I do n't think the bowl has anything to do with it , unless it is some sort of reactive metal , but you do n't normally find food grade bowls made of a reactive metal ? To stop surface oxidation of non-acidic fruit ( apples , bananas etc. ) coat them with a suitable weak acid . See this previous answer <URL>
An espresso machine usually needs to push water at somewhere between 8 and 15 bar pressure , which is quite a lot . And since it is the high-pressure components that are key to how they work , it is the quality and durability of these that tends to set the price point . The quality of the pump varies from a device intended to be used for two or three cups once a week , all the way to professional machines designed to produce thousand of cups a day , month after month . This is why domestic machines are usually quite clear that they are for domestic use only : they simply can not cope with the duty cycle of any more than that . Many domestic espresso machines will turn themselves off if they are used to make too many cups in one session - quite simply , they overheat . It sounds like one you bought is one intended for occasional use . My advice is to visit a couple of retailers that have staff dedicated to selling espresso machines . They will , of course , try to sell you " their " brand , but they will also recognise when someone needs a domestic unit designed for daily use as opposed to one just for special occasions . As a bonus , you generally get what you pay for with espresso machines . The more expensive domestic ones usually really do last much longer .
Buttercream is pretty simple , start with room temperature butter , beat it until it 's white , slowly add icing sugar , add small amounts of milk as needed to keep the consistency right . For each 1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick ) of butter , use about 1 1/2 cups of icing sugar ( sifted ) and 3 Tbsp of milk . You can do it in a mixer , a food processor , or just use a bowl and a whisk . I used a whisk a few days ago when I realized my large stand mixer is overkill for the small amount of icing I wanted and I found that microwaving the icing for about 10 seconds helped me stir in the sugar when it was getting too thick .
At a bare minimum , you 'll want at least one " flavoured " and one " unflavoured " oil . Olive oil is definitely the most common choice for a flavoured oil , and sunflower/peanut/canola oil all have pretty neutral flavours ( not to mention similar smoke points ) . Note that for good flavour you 'll want extra virgin olive oil , which also makes it unsuitable for frying/saut éing at high temperatures . So I would say that you already have the minimum requirement . That said , even the " unflavoured " oils have subtly different flavour characteristics due to their different fat contents , and you 'll want to take this into consideration if you like to cook in ethnic cuisines . A short list ( and keep in mind that this is partially subjective ) : Peanut oil : Asian cuisine , Mexican cuisine ( high-temperature frying ) Sesame oil : Asian cuisine ( stir-fry or deep-fry [ refined only ] ) Olive oil : Italian cuisine , French cuisine ( low-temp ) Sunflower or Canola oil : American cuisine , esp . deep-frying Grape seed oil : Decent substitute for any of the other oils Walnut/almond oil : Great for fried desserts ( watch the smoke point though ) .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Using refrigerated biscuits for <URL> is actually just a convenient shortcut - if you do n't have pre-prepared biscuit dough at hand , you can simply make your own sweet yeast dough from scratch , that 's the classic ( pre-Pillsbury-can ) recipe . Either find a recipe that uses sweet yeast dough from scratch or substitute your favourite sweet yeast dough . ( The Wikipedia page linked above has a link to a recipe , for example . )
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
If you like to cook using 3 or more elements at once , ensure you buy a sufficiently powered model . There 's nothing more frustrating than upping the power on one element and watching another one reduce at the same time . Touch controls look nice but they 're horrible from a usability standpoint . I always had problems with responsiveness with wet or greasy fingers . Cockroaches love induction . I do n't know if the frequency attracts them or it 's just the heat but they will come and eat out the wiring , even if you 've never spotted one in the house before . It 's a common problem as it 's hard to seal the electronics for thermal reasons . Board replacements are expensive . It 's one item I would consider an extended warranty on . As for any 2 " cooktop , larger pot/pan sizes ca n't be accommodated if you 're using 3 or more elements . Go 2 ' 8 " minimum .
end question
start question
Why does soda bread call for buttermilk ?
Buttermilk has a delicious flavor that is not at all approximated by lemon juice . It 's true that lemon or vinegar with milk will clabber it a little and provide the acid that the recipe needs but the flavor will be distinctly lacking . Get some buttermilk . It 's inexpensive and has a longer shelf life than normal milk . It is also exceptionally easy to make . If you make it a standard part of your pantry you will find yourself enjoying life more ( or at least pancakes . )
All that is meant here by " turn out " is to take the mass that you have begun to mix in the bowl , and dump it all onto your ( floured ) counter to begin kneading . Turn out just means to dump . To move .
Almost all bread is best eaten on the day it is prepared , whether leavened with baking soda or with yeast . ( Exceptions might be some whole-grain dense breads with strong flavors that " settle " and improve after a day or so . ) Fermentation time does in fact have a small impact on how fast bread goes stale , though . Staling generally encompasses two things : ( 1 ) degradation of the crust by excess moisture migrating from the interior of the loaf , and ( 2 ) hardening of the crumb due to recrystallization of certain starches . The first aspect is n't that significant in soda bread , since its moisture content is high and its rising power ( compared to yeasted bread ) is relatively low , so it rarely develops the kind of crackly crust you might find on a French baguette . In that respect , soda bread 's crust wo n't degrade noticeably faster than , say , a typical moist yeasted sandwich bread . The second aspect might make soda bread more likely to stale faster . A long fermentation allows time for various enzymes to do some work in breaking down some starches in the bread and converting them to sugar . If the starch content in the final bread is lower , staling will be reduced somewhat . For example , amylase enzymes are naturally part of yeast fermentation and will break down starches , though sometimes they are added to improve bread texture and shelf life . ( Home bakers often use amylase in the form of barley malt . ) Is this effect significant , though , assuming you do n't add enzymes to your bread dough during fermentation ? I 'd guess that it probably only becomes significant for yeasted breads with long fermentation times , including those that use preferments or sourdough starters , or where fermentation takes place overnight in the refrigerator or something . The long fermentation will allow time for the natural enzymes to activate and do their work . So , some yeasted breads will have noticeable slower staling due to the process of yeast fermentation . However , if you compared a soda bread recipe vs. a yeasted bread recipe with similar ingredients that is only fermented for a couple of hours , the difference in shelf-life between the two would probably be negligible .
I own a 1-litre soda siphon like the iSi Siphon you pointed out . Some friends have a higher-capacity soda maker , I think from Sodastream . To answer your questions : Yes , the charger is single-use , and it carbonates only as much water as is in the bottle . My soda siphon holds about 1 litre of water . If I put in less water , then once the bottle runs dry I vent spare carbon dioxide uselessly into the air . If I put in more water , the carbon dioxide runs out and the remaining water wo n't leave the bottle . Using the standard siphon product , there 's no easy way to have a single charger yield more than one 1 litre . The charger is designed to deliver all its gas at one time ; it does n't reseal . Consider the <URL> if you want a step up from the 1-litre soda siphon with disposable chargers . Sodastream uses larger bottles of gas , which they describe as " 60L " . I think they mean that each bottle of gas carbonates 60 litres of water . Sodastream 's <URL> claims , After your initial purchase of a home soda maker package , you 'll enjoy seltzer and sparkling water in reusable 1-liter PET bottle for just [ Canadian ] $ .30 per litre and flavoured sodas for about $ .88 per litre , before any applicable shipping charges ... From their wording , it 's pretty clear to me that the $ 0.20 - $ 0.30 / litre claim is purely the marginal cost of carbonating water . It does n't include amortising the purchase cost of the equipment , and likely is based on the cheapest way to refill the carbon dioxide bottles ( exchanging filled bottles for empty by mail ) , and likely does n't include shipping costs or taxes for the refills . It may be that one can drive the cost per litre down by adjusting the amount of water in the soda bottle , as well .
The tangzhong is composed mainly of gelated starches . According to Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " During the baking of bread and cakes , the starch granules absorb water , swell , and set to form the rigid bulk of the walls that surround the bubbles of carbon dioxide . At the same time their swollen rigidity stops the expansion of the bubbles and so forces the water vapor inside to pop the bubbles and escape , turning the foam of separate bubbles into a continuous spongy network of connected holes . If this did n't happen , then at the end of baking the cool - ing water vapor would contract and cause the bread or cake to collapse . In the Tangzhong , the starches are already swollen before mixing begins . This means that they do not need to compete with the proteins to absorb water as the completed dough warms up in the oven . As you mix the ingredients the plump starches perforate the gluten-water sheets . As McGee mentioned , these starch granules ' rigidity accounts for the spongy , close structure of the tangzhong crumb , dough with less perforated gluten mesh forms larger bubbles and a more open crumb . The gluten in the flour used in the tangzhong is denatured by the process before it can form into an extensive network . However , since the tangzhong accounts for only a small portion of the total flour used , there is plenty of gluten left to maintain structure during rise and oven spring until the starch structure sets . Other resources : <URL>
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
Malt syrups and powders come in two forms , Diastatic and Non-Diastatic . The Non-Diastatic kind is just sugar , and is only useful for adding a little sweetness and flavor . Diastatic Malt Syrups and Powders are made by taking grain ( usually barley , but others can be used , like rye ) , allowing it to sprout , then toasting it lightly to halt the sprouting process . The little roots and stuff are rubbed off , and the grain is ground into a powder , or soaked into a syrup . This is very similar to the process used to convert grains for beer-making . The syrup is rich in enzymes that are created by the sprouting grain , for the purpose of converting the seed 's starch reserves into sugar for the young plant . Non-Diastatic versions have these enzymes deactivated by heat , leaving the syrup " inert " . The enzymes and sugars do three important things Provide nutrients for yeast . Facilitate the conversion of starch into sugar , making bread more flavorful . The little shot of extra sugar also gives yeast an initial boost . Here is an article on malt syrups and powders and how to make them yourself : <URL> And King Arthur Flour sells a version of the powder , along with some recipe examples : <URL>
It 's my opinion that the " proper temperature " is a number set by lawyers , not by chefs . The government standard for a roast bird is 180 ° F ( 83 ° C ) ! Are you kidding me ? HTST pasteurization is 161 ° F ( 72 ° C ) for 20 seconds , but my turkey has to get to 180 ° F for safe human consumtion ? What the hell kind of bacteria do they think live in there ? 165 ° F ( 74 ° C ) is a common number , and a pretty decent one , though I always take mine out before that for the reason below . You need to remember that the internal temperature of the bird will continue to rise for a while after you take it out of the oven : the heat on the outside is still migrating inward . If you wait to take it out until the internal temperature is the " right " temperature , by the time it peaks , it 'll be 10 ° F ( ~ 5 ° C ) HIGHER than the right temperature , and that 's in the dry zone . We 're talking 190 ° F ( 88 ° C ) thanksgiving football . Blech . Dark meat almost always handles being overcooked better than lighter meat . The breast is the hardest part of the turkey to cook correctly . If you haggle with the temperature , and your white meat is still on the dry side , you might try brining the bird for 24 hours or so . It makes a big difference in terms of juiciness .
Assuming the cod was the same quality as before and you de-salted the fish in the fridge for 24 to 48 hours , then I would also guess overcooking . Rendering the gelatin at 45 & deg ; C ( as suggested in the paper <URL> ) should prevent the fish from cooking and give enough time to get it into the oil . You can always cook the fish in a separate step after you made the pil pil . Modern techniques for salting cod use less salt and create a product that will not be edible by future archeologists , so store in a dry cool place ( tightly wrapped in the fridge ) .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
it 's possible that the heat only comes from the burner/element at the bottom . Especially if you have a gas oven . Try bufferring the bottom of the bread with a pizza stone . A terracotta clay pot saucer , or practically any unglazed natural stone tile can substitute . Marble or granite are not ok .
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
Industrial breads use ' dough conditioners ' that soften the dough and make working with it easier . You can buy such mixes online , <URL> for instance , and I 've seen them for sale in natural food stores and the like . Other things that might work are adding a starch or a fat , or heat treating some of your flour in the microwave ( a minute for a cup , do n't do this to all the flour , it destroys some of the gluten ) . Guar gum or xanthan gum will help to keep things moist as well . I 've never used these techniques , so some experimentation might be necessary . Store bread in plastic bags as soon as it cools , and do n't slice right away .
Garlic in pickling recipes is just for flavor . It does not effect the chemistry of the pickle -- either for vinegar pickling , or fermentation pickling ( other than adding more vegetable mass to be pickled ) . ( This part of my little quest to close old questions with no answers , and no other substantive answer has been offered in the week since the question was asked . )
Buttermilk has a delicious flavor that is not at all approximated by lemon juice . It 's true that lemon or vinegar with milk will clabber it a little and provide the acid that the recipe needs but the flavor will be distinctly lacking . Get some buttermilk . It 's inexpensive and has a longer shelf life than normal milk . It is also exceptionally easy to make . If you make it a standard part of your pantry you will find yourself enjoying life more ( or at least pancakes . )
Basically , cream whips better when it 's cold . If cream were stored warm , the advice would be to cool the cream . Since it 's already cold , the advice is to cool the equipment ( as warm equipment will increase the temp of the cream ) . Mild science : the temperature effects the size of the bubbles that form , how fat clings to itself , whipping time , and overrun ( air cell structure / air phase volume ) . In other words how light and fluffy it will get and how long it is likely to stay that way . Warning , heavy science from <URL> : The effects of whipping temperature ( 5 to 15 ° C ) on the whipping ( whipping time and overrun ) and rheological properties of whipped cream were studied . Fat globule aggregation ( aggregation ratio of fat globules and serum viscosity ) and air bubble factors ( overrun , diameter , and surface area ) were measured to investigate the mechanism of whipping . Whipping time , overrun , and bubble diameters decreased with increasing temperature , with the exception of bubble size at 15 ° C . The aggregation ratio of fat globules tended to increase with increasing temperature . Changes in hardness and bubble size during storage were relatively small at higher temperatures ( 12.5 and 15 ° C ) . Changes in overrun during storage were relatively small in the middle temperature range ( 7.5 to 12.5 ° C ) . From the results , the temperature range of 7.5 to 12.5 ° C is recommended for making whipped creams with a good texture , and a specific temperature should be decided when taking into account the preferred overrun . The correlation between the whipped cream strain hardness and serum viscosity was high ( R2 = 0.906 ) and persisted throughout the temperature range tested ( 5 to 15 ° C ) . A similar result was obtained at a different whipping speed ( 140rpm ) . The multiple regression analysis in the range of 5 to 12.5 ° C indicated a high correlation ( R2 = 0.946 ) in which a dependent variable was the storage modulus of whipped cream and independent variables were bubble surface area and serum viscosity . Therefore , fat aggregation and air bubble properties are important factors in the development of cream hardness . The results of this study suggest that whipping temperature influences fat globule aggregation and the properties of air bubbles in whipped cream , which alters its rheological properties .
From what I can tell it seems like you are asking whether a baking soda solution is a good solution for cleaning fruits and vegetables . The answer to that would be not really , you 're wasting good baking soda . <URL> shows that even purpose made commercial vegetable cleaners were no better than plain water for cleaning vegetables , it 's the soaking time and technique used that makes the difference . The only chemical tested that seems to make and difference is <URL> , which demonstrably reduced contamination on the outside of melons . However , you do n't eat melon rinds , I would n't wash vegetables or fruit that I was going to eat in a chlorine solution because chlorine is unpleasant stuff and will probably ruin your flavors . So washing your vegetables in baking soda , vinegar , or baking soda and vinegar is no better than washing them in plain old tap-water . It 's better for your flavors that you do not as well . The only use I know of for baking soda in the preparation and cooking of green vegetables is that adding a bit when boiling green vegetables helps preserve their vibrant green flavor by neutralizing the acids that break down the chlorophyll . The trouble is it also turns them to mush , so I never use that method .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
end question
start question
How do you poach chicken ?
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
Take them to a professional . Nothing you can affordably buy in your home will work well . Personally , I do n't buy quality serrated knives . I buy cheap and replace when dull . Only my normal blades are quality , and these I have sharpened yearly .
The thing to remember , vis a vis bacterial contamination , is that it 's almost always the OUTSIDE of the meat that 's contaminated , not the inside . With pork and chicken you 're worried about an internal parasite/bacteria , which is why they 're not cooked rare . With beef , if it 's grade A , it 's good to go , and most everything you buy in the grocery store is fine . With tuna ( which is another one people like super-rare ) the story is mostly the same , though the chance of getting a parasite from fish is higher . In both cases , do a hot sear on the outside , and it 'll take care of any bacteria that may be hanging around . The reason ground beef is considered a higher threat is because the " outside " is pretty much the whole thing after the grinding process .
I suspect the blackness comes from the spices you put on the chicken burning . Try this technique I learnt from Jamie Oliver : Season your chicken as normal . Put the pan on a high heat until it 's hot ( not stupid-hot , just hot ) . Add olive oil and the chicken skin-side down . Cook for about 5 minutes . Meanwhile , take a square of baking parchment or greaseproof paper big enough to cover the pan . Fold it in half until you have a ' folded fan ' shape . Hold the point so it 's roughly over the middle of the pan , and tear off any excess that goes over the side of the pan . Unfold and you should have a circle of paper . Scrunch it up , then run it under a cold tap and give it a shake . Turn the chicken over , turn the heat to medium low , then place the wet paper ( a ' cartouche ' ) on to the chicken . Finally put a heavy pan lid ( the lid from a casserole is ideal ) on top . Cook for another 20 minutes . The moisture in the cartouche helps keep the chicken moist and prevents it from burning . Cooking time will depend on the thickness of the breast , so do check it 's cooked through before eating ( cut it open and check it 's not pink ) .
Save in a bag in your freezer along with all chicken bones you come across . Cleave through the bones to expose some collagen before freezing ( consider <URL> all ingredients before hand ) . Add whatever vegetable bits you do n't use in your cooking - including things you would n't eat ( but nothing poisonous ) to your bag , especially onions ( including skin and root ) , celery , and carrots . When you have a good amount , put in a pot and just cover with cold water . A bit of vinegar helps promote a nice gelling of your broth . Tomato paste , peppercorns , and a bay leaf will add to the flavor . Simmer gently for around five hours . Remove . If you had fat still on your meat you may want to chill until the fat rises to the surface to remove the fat . Your broth will keep 3 to 4 days in the fridge or it can be frozen until you have a recipe which calls for chicken stock or broth . Your homemade broth will be an excellent addition to sauces , a great base for soups , or an excellent liquid for cooking rice , couscous , or quinoa .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Breathe through your mouth . The tear-causing chemicals in onions are absorbed through the nasal mucous membrane . By breathing through your mouth , they do n't get much contact with the fumes and wo n't absorb nearly as much .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
First , the recommended minimum cooking temperature for pork is 145 so you can cook them a little less than you already are . Also , keep in mind that meat continues to cook after it is removed from the pan/cooking element . The residual heat will produce what is known as " carry over cooking " which can range from 5-15 degrees , depending on the size of the item and how long it sits . Pork chops are n't going to continue rising as high as a large roast that has a greater amount of residual heat built up . Also , it is very difficult to get an accurate reading on temperatures for chops and steaks with a thermometer so it 's really best to learn to determine doneness through touch . For pork you 're looking for a medium doneness so touch your middle finger to your thumb . That will contract the fleshy part between the thumb and index finger on the same hand . Poke that with the index finger from your other hand . It should feel somewhat springy with just a little firmness . That 's how your pork ( or medium-done steak ) should feel when it 's ready to be removed . As for other things you might consider ... Brining will pull moisture into the pork so that it 's less likely to dry out during the cooking process . A brine is a mixture of water , sugar , and salt . Additional flavors may be added but this would be a basic moisturizing brine . Through osmosis , the liquid is pulled into the cells of the meat . As the meat cooks it retains it 's juiciness due to the fact that salt helps to retain water . The flavor is enhanced through any seasonings that were also introduced to the brine as they will be carried into the cells of the meat as well . Basic Brine : 1 qt . water , 1/2 cup kosher salt , 1/2 cup sugar . Add the sugar and salt to the water and stir until dissolved . Submerge meat in brine and refrigerate if brining for an extended period of time . Plan on about 1 hour per pound of meat . When you 're ready to cook , remove the meat from brine , pat dry and then season as you normally would and rub with a little oil before broiling , grilling , searing , etc. . I hope that provides some help !
Unless you freeze them yourself and do n't wash them first , no , you should not need to wash commercially processed frozen vegetables . Part of the process for freezing includes cleaning/trimming preparing the vegetables . Washing is unnecessary . Info <URL> : The actual process of freezing a food item varies somewhat depending on what is to be frozen . Peas are the most common frozen vegetable , having virtually replaced fresh peas in the American supermarket . The pea process is typical for many vegetables . A typical process for a frozen entrée follows . Picking and washing 2 The peas may be picked by hand or automatically . Then , a machine called a viner removes them from their shells . If the processing plant is adjacent to the fields , the peas are carted there . If truck transport is necessary , they are cooled with ice water and then packed in ice for transport . At the plant , the peas are dumped into beds and sprayed with water to remove dust and dirt .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
The change in flavor is mainly affected by packaging and how long before it gets frozen . Packaging : If you have vacuum sealed chicken it will last quite a while . It wo n't get freezer burnt , dry out or pick up flavors from other freezer occupants . I would say properly packaged will last months to a year range depending on your taste buds . Time before freezing : I have a habit of buying meat to cook right away , but end up freezing it raw several days after the fact . I then see it a week or two later and pull it out to cook . It never tastes as good as when I freeze it immediately .
In my somewhat limited experience you have two things that affect growth of the crispy ears . As Caleb mentions using a lame to score your bread means you can cut with a bit of an angle that will promote a little flap . The second is ensuring a rapid oven spring , which will cause the flap to open as much as possible before the starches on the surface set . The key to good oven spring is having a hot enough oven ( preheat longer than you think you need to if you are using a stone or other heat-storing vessel in the oven ) , and a source of steam injection . A few ways to do get some steam : When you put the dough in , pour a 1/2 cup of boiling water into a small cast iron skillet pre-heated in the oven . Spritz the walls of the oven with water when you put the dough in . My favorite - preheat a large dutch oven , and put the dough inside the dutch oven ( lid on ) to bake . For the last 10 minutes of the bake , remove the lid . The dutch oven stores some of the initial steam release and makes for much nicer spring and crusts . Of course , only round bread fits .
Brining is great to begin with . Use a bone-in , skin on chicken breast . Once it 's done you can remove the skin and carve off the bone if you like . Also , set up 2 heat zones in your grill ( either by banking your coals or by turning off a gas burner ) . Brown it for a few minutes over the hot zone , then transfer to the cooler zone to finish cooking , until temp comes to 165-170 degrees . Then remove from heat and wait at least 5 minutes to slice .
It removes excess starch , so your sushi rice does n't turn into nasty glutinous slop . The texture of the rice is very important , so you 'll need to rinse it several times before you steam it . Make sure the water is nice and clear after the last time you rinse it , and make sure you buy <URL> or similar : if you use regular rice , you may not get good results . I would n't worry overmuch about the nutritional content of white sushi rice ( you can starve on a diet of it ) . It 's what you put into your sushi that 'll give it nutritional value .
end question
start question
What 's the difference when smoking in a spherical grill and in a smoker ?
No , it wo n't be different . It is , however , a bit harder . The issues are mainly : It 's harder to get the heat away from the food . So you end up cooking with some direct heat . This can be avoided by using a small amount of well soaked , large wood chunks and get them smoking with some normal charcoal . You should also use indirect heat by stacking the chunks on one side of the grill . If you use wood chips , this wo n't work . They burn too fast and need too much of an ignition source . Heat insulation is n't very good . The walls are thin and you have to remove the whole lid to tend your food . The heat dissipation can be a real issue for long low and slow recipes . Smokers either tend to be well insulated ( brick or ceramic ) or have small doors so you can access your food from the side . Adding fuel can be a pain . It 's made easier if you have a grill surface that is hinged . If you do n't , I 'd suggest getting one if you are seriously considering smoking . It makes adding fuel much easier . Of course , adding fuel causes the above heat dissipation issues , so add fuel as infrequently as possible . That said , I smoked for years on a Webber grill , and it worked just fine . I did , however , upgrade to a <URL> at the first available opportunity . The results are more consistent and the process is much easier . But you 'll be fine getting started with the webber .
I 've done it in the husk , when it 's fresh ( ie , the husk is n't dried out ) , but I do n't like the grassy flavors that the husk imparts . My neighbor 's clued me into a box of dry wax paper sheets to cover food for the microwave ( so I can be lazy and not have to clean the microwave as often ) , so I wrap the corn in it after it 's been husked and the silk removed . I just roll in around the corn , twist the ends like the paper wrapping on taffy , then microwave it for a few seconds . I have n't done it recently , so I ca n't remember exact times ( and the wattage of microwaves differ , anyway ) ... you just want to warm it through , though . If you were going to try to get it hot , I 'd consider dropping to medium power for a much longer time , so you do n't overly cook the outside , as I vaguely recall having an incident once .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
According to <URL> : The meat of sheep 6 to 10 weeks old is usually sold as baby lamb , and spring lamb is from sheep of five to six months .
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
In my experience the primary difference is that Calzones have Ricotta ( and possibly Mozzarella ) and Strombolis only have Mozzarella . In the Philadelphia area , both are folded over pizzas , basically . Growing up , my mother made Stromboli and it was rolled , not folded . I rarely see that in a pizza shop these days , but I do prefer that in a Stromboli . Edit : Just read systempuntoout 's link to Wikipedia and it confirmed something that I was going to post and then deleted . When I was growing up , Strombolis were made from bread dough and Calzones were made from pizza dough ; nowadays all of the pizza shops just use pizza dough . I remember bread stores as being the primary place to get Strombolis growing up because they were the ones that made the dough !
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
according to the Ball canning book ( paraphrasing ) ... JAM is made by cooking crushed or chopped fruits with sugar , and is made of one fruit or a combination of fruits , is spreadable , and is firm but will not hold the shape of the jar . JELLY is made from juice strained from fruit , usually prepared in a way to keep it crystal clear , and is gelatinized enough to hold is shape when removed from the jar , yet is still spreadable . PRESERVES are fruit preserved with sugar so it retains its shape , is transparent , shiny , tender and plump . the syrup generally has the consistency of honey , and a true preserve will not hold its shape when spooned from the jar . to add to the confusion , i 'll also add their descriptions of ... CONSERVES , which are jam-like and made of a combination of one or more fruits , nuts and raisins , cooked until it rounds up on the spoon . MARMALADES are a soft jelly containing pieces of fruit and peel evenly suspended in a transparent jelly . similar in structure to jam .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
Yes , yes there is . Black truffles are dark , earthy , sexy in flavour . Renaissance writings compare them to ' unwashed slatterns ' and ' bedchambers , rooms of sexual congress , unaired and reeking of the recent activities contained therein . ' White truffles are lighter in aroma and flavour , with distinct garlicky notes . Each has their place -- black works better on its own , white works better as an adjunt or finishing note to a dish . I am personally partial to white truffle oil drizzled on cured duck breast , or a black truffle risotto with charred endive .
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
Skillets are not designed to hold much liquid ; as you point out , the curved sides are optimized for easy flipping and turning ( i.e. with a spatula ) . They also normally do not come with lids ; I 'm sure there are some out there , but even my All-Clad skillets did n't . You can really only use a skillet for high-heat searing or frying due to their low profile . Do n't bother trying to poach or even shallow-fry in one . Sauté pans , on the other hand , have more height , and usually do come with lids . They 're a little heavier , and do n't make it as easy to turn , but they can also be used for shallow-frying and moist-heat cooking methods like braising or poaching . I 've seen people make sauce or chili in sauté pans as well ; sometimes they 're more convenient if you 're only going to make a small quantity , since the large exposed surface area ( relative to a saucepan ) makes it easier to reduce sauces . It 's a no-brainer if your recipe starts out with sautéing garlic , onions , vegetables , etc. , and then has you adding the liquid ingredients ; if you have a large enough sauté pan then you do n't need to bother transferring to a saucepan afterward . I think you 've got it backwards ; of the two options , a sauté pan is definitely the more versatile option . I use both , but if I only had the space or budget for one , I 'd choose the sauté pan , because it can do everything a skillet can do ( just not quite as well ) and many more things a skillet is useless for . A skillet is really only necessary for people who do a lot of pan-searing . Note that as commenter Owen suggests , there are " French skillets " sold which have higher bases ; these are not really skillets , and are not normally sold with lids , but assuming you can find or improvise one , they would make semi-decent multi-taskers . I maintain that cast-iron skillets , while taller , are not nearly as versatile due to their reactive material and weight - I only ever use mine for searing/grilling .
As stated by <URL> ; The crisper provides a somewhat enclosed environment , which prevents moisture from escaping as rapidly . Vegetables keep best at a certain humidity , higher than that typically found in the rest of the fridge , but not so high that condensation starts accumulating on them . Vegetables kept in too-dry air in the rest of the fridge will tend to dry out and shrivel up faster ; those kept in the crisper will retain their water and texture better , keeping them crisp . Leafy vegetables are also much more prone to drying out , since they have much more surface area , while hardier vegetables with a decent skin on them ( like bell peppers ) do n't dry out nearly as quickly . Fruits benefit somewhat from this as well , but do n't generally need as high a humidity as vegetables . Some crisper drawers have little sliders on them which vary the size of the opening to the rest of the fridge , letting you vary the amount of circulation and therefore the humidity ; you can adjust this to suit what you tend to store in the drawer . If you have two crisper drawers , both adjustable , then it might be a good idea to put fruit and hardier vegetables in one , and more vulnerable vegetables in the other . Also , by always putting vegetables in the crisper drawer , you can prevent potential cross contamination between foods i.e. , the vegetables can never come in contact with raw meat , because they 're all in their own separate drawer .
Basically , when recipies call for softened butter , they use the creaming method ; the sugar and butter are mixed together in such a way that the sugar cuts little air bubbles into the butter . These little bubbles can add some extra puff to the cookies . If you melt the butter first , not only do you not have those air bubbles , but there 's water in butter , so you 'll end up getting some gluten development when you mix in the flour and make a chewy cookie ... but more importatly , without the fat being ( near ) solid , the cookie will slump a lot more , and spread out before it cooks ( assuming you have n't otherwise adjusted the recipe to compensate ) . There are cookie recipes that call for melted butter ; <URL> ; the " chewy " cookie uses melted butter .
I used hon-mirin exclusively when I lived in Japan , simply because it tasted better . My Japanese neighbor was surprised that I could tell the difference , and confessed ( somewhat embarrassedly ) that she used aji-mirin since her family could n't tell the difference . However , I can not buy hon-mirin in the US ( I 'm not 21 , and hon-mirin is sold as wine while aji-mirin is cooking wine ) so I 've been using aji-mirin without detrimental effect .
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
end question
start question
Are there any vegetarian-friendly egg substitutes that can be used in cakes ?
There are substitutes , but eggs have very important effects on the texture of dough and are therefore hard to substitute . You will need to experiment a great deal until you hit on the correct texture , because you 'll need to tweak all other ingredients and maybe include new ones , e.g. substitute part of the butter and use cream instead to account for moisture loss from egg substitutes . Mien 's link already includes some substitute ideas , like applesauce and commercial imitations . I ca n't give you more suggestions , because I always put eggs in my cakes ;) . But when tweaking , keep following in mind : Egg whites provide a resilient mesh which traps small air bubbles , so they make a cake more airy . You may need to adjust the baking powder upwards a bit . If it is a soda recipe , you 'll need to raise the acidity too . But the whole effect ca n't be approximated just with baking powder , because its bubbles are too big . For that , you need better emulsification ( covered below ) . Egg whites also have a binding quality . This should n't need compensation in a cake , as you need a dough without too much binding ( as opposed to bread ) , but if your cake starts falling apart , consider using a flour with higher gluten content ( all purpose flour instead of cake flour ) . Gluten binds too . If , on the other hand , your cake is too bread-like , then you may need less binding . The egg yolks are a source of fat , which prevents the dough gluten from forming a strong mesh by covering the particles . You will miss this with egg substitutes , especially if they are pectin-based ( like applesauce ) because pectin enhances binding . Use the lower gluten dough ( it it does n't cause the cake to fall apart ) or add more fat . Then there is the importance of emulsifiers . Egg yolks are one of the best sources of lecithin in the kitchen . An emulsifier helps your wet ingredients bind in an emulsion , instead of staying in two separate phases with the watery phase soaking the flour through and the fatty phase making the whole thing greasy . It also helps the trapping of very tiny air bubbles in the wet part of the dough ( this is what happens when you beat eggs with sugar on high speed until the colour lightens ) which provides a very fine leavening . Maybe commercial egg imitates contain emulsifiers - check the list - but if they do n't , you must buy pure lecithin . It is usually soy derived , but maybe you need to check with the manufacturer that your brand is suitable for vegetarians . Also , consider including cream , the fat in it is already emulsified in water , unlike butter ( which is water emulsified in fat ) . You must calculate precisely and tweak other ingredients to ensure that the total amount of fat and moisture do n't change ( except if you are compensating for the changes caused by the egg substitute ) . If it is a chocolate cake , consider reducing the fat and the flour and adding some cocoa powder ( the regular-fat variety ) . Cocoa has binding and thickening properties , and will help with the more even fat distribution . Melted chocolate tastes good in cakes , but makes them very dense , so do n't use it . The easiest way would be to find a recipe published by someone who has already done all the work . But just from paging through a cookbook , you ca n't tell if they did it right , or just slapped a spoon of applesauce instead of an egg and called it a vegan cake . Edit : I just had an idea when I saw Mien 's gelatine question and yours together in the list . I have n't heard of anybody using it , and do n't know if it will work , but it does , it will be great . So try it . I already said that using cream would help . As you need a foam full of very tiny bubbles for the perfect leavening , you could try whipped cream instead of whipped eggs . The trouble is that the air will get out of the batter very quickly while and after folding the cream . So you 'll need to stabilize it . Gelatine in unusually small quantities will make for a very nice experiment , but obviously not one you 'll want to do . But plant-derived gelling agents could help . Carrageenan is commonly used with dairy products , and you can buy it online . So try folding stabilized whipped cream into the batter .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Essentially , food pathogens can not grow below 4.0 pH and vinegar is significantly more acidic that that . If you go <URL> and scroll down a bit , there is a good , succinct explanation . They use brines of 38 and 44 percent vinegar " for taste and safety " . With this basic information , it would be easy to create brines that are safe and suite your taste . You really do n't need salt , sugar , spices or herbs for safety for vinegar pickles ( though you do need salt for lacto-fermented pickles ) . The acidity alone will do it . Of course , you probably want your pickles to taste good , so those other ingredients will be necessary . I should also add , that the site I linked to adds a cook step . This makes the pickles safe immediately after cooking . Without a cook step , the pickles will become safe over time , as the vinegar permeates the product , but may not be safe immediately . It seems that the addition of a low temperature cook step is an interesting innovation that improves safety and the ability to maintain a crunchy product .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
Quite the opposite , large ginger rhizomes are more potent both in flavour and aroma , because those compounds take time in the ground to develop and accumulate ... There 's a Chinese proverb : " It 's the older ginger that 's got the punch / heat " , referring to wisdom of the elders / the experienced ... The younger rhizomes have a milder flavour , and a smoother texture ( the older ones are more fibrous ) so are used for pickling in both Chinese and Japanese cuisines ...
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
Based on your description , it looks like you 've made the common error of assuming that equal volume is equal weight . Butter is more dense than flour so the same volume does not equal the same weight ... you must convert the 1/4 cup for each product using a trustworthy site . Here 's one that <URL> and includes both butter and flour . As you can see , 1/4 cup of butter is 57 grams . If you look at the next chart , you see the conversion for flour and you can see that 1/4 cup of flour is only 32 grams ! This means that , if you added 60 grams of each , you 've got twice as much flour ( the thickening agent ) than the recipe calls for ... so of course it 's going to be way too thick . I recommend you start over and be more careful with your conversions . As a note , my standard recipe for Mac and Cheese uses 4 tbsp each of flour and butter ( generally equivalent to 1/4 cup ) while it only calls for two cups of milk rather than three , so I usually have a much thicker white sauce than yours will be and I find it quite enjoyable . The <URL> ( an iconic American cookbook ) recipe calls for the same percentages for their white sauce - 2:2 tbsp of butter/flour with 1 cup of milk . To answer your questions in the comments , pure butter ( rather than spreadable butter/margarine or butter blends ) in the US is usually sold in one pound boxes containing four sticks per box . Each stick is 1/4 pound of butter which is equivalent to 1/2 cup . Each stick is wrapped in waxed paper and has tick marks to show each tablespoon of butter for a total of eight tablespoons . <URL> Occasionally the paper is n't perfectly aligned but it 's usually a simple matter to adjust your cut position to allow for the offset . So , a cup of butter is two sticks , a 1/4 cup of butter is a half stick . and a tablespoon is 1/8th of a stick . Your second question I think comes from a misunderstanding of how thick the white sauce is when completed correctly . With the proper percentages of flour and butter ( and using two cups of milk ) , the final consistency you get is somewhere between thick cream-based soup and thin hummus . Adding the cheese usually does n't effect the thickness because the cheese melts and is about the same consistency as the white sauce . I also like adding softer cheeses that melt well like goat cheese for both flavor and textural reasons . Once baked , the final outcome will be fairly solid and casserole-like . You should be able to cut it with a knife and expect it to hold its shape to a good degree , like this : <URL> This recipe will not make the creamy-style macaroni and cheese ( an example is shown below . That is a different process and is generally not baked . <URL> So that you can see the differences in the recipes of baked and creamy styles I 'll link you to a couple " creamy-style " mac and cheese recipes from other sources . This is a <URL> from Whole Foods Market , an American grocery chain and here 's a <URL> recipe from Serious Eats .
If you want something storebought , just get pumpkin puree - it is squash puree , not really even a substitute . Pumpkins are squash , and " pumpkin " is a pretty broad term , covering a lot of winter squash . In fact canned pumpkin is often made with things more similar to butternut squash than what you 'd think of as pumpkin ( jack-o ' - lanterns and all ) . Just make sure you do n't accidentally get some kind of pumpkin pie mix that has spices and maybe other things added . I suppose if you ca n't find that either , you could also look at baby food , since squash is fairly common there . If you really ca n't find anything in the store , though , do n't just give up on the recipe . It really is incredibly easy to make - just cut squash in half , throw in the oven cut side down , bake until it 's soft , scoop it out and mash up a bit . The actual active working time is only a couple minutes , and you 'll probably get much better flavor than you would from canned goods .
Ca n't comment on the nutritional side of things , but the main reason I can think of for not always including it is that it has a slightly different flavour . A much more intense lemon flavour is provided by the zest while the juice has the more tart elements ( and of course water ) . If you 're just interested in avoiding waste , you can freeze the zest .
The cooking snobs will say that butter is better , and even my fading taste buds can sometimes detect the difference . But much of the time you can make the substitute . BTW the reason for the 7/8 figure is that butter runs about 1/8 water . So you may have to use 7/8 cup of oil and 1-2 tablespoons of water . The biggest difference between solid fat and oil will occur when you see lines like , " Blend together with a pastry blender until you have crumbs the size of a pea . A pie crust made with oil will not be a tender flaky crust . However for bannock making in the bush , corn oil works fine as a substitute for lard . and it 's a heck of a lot easier to keep . A comment below mentions cookie recipes . For this to be successful , the flour to fat ratio has to be fairly high . Bannock is 1 cup of flour to 1-2 tbs of fat . This is small enough that the flour absorbs all the oil . Another signal : If the directions call for chilling the dough then there is enough fat in the mix that using oil would make the recipe way too liquid . I suspect this is the case with many cookies . Cake recipes usually do n't have as high a fat : flour ratio as many cookies , but cakes are often very fussy about ingredient ratios . So : Test before counting on it . It does work for bannock . 1 cup flour 1 to 3 tbs fat or oil 1/4 tsp salt 1 tsp baking powder Tiny amount of water . If you are going to fry the bannock , go light on the oil . Mix flour and salt and baking powder . Mix in fat . Mix in just enough water to make a stiff dough that holds together . It is very easy to overdo . Knead only long enough to mix . Cooking : 1 . Shape into long strips about 3/8 " thick , wrap around smooth pole and bake over a 10 second fire for 15 minutes rotating slowly . ( A 10 second fire : YOu can hold your hand where the cooking happens for 10 seconds ) Pat out into 3/8 to half inch slabs . Cook in a frying pan over a 20 second fire for 5-10 minutes on a side . Pat out to 1/8 " thick . Drop into a bucket with 2 inches of smoking hot lard in the bottom . Lift out with tongs after 30 seconds . Method 1 will keep campers busy for a long time . Method 2 makes bannock you can use for a meal later . Method 3 is the fastest method , but it is dangerous .
I would use it for anything other than deep frying or high temperature frying . It would be great for anything that requires oil but not cooking , like hummus .
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
There are several negative effects from over-kneading bread dough : Overheating - if the dough gets too warm , it will ferment too quickly ( or over ferment ) and will therefore lack flavour . Oxidisation - kneading for too long can cause the flour to oxidise and bleach , again impairing flavour . Breaking down - eventually the molecular bonds of the gluten will break , which is obviously not what you want to happen ! The latter two are really only possible with electric mixers , however . Most doughs are ready for fermentation when they reach an internal temperature of 77-81ºF ( 25-27 ° C ) . You can also check the gluten development with the Windowpane Test : pull off a chunk of dough and stretch it with your hands . It should stretch to form a very thin translucent sheet , without tearing .
I 'd like such a dish with courgettes , or mushrooms . Chickpeas sound like a good idea , butternut squash might be good as well . Sweet potato , perhaps .
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
When you find cheap lemons , buy a lot . Squeeze half a lemon in each of the cavities of an ice tray . Freeze . Within a day , remove the frozen slivers from the tray to a ziploc bag in the freezer . You now have measured units of fresh lemon juice you may use for cooking and will keep for months . The frozen lemons are a bit less acid than fresh juice , but full of flavor . You can do the same with limes .
It will definitely make a difference . Yolks contain various things like fats and emulsifiers that affect the flavor and texture of baked goods . If you want more details , then tell us what you 're baking .
I believe it depends on the source of the leaves . Kuding can be made from both a wax tree species and a holly species . I do not know about the wax tree , but teas made from holly do contain caffeine ( Yerba mate , for example ) .
Toasted almonds match well with hazelnuts , cumin , nutmeg , rosemary , vanilla and cinnamon . Cranberries do match well with garlic , lime , chili and onion . So from a flavor-pairing point of view , if you want a spicy dip , it would be better to make a cranberry dip in itself with cranberries , sugar , chili , pineapple and coriander , like a chutney . Mustard is a gamble . Cranberries do match well with some acidity , like lime or pineapples . I would be worried about the vinegar to be too stingy . If it 's a garlic-based dip , I would focus on garlic , onions , rosemary and cumin .
end question
start question
Can I re-freeze fruit ?
Basically , you can refreeze the raspberries . When a fruit or veg . is frozen , the water inside the plant cell expands , and bursts the cell wall , which is why there is so much ' juice ' when you thaw . If you refreeze , you can be sure that the raspberries will freeze into a giant block . If you are using them to make a sauce or a jam , this is not significant . That being said , if you are using frozen raspberries in the first place , you are obviously not looking for a perfectly intact raspberry , you are using them for some other purpose . Therefor , refreezing is no big deal . I recently answered another question about freezing and refreezing , and how it is basically a myth that it renders the refrozen product inedible . Any time you freeze you know that you are not going to get ' exactly ' the same product when you thaw it , and the same goes with refreezing , there is always a ' slight ' degredation of the product with each successive freeze ( do you like my liberal usage of quotes ? ) You wo n't poison yourself or anything like that , you should have no worries . That being said , what are you doing with the berries ? Certainly a refrozen raspberry should be no worse that a raspberry frozen once .
The change in flavor is mainly affected by packaging and how long before it gets frozen . Packaging : If you have vacuum sealed chicken it will last quite a while . It wo n't get freezer burnt , dry out or pick up flavors from other freezer occupants . I would say properly packaged will last months to a year range depending on your taste buds . Time before freezing : I have a habit of buying meat to cook right away , but end up freezing it raw several days after the fact . I then see it a week or two later and pull it out to cook . It never tastes as good as when I freeze it immediately .
I think it 's because freezing tend to dry things out . At lukewarm temperature , it 's still ' steaming ' a bit , which means evaporating liquid , so losing moist . If you can stop the drying out process at that point , the pastry wo n't be as dry as when you let it cool completely . Of course , a too high temperature can do harm to already frozen things , or would cause condensation in the package , so that there would be ice formed . This could be the reason , and therefore , the statement can be true .
Water freezes at 0 ° C ( or 32 ° F ) , but ethanol freezes at -114 ° C , so you can guess your vermouth with freeze somewhere in between those two temperatures . Noilly Prat is 18 % ABV , or 15 % alcohol by weight , which means it would freeze at around -6 ° C to -7 ° C , or 19-21 ° F. Your freezer may or may not be tuned to be that cold , but if not , you should be able to crank it a bit and get your Noilly Prat just frozen . That said , I would not really recommend leaving an ice cube tray full of vermouth hanging out in your freezer . You may notice that old ice tastes funny . Even though you may not notice your freezer smelling , that 's partly because the cold blocks smells . Just because you do n't notice them does n't mean the odors are n't there to ruin your Noilly Prat . I would recommend leaving them for a day until just frozen ( covered if you like ) , and then moving them to a Ziploc for long term storage . All that said , freezing will not halt oxidation altogether , but it will help , as only the exposed surfaces areas should be able to be oxidized . Since ice cubes by design have a relatively high surface area , you may consider minimizing the exposure to oxygen by other means . If you have a vacuum sealer , using that would be a fairly simple means to limit that exposure , but a similar effect can be done with a simple Ziploc bag , as described <URL> ( note this link is focused on using this technique for cooking , but it is translatable to your scenario ) . Drop your ice cubes in a bag , and then slowly lower the bag into a container of cold water ( the colder the better , here , to minimize melting ) , leaving the seal exposed . I sometimes <URL> things onto the bag to weigh it down as well . Then begin closing the seal , and lower the bag further into the water as you continue sealing , so that only the unsealed portion is exposed . Finally complete the seal and you should have a reasonably low-oxygen environment to mitigate further degradation of your vermouth .
To expand michaels answer ( assuming that you want strawberry icecream and not pieces of strawberry mixed in ) . If you are making a custard ice cream , leave the amount of egg yolks the same , because you want the lecithin from them . Reduce the sugar somewhat , because fruit is sweet . Then decide how much fruit puree you want ( maybe 1/3 the volume of the dairy part ) . Adjust the volume of the dairy so that the liquid is correct . Adjust the fat of the dairy so that the fat content is correct . Example , you start with the recipe for vanilla ice cream French ( = custard ) style by Lebovitz . 1 cup ( 250ml ) whole milk ; A pinch of salt ; 3/4 cup ( 150g ) sugar ; 1 vanilla bean , split lengthwise ; 2 cups ( 500ml ) heavy cream ; 5 large egg yolks ; 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract This recipe has 185g fat ( I calculated with 30 % fat in the cream ) , 460g dry matter ( this is both fat and non-fat ) and yields 990g ice cream ( rounded a bit ) . Let 's say that you decide to use 200g strawberry puree . 200g strawberry puree has 10g sugars , 18g dry matter and no fat . A mixture of 5 yolks , 140g sugar ( if you want , you can look at the fructose sweetness coefficient and change the sugar accordingly , but I think this is n't so much of a problem if we just substitute the 10g from strawberries ) , 200g strawberry puree and some salt and vanilla has 25g fat , 225g dry matter and weighs 430g ( rounded ) . You could create two equation systems , the first for the total volume of the dairy mixture needed , and the second one for the ratio of cream to milk , and solve these to get to a mixture with the original ratio . fatamount/total = fatpercentage liquidamount/total = liquidpercentage fatpercentage + liquidpercentage + nonfatdrypercentage = 1 where you know fatamount , liquidamount and nonfatdrypercentage is around 0.1 ( actually 0.08 for milk only and 0.12 for cream only , but we do n't need so much precision ) . Solve for total , then calculate fatpercentage . 0.3 * cream + 0.04 * milk = fatpercentage * ( milk + cream ) milk + cream = total I will take a shortcut here . I specified almost as much strawberries as milk . They have no fat ( unlike milk ) , but a similar ( actually higher ) amount of dry mass . So let 's see what happens when we keep the 500g cream and turn the 50g difference between strawberries and milk into cream too ( because we suspect we want some more fat ) . Then we have 190 g fat , 290g dry matter and 980g ice cream base . At 19.38 % fat , we are above the ratio given in the article , but close to the original ratio ( and I suspect that the article might be about Philadelphia style ice cream , which has less fat ) . The 29.59 % dry matter are again outside of the article recommendation , but close to the original recipe . In fact , I assume that well emulsified fat can prevent ice crystal creation , so the higher liquid content does n't create problems here ( also note that McGee gives a 10-20 % range for fat in ice cream , not 7-12 % ) . Long story short : do n't add fruit puree , it is mostly water . Substitute puree for milk , calculate the new percentage of fat and dry matter ( use the 7-12 % fat and 37-42 % liquid for a recipe without emulsifiers , you can be freer if you have emulsifiers ; egg yolk counts as emulsifier ) . If you are still not there , try the calculation with less puree , or increase the fat and/or dry matter until you are in the recommended range . Or just start with the equations . NB # 1 I did n't check my calculations , could have a mistake there . But the principle should be correct . NB # 2 I calculated with cream density of 1 . This was somewhat surprising , but the nutrition data for cream I found insists that a cup of cream ( 240 ml ) weighs 238 g , so the difference is small enough to not go to the trouble to convert . A recipe given by volume probably ( hopefully ) has some leeway , so this should n't skew the results into a bad recipe .
Non-native and out of season fruits and vegetables that are available in northern countries ( e.g. UK , Canada ) need to be shipped from far away and will be picked before they are naturally ripe ( under the normal sun and heat and getting nutrients from the soil ) . They will ripen in controlled environments ( UV lights , maybe controlled atmosphere and temperature ) to be able to be ripen on time during the long transit to be ready when they are put on shelves in your local stores . In the UK , it is currently the high season for strawberries ( I assume it is the same time as in Québec ) ; compare locally-grown strawberries to imported strawberries and compare the flavour and aromas . ( anecdotal ) A quick tip when buying imported fruits ( and vegetables ) ; keep them outside of the fridge as much as possible , and if planning to eat soon , place them in the sun for a little while and the flavours will get better .
I 've preserved cut fruit for at least 6 hours before using just lemon juice . Lemon juice inhibits the oxidation of the fruit which prevents browning as well of a loss of crispness . One lemon should be enough juice for a 1.5 quart bowl of cut fruit . Simply squeeze it over the fruit and toss gently to prevent bruising . Since you 'll be working with apples , kiwis , and bananas I think your best bet will be to keep them separate . The lemon juice will benefit both the apples and bananas , but might only be marginally effective if unnecessary for kiwi -- since kiwi brings plenty of its own citric acid to the table . The fruit should be stored in the refrigerator to additionally inhibit oxidation . In my experience covering it with plastic wrap with a few holes poked in it works great . Aluminum foil should be fine as well . I find that the covering is primarily to protect your fruit from picking up other odors from within your fridge , and the holes permit the fruit to " breathe " releasing the buildup of ethylene gas that will occur if it is completely sealed . If lemon juice is undesired you can use other citrus juices including : lime juice , orange juice , and pineapple juice . Obviously they will all bring their own flavors . If this flavoring is altogether undesired , then you should consider getting a commercial product called <URL> . It 's basically a powdered citric-acid , and kosher to boot .
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
I tried freezing tzatziki sauce but was n't happy with it when thawed as it seemed to separate easily and even when mixed thoroughly it seemed to have a different , more watery texture than when fresh . What I do now if I have cucumbers I need to use is to prepare and process them exactly as I would for fresh tzatziki sauce . I freeze the processed cucumber in 1/2 or 1 cup containers and thaw to make fresh tzatziki sauce . Works great and the added bonus is that it does n't take up as much room in the freezer .
After a quick Google search , I found <URL> that deals with this exact matter . They 'll grate well and it 's handy when ( just semi-defrost them ) you need some grated zest as you can just pull out a bag from the freezer and sprinlkle them into your recipe . They 'll juice but you need to defrost them which I 'm told is best done by ' zapping ' them in the microwave for 30 seconds . Apparently you get more juice after they 've been frozen as it bursts the cell walls releasing more juice . Hope this helps !
Summary : think of the so-called ' soft freeze ' as an extension of your refrigerator , not of your freezer . The major things that happen to frozen foods that degrade their quality are : Expansion of ice crystals during warming and cooling cycles of the freezer , degrading the texture of the food item ( making meats , for example , exude more juice or even appear weepy ) Enzymatic or chemical changes over time . These are slowed more and more the colder the freeze . Fats become rancid due to interaction with oxygen , again slowed the colder the freeze Freezer burn , as water sublimates from the food , again exacerbated by warming and cooling cycles and the freezer , and proceeding more quickly at warmer temperatures You will note that almost everything that degrades the quality of the food items proceeds faster at warmer temperatures ( even when those relatively warmer temperatures are below freezing ) . So , in general , the colder you can keep your freezer ( within reasonable limits ) , the longer the quality life of the food products stored within it . As reported by the <URL> , food is safely stored at 0 F , -10 C. All ( relevant , before someone points out cryophiles ) bacteria are dormant at these temperatures . The <URL> indicates Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20 ° F . At temperatures between 0 and 32 ° F , food deteriorates more rapidly . Fluctuating temperatures , such as those in self-defrosting freezers , also may damage food quality . Do not plan to store frozen foods for the maximum suggested time if your freezing unit can not maintain zero degree temperatures . The soft freeze temperature of 23 F / -5 C simply does not meet these standards , and is not useful for long term freezing . So given all of this , what is the point of the soft-freeze feature of your new refrigerator ? It is to allow you to keep food ready to use fairly quickly , as meats will not generally freeze completely solid at these borderline freezing temperatures , and are quicker to warm for preparation . It allows you to hold them for longer than you could at normal refrigerator temperatures , but not to store for the long term as in freezing to the recommended temperatures . This is in line with the information given by <URL> : The Soft-Freeze temperature helps keep meats or fish fresh longer .
Some quick research indicates there are enzymes in freshly-squeezed juice that will degrade it fairly rapidly , and that they can be deactivated by heat . Of course , that also changes the flavor ( especially since you 're not going to be able to quickly heat and cool it , as it apparently only takes 30 seconds , but any method doable in a home kitchen will keep it hot much longer than that ) . So heat-deactivation is out . Even commercially-produced ( that is , both pasteurized and enzyme-deactivated ) juice is only supposed to keep 6 days in the fridge , so that 's out . Your best bet , then , is to freeze it . According to the University of California 's Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources <URL> , you can freeze in clean glass jars or rigid plastic freeze containers . They also note that navel oranges ( and their juice ) do not freeze well -- they will become bitter . Well , either that , or store the fruit instead , and only juice it as needed .
You can freeze it , however using it will be a problem as you will have to chip out what you want on demand rather than thaw and re-freeze it . Miso paste lasts ages in the fridge as long as you put it in an airtight container to prevent it from drying out , you 're better off just doing that .
The basic idea is that you want to reduce the ice crystals formed while freezing the food . Here is what I would suggest . Put a metal pan in your freezer for 30 minutes to cool . Prep your zucchini , trying to get the most surface area possible . Spread out , trying to not overlap on your pan and place back in the freezer for about an hour . Place in your freezer bag and seal with as much air out of it as possible . A completely ideal way to freeze almost all veggies or fruits is to get a cooler and some dry ice , place your cut pieces in a metal bowl inside your cooler and leave it while the dry ice does its magic . You will have minimal ice crystals while giving you the closest taste from the original .
You can freeze roux and store it up to 6 months without any problems . I put them in plastic ice-tray forms until they are frozen , then move them to a refrigerator bag . Just keep following things in mind : Leave a bit of room in the container before putting it in the freezer - roux expands when freezing . Bring it to room temperature before using it .
Fruit will settle to the bottom of the yogurt during transit anyway ; this way , it ends up neat and tidy and intentional . Many people mix it together just before eating if they prefer a more blended flavor .
I can honestly say I 've done this on many occasions . Especially for pizza dough , I defrost in the fridge for 24 hours in a cling filmed bowl which allows it to prove slowly through the day . Never once had an issue with it .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
Of course you can freeze meat . If it would be unsafe , your local supermarked would n't be allowed to sell it . What you have to keep in mind when freezing your own meat : Storage time is limited , for guidelines see <URL> or <URL> . Freezing does nor remove bacteria , mold and other " nasties " , but stops them from multiplying . Rule of thumb : What 's on the meat when it goes into the freezer comes out again . So follow the usual safety procedures for raw meat before and after freezing . ----- EDIT ------ As the subject of fat going rancid has come up several times in comments : That 's one of the reasons the recommended freezing time for bacon is 1-2 months only , for game meat up to 8-12 months . Rule of thumb : The fattier the shorter .
end question
start question
How much is " a ladleful " ?
Every sourdough starter has different characteristics , a ladleful of one will give a different result from the same amount of another . The recipe is right in that there 's no way to say what result you are going to get , so why be exact . The point I would make is that you want repeatibility , and the capability to adjust your amounts over time to suit your taste . So whatever you use to get it out ( ladle , spoon , measuring cup , hand ) I would weigh and record how much starter you use , you can add more or less and see how you get . As long as you keep using the same starter you can adjust to your taste .
Use about 2-3tbsp for a ' normal portion ' , and reduce that by the same factor as you reduce the portion for your daughter , e.g. if your daughter 's portion is half the size , use 1tbsp . Remember you can always add oil , but you ca n't take it away ( not easily anyway ) , so err on the side of caution and whack a bit more in if it seems necessary .
Every sourdough starter has different characteristics , a ladleful of one will give a different result from the same amount of another . The recipe is right in that there 's no way to say what result you are going to get , so why be exact . The point I would make is that you want repeatibility , and the capability to adjust your amounts over time to suit your taste . So whatever you use to get it out ( ladle , spoon , measuring cup , hand ) I would weigh and record how much starter you use , you can add more or less and see how you get . As long as you keep using the same starter you can adjust to your taste .
Olive oil degrades over time so freshness is important . Some of the higher priced olive oils sit on shelves for a very long time and by time they are sold they can be of lower quality than some mass produced olive oils . I 'd say you 're in the right frame of mind and would recommend finding a brand with a local representative who can trust and know the source and timing of the oil . Many smaller olive oil producers do n't bother with organic certification because of cost , but they have same or better standards . Therefore there is a sweet-spot where you can get quality olive oil similar to organics at decent prices . Keep in mind good olive oil is produced in many places , including Greece , Spain , and Lebanon . Not just Italy .
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
There is a lot of water in the milk . The high heat turns the water into steam . The egg and flour contains proteins and gluten that forms a " net " . The steam ca n't escape without pushing the net upwards . This makes the dough rise . It helps that the container is a narrow cylinder .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
i am celiac , ideally you should clean your entire kitchen , clean out your silverware and utensil drawers and wash all utensils in the dishwasher . Wipe all surfaces and sinks with bleach wipes . Scrub all pots and pans , to remove gluten films then wash in dishwasher . give all dishes to be used a run through the dishwasher . off limit items are , seasoned pans ( cast iron , or porcelain ) , earthenware , pasta pots , strainers , toasters , cooking stones , wood spoons or utensils , cutting boards , blenders and crockpots . to avoid contamination use fresh mayo , mustard , peanut butter jars , etc. . do not use any ingredients such as sugar that may have been contaminated with flour from use while baking . because you are not familiar with ingredients that contain gluten , use only pure ingredients if you are cooking for your celiac guest . avoid spice blends . <URL> hope this was a bit of help .
The only way to test for capsaicin besides tasting is chemical testing , namely liquid chromatography . Problem is , the same kind of chili can be quite different in heat , even on the same bush it can be quite different from my experience . No idea why , though . Here is one tip on how to check the heat of a chili without actually eating part of it , but still cutting it apart : Cut through the chili below the stem , touch the membranes , touch your tongues , feel the heat . <URL> You can adjust the amount of heat a chili adds to the dish by removing the white membranes . Just add the colored flesh , check for heat , and add membranes until the desired spiciness is obtained . Capsaicin is only produced in the white mebranes in the center . It may move inside the fruit , though . Areas closer to the membranes will be hotter ( like , the seeds ) , than other parts .
There are a number of factors that will contribute to how well the salt penetrates the interior of the piece of fish including thickness of the fish , types of tissue that have to be penetrated , and length of brine . The skin creates a significant barrier to salt penetration and the solution will penetrate the meat from its face and from its leaner side . After brining there will be more salt near the lean face than near the skin area . In order to get the most even salt penetration remove the skin , cut the pieces thin like sushi or ceviche , and brine in a 15 % salt solution for 2-3 hours . For even penetration you need even contact on both sides of the meat so you either need to suspend the pieces in the solution , or flip them at regular intervals . The surface will always be saltier than the core , but with thinner pieces and sufficient time the difference will be negligible . If you want to use larger pieces you will need to extend the time . Consider combining a soaking brine with injections of the brine solution into the meat itself . You could brine any kind of fish that you would find in a sushi restaurant , just make sure it is as fresh as possible . EDIT : After reading <URL> comment I was able to find <URL> which states that salted herring typically has a salt concentration of 7-13 % , however <URL> leads me to believe that a dry cure then brine combination may be responsible for the higher salt concentration . According an <URL> about hams and sausages , wet curing methods can reach salt concentrations up to 26 % , but maximum weight gain is reached with a salt concentration around 5 % . The first site also notes that salt concentrations above 7 % are considered unpalatable by most people .
I would shred one or both leaves ( depending on size ) and garnish the soup right before eating it .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
I make bacon and other cured meats frequently . I find that the amount of liquid released from pork belly varies . That is not a useful measure of how the cure is proceeding . Bacon , in particular , is usually cooked after the cure , so I do n't worry too much . I use the salt-box method , coat the belly in cure mixture , place in large zip lock , place in container slightly larger than belly and put in fridge . Flip every day or so for a week . What I look for next is a firming up of the belly . I pinch it . If it has firmed up after a week , I move on to hot smoking ( or you could use your oven ) . If it still feels soft , I give it another day or two .
Typically dry beans expand 2-3 times their original volume when soaked , depending on their age ( fresher beans have more moisture left than older ones and expand less ) . I usually put them in a large pot and cover them with at least 5-6cm of water above .
The water pan does affect humidity in the cooking chamber and therefore , it does change the how quickly moisture evaporates out of the meat . The question really becomes - " Will the meat be moist enough without the water pan ? " Which , to a degree , is personal preference . Some choose to not use a water pan and baste instead , some use both and some neither . I would recommend trial and error . Brisket is relatively pricey so I would recommend using pork shoulders . Smoke one with the pan and one without and see if you think the moisture content is satisfactory . The briskets wo n't cook exactly the same but the relative moisture level in the shoulders should give you a decent estimate . I personally always use a water pan , but I do n't usually fear meat from a smoker being " too moist " , and it does wonders for temperature stabilization . I also have a larger smoking chamber than a WSM so it 's possible that too moist is a larger concern for you . One last note , while cooking too hot for too long will inevitably dry out your meat , cutting a brisket or shoulder without letting it set for at least an hour ( ideally 2 ) after cooking will also dry it out .
Cooks Illustrated apparently <URL> to a lab for analysis : We were also interested in finding out how much sodium penetrates during the process . To answer the question , we brined natural pork chops and boneless , skinless chicken breasts in standard quick-brine solutions of 1/2 cup table salt dissolved in 2 quarts of cold water . After 30 minutes , we removed the pork and chicken , patted them dry , and cooked them in different skillets . We also cooked an " enhanced " pork chop ( injected with a saltwater solution ) and a kosher chicken breast that had been salted during processing . We sent the samples to a food lab to measure sodium content . The brined pork chops had a sodium content of 245 milligrams per 100 grams of meat ( just under 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) ; the enhanced pork had a bit more , with 268 milligrams . The kosher chicken breast weighed in at 252 milligrams of sodium . The brined chicken came in with the most sodium of all , at 353 milligrams ( just over 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) . The USDA recommends limiting your daily sodium intake to 2,300 milligrams , about 1 teaspoon . Why did the chicken absorb more salt during brining than the pork ? The loose white muscle fibers in chicken absorb salt water more quickly than the tighter muscle fibers in pork .
Tough question - there are a lot of non-scientific ways to measure small/medium/large potatoes and nobody seems to agree on exactly what weight each is . However , there are a few ways I identify large vs medium at home . In my experience , a large potato is about the size you would get in a restaurant ( I know , not very specific ) . That is , when I cook at home , the potatoes I purchase tend to be medium - round ( not oval ) and about the size of a tennis ball or baseball . When I 'm at a restaurant their potatoes are noticeably larger , and generally more oval shaped it seems ( closer to a sweet potato in shape and size ) , which makes them great for stuffing like for a loaded baked potato . Luckily most of the recipes I have at home that involve potatoes do n't require precise measurement , so I just stick with my eyeball measurements and do n't even bother weighing them . I found a source online that says this : According to Shape magazine , eatbetteramerica.com and prevention , a medium potato is the size of a computer mouse , so somewhat bigger than that . And I think I can get behind that answer . I 'd say your average computer mouse ( like , one you would get with a new PC , not a fancy third-party mouse ) is about the size of an average medium potato . Another way to eyeball : I 'm a 30 year old male with hands that are neither very large or very small . The medium potatoes in this bag are about the size of a loose fist for me . So a large potato would be bigger than either of those things . As for measurements , I have a bag of medium potatoes and it says they 're 5.3 oz ( 150g ) a piece . I weighed one and it was closer to 6.5 oz ( 185g ) . Based on that I 'd say a large potato would be anything over 8oz ( 225g ) , pushing as high as 12oz ( 340g ) . I found a way to search online for this info : calories . By searching for " large potato calories " I was able to find pages with weights and measures : <URL> <URL> So , in short , it seems like I would consider these good numbers : Medium potato : 2 to 3 " in diameter , 5-8oz ( 140-225g ) Large potato : 3 to 4.25 " in diameter , 8-12oz ( 225-340g ) Below is a picture of the medium potato from my bag , compared to some common household/kitchen items . The gift card is the size of a normal credit card , and the knife is a common steak knife from my utensil drawer . Apparently a medium potato is almost exactly the size of a 1 cup measure !
In this <URL> video he uses a " knob " of butter . It appears to be about 2 Tbsp . I do n't think it 's intended to be a specific term . You 'd never see " knob " used for baking , where exact amounts matter . When cooking , recipes tend to be a general guideline rather than a strict set of instructions .
2kg of veal bones cut up for stock use from your butcher should need around 5 litre of water to cover . If you use more then you 're just thinning the stock and that 'll mean you need to reduce it more later to get the same flavour you would have had if you started with the correct amount of water . Why does this matter you may ask ... well , along with the longer reduction time you 'll taste changes to the flavour more as time goes by . You 're cooking it longer and the heat changes things , sometimes for the bad , sometimes for the good . Mainly it 's just wasted time reducing something that did n't need to happen . When all is said and done after simmering for around 6 hours , you 'll end up with about 3-4 litres of quality stock if you went with a 2kg :5 L ratio . If you use more water to start then you 'll end up with more stock but of low quality . Then you 'll spend your time reducing the stock down until it starts to taste like the stock that you could have made with 5L of water .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
end question
start question
How to make smooth ice cream flavored with fresh fruit ?
Preface : I 'm not a big fan of fruit-flavored stuff ( I like fresh fruit by itself , just not in stuff ... ) so I ca n't speak to these from personal experience . For fresh fruit , puree in a blender or similar . Moist fruits can probably be pureed in their own juices ; otherwise , you 'll need to add some . You 'll probably want to add some sugar , but offset this by reducing the sugar you add to the ice cream mix . ( Seeds might be an issue too - get seedless if possible . ) As Manako suggested , you can also cook it down and then puree , though this will result in a wetter mixture than with their natural juices alone . This will also present a different flavor profile from the fresh fruit , so experiment to find what you like . Another possibility would be to cook out some of the water from your puree . In any case , you 'll want to reduce the liquid ingredients of your normal recipe by roughly the same amount as the pureed fruit you 're adding . In light of the previous item , you 'll probably want to use a higher-fat cream than normal , since the fruit will add a lot of water . Unlike " chunky " additions , you do n't really care that the ice cream should be at a thick consistency before you add them . ( for suspension ) I 'd just add it directly to the mix before you start churning .
You want to make a " mint infusion " . Googling this will give you many recipes . Basically you brew the mint like herbal tea : Remove stems , Bruise the leaves a little , Add the leaves to a cup of very hot water , Let steep for a few minutes , strain and throw away the mushy leaves and use the liquid for your flavoring . The liquid will be brown as you are destroying the chlorophyll that makes the leaves green . In most applications I add food coloring to fix this . As you are making chocolate mint ice cream this should not be a problem . Save some of your mint leaves to use as a garnish . I love chocolate mint and I am very excited for you having a bumper crop of it .
Reading through the <URL> on that episode of Good Eats it seems that he intended for the recipe to be done with the ice cream type rock salt : I also like plain old rock salt . Not only is it good for de-snowing , de-icing your , your front stoop , it 's good for , of course , making ice cream , and believe it or not , for baking stuff . That being said , I would personally feel fine using the rock salt since it does n't come in direct contact with the edible portion of the shrimp . But if I were buying bulk salt specifically to salt bake I 'd err on the side of caution and purchase <URL> which has very coarse grains and is safe for consumption .
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
First , you do n't specify if you mean cream of coconut , or coconut milk . I think coconut milk would be the thing to try here , as it has less fat . Second , if it works , it wo n't be bechamel any more . But this is a technical detail : if it is tasty to you , you should be able to use it as a substitution practically everywhere . Third , does it work ? I have n't tried it , but I would strongly assume that it will . Coconut milk has more fat than normal milk , but this is n't a terrible problem for roux-based sauces . Indeed , I have read recipes ( in reliable cookbooks ) which direct the cook to add melted butter to the roux before or after adding the liquid . Which means that the fat ratio in the sauce is n't too exact ; it is the ratio of flour to water which you have to keep straight . The one thing to pay attention to is that coconut fat melts around 34-35 ° C . So your coconut roux sauce will exhibit noticeable difference in thickness depending on the temperature . As long as you serve it warm , it will be a similar thickness to bechamel . If you let it go cold , it will probably thicken quite a bit . If you plan to serve it cold , adjust the flour amount accordingly .
Cranberries have a ton of pectin - which is one reason why cranberry jelly is so prevalent . Just simmer the cranberries , sugar , and orange juice together for a while and they will eventually gel . I do n't know how the liqueur will behave but if it was supposed to be served raw then you probably would want to add it after boiling so the alcohol would n't boil off . Of course - you wo n't be able to call this a " raw fruit relish " anymore - it would become a pretty standard cranberry sauce recipe . If you want to keep the berries raw then I would recommend combining the sugar and orange juice with some other thickener such as corn starch or gelatin .
I take the question to mean how you can best preserve the fresh-made texture with microwaving ? I would make , cool and store ravioli in single layers on parchment/waxpaper in a container for transport . Separately , the sauce transported in largest microve-safe container that will fit in office micowave . Heat sauce to boiling then gently add in ravioli and continue to reheat on defrost if stirring would damage ravioli , or higher setting if you can stir halfway through time .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
" Sea Salt ice cream " is the one I 've heard about . It 's literally flavored by sea salt . Online recipes are often themed around the game series Kingdom Hearts , in which a main character enjoys this treat . That ought to be enough to help your search :)
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Water has one of the highest heat capacities available : <URL> Your ceramic is not going to hold nearly as much heat as the water bath itself . If you are finding that your bath is cooling too quickly then you are better off investigating your cooler .
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
When I buy hot chilies , I look for firm , uniformly bright ( or dark , depending on the type ) green specimens . Unless I 'm in a big hurry , I pick through the pile and choose them individually . I avoid any that are soft , discolored ( including the ends ) , missing caps ( the part that attaches to the stem -- they spoil faster after this is removed ) , wrinkly or otherwise look damaged or old . If your store does n't have any that look bright green , crisp and plump , try to find a new place to buy them , or just buy them in smaller quantities and get the least disreputable specimens and use them immediately . You want to buy chilies from a place that has a high turnover on them and most supermarket produce sections do n't really do that much business in hot peppers , so they tend to sit for a while . My favorite place to buy green chilies is at Indian markets ( the busier , the better for turnover ) , second favorite is other Asian food markets , then other specialty markets from places that like spicy food , then farmers ' markets , then a long way down the list , regular grocery stores . When I get them home , I clean them off by hand ( remove any stray leaves or any bad ones I accidentally missed , etc ) and put them in the fridge in a lightly closed baggie . If I bought a large amount ( or if I happen to be growing them and have a lot ripe at once ) , I will sometimes freeze them . I have a small bag of frozen habaneros at home right now . The texture is most definitely affected by freezing , but the flavor is n't ( unless you keep them so long that they get freezer-burned ) , so if you are planning to cook with them , freezing is perfectly fine . I usually do n't wash them before storing , just pick them over . I wash them just before using them , whether I get them from the garden , the store , the fridge or the freezer . If I have chilies I 'm not sure about , I do smell and taste them to see if they are ok . If they feel/smell/taste weird , I do n't put them in the dish . I 'd rather replace green chilies with red pepper powder instead of using something iffy .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
You could serve it with a lemon curd tart , making sure to keep down the amount of sugar in the curd . Or just some lemon sorbet , that would also go well I think .
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
It is possible to use a rice cooker to prepare rice from boxes but it is not optimal . These box rices typically call for the mixture to be first browned in butter before adding water and flavoring because it is not all rice . There are bits of pasta in the mixture too . The rice cooker is able to cook it but the result probably will not be as good . It is very possible to flavor white rice with seasoning . I often like to flavor my rice if I plan on making fried rice or if I am lazy and do n't feel like making anything but rice . If you want to imitate a specific flavor , you need to first find out exactly what that flavour is and put that seasoning in the water that cook the rice . Often though there might be some flavors that ca n't be added until afterwards . Such as the cheese flavored rice you mentioned . Cheese and rice cookers do n't mix . You would make the rice then later add a cheese sauce that you made . Please note that one main difference that might occur is slight difference in moisture content . From the box rice I 've made on the stove in the past , I know it is a bit more " wet " than rice made from a rice cooker . In my answer <URL> , I explained how a rice cooker works . Essentially it will continue to cook until all the water has boiled away .
If you have raw milk and let it sit , the cream will indeed rise to the top . To separate , you can just wait and skim off the cream as you did . However , if you store the raw milk in the refrigerator , it will take longer for the cream to rise . Perhaps that is why you are having difficulties . Alternatively , you can use a spigot jar to drain the " skimmed " milk from the raw milk , leaving the cream behind . I think you end up with about 1/10th of your raw milk that is cream .
end question
start question
How can I cure and store bacon in a warm climate ?
Most bacon home curing methods you will read use a semi-dry cure where the bacon is covered in a cure mixture then allowed to sit in the resulting brine made of salts , sugars , and exuded liquid from the meat . This is probably due to the fact that most people are more comfortable using their fridge and are also only making a small amount of bacon . The key to what you are looking for is dry curing with drainage . By using a cure mixture which includes nitrates ( traditional ) or nitrites ( modern ) as well as a draining board or table you produce a quickly cured meat product that is stable and can be produced at higher than fridge temperatures . The drawbacks are that the final product will have a greater loss of meat weight due to the loss of water , the product will have more pronounced flavor , and will be saltier but it will also be better preserved . This method is best for meats that will not be cooked but smoked and air-dryed or just air-dryed . It is the best curing method for people living in hot climate or having no refrigeration . In the South , bacon and ham production is something that was traditionally done in the late Autumn to take advantage of the natural cooling to reduce spoilage during the air drying portion of the curing process . The second traditional foodway that allowed bacon to be a staple in the South was the use of <URL> . Method : To guarantee continuous supply of salt and uninterupted curing of the meat , the dry curing is performed in a few stages . The cure ingredients should be thoroughly mixed . The mix should be rubbed into the meat at a ratio of 1:100 , curing salt mixture to meat , by weight . During this initial salting of the meat , it is important to thoroughly cover all surface of the meat piece with the salt mixture , because the high salt level and the cooler temperatures are the only means of protection against the growth of spoilage bacteria . Then the meats would then be packed tightly in a container with larger pieces like hams on the bottom and smaller pieces on the top so that each piece will retain its shape . The meats are packed skin down . Liquid drawn from the meat will accumulate on the bottom of the container and if the holes were made it would drain off . ( If you want to experiment with smaller amounts of meat you can perform this part of the process on a flat tray set at an angle to allow juices to drain away or in a perforated pan . ) The rule of thumb is 2 days of curing for each pound of original meat weight . Flip the meat after 3 days , and then again every 7 days thereafter , making sure that there is salt covering the entire surface . ( For bacon that would be stored for a long time or subject to higher temperatures they would most likely overhaul the cure , replacing the salt mixture 1 or more times during the process . ) After curing is complete , the meat pieces must be rinsed in fresh water to remove any crystalized salt that accumulates on the surface that would prevent sucessful smoke penetration . Blot dry then hang the meats or place on wire mesh to dry overnight . Store meat in a refrigerator or cool root cellar overnight or for up to 2 days . Allowing the bacon to dry uncovered in a cool place the night before you plan to smoke it encourages smoke retention through <URL> formation . At this point you would smoke the bacon and then let it air dry in a cool barn ( during Autumn and Winter ) or a root cellar . Like country hams , the bacon would likely be stored by hanging it in the root cellar in a muslin sack . Bacon produced this way is saltier than modern bacon . If you find it too salty , you can blanch it in simmering water for 30-60 seconds immediately before frying to reduce the salt . <URL>
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
Harms ? Meh , that 's silliness . You can make your own fizzy water if you 're so inclined . <URL> . If you really do n't want fizzy , then just substitute still water in any of the recipes in a search for <URL> . Choose recipes that use soda water , club soda or seltzer water , not ginger ale . Ginger ale adds flavor , you want recipes that stand without that flavor . EDIT : Just to be clear ; soda water , club soda or seltzer water are all just water , injected with carbon dioxide to make bubbles ( carbonation ) . So by substituting regular water for soda water , club soda or seltzer water all you 're losing is the " fizzy " . ( Club soda may have a tiny amount of something like baking soda to neutralize the decrease in PH caused by the carbonation , <URL> gets further into it , but for all practical purposes , they are all just bubble water . )
I addition to what Tabiasopdenbrouw said , and more to the point of usage/taste : Bacon is typically cut thinner and ends up crispier than pancetta . Both are often rendered for their fat before adding onions , peppers , etc. . . to the pan to pick up those pork fat flavors . Pancetta is often saltier in flavor though this is usually the case because the pancetta is cut thicker or into dices , so you get bigger bites of it and thus more salt . This is the biggest different between the two .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Cutting bacon into cubes was a regular prep task for me when I was cooking professionally , so I got very fast at it . Here are the tricks I found : Fully cooked ( baked ) bacon cuts MUCH faster and cleaner , and you can make perfect cubes Do n't use a serrated knife . It 'll be easier to cut with , but it will shred and fray the bacon as you slice , eventually making a mess . Use the sharpest knife you have , especially for uncooked bacon . There 's already a tendency for it to slip and slide around , and a sharp knife cuts with less back-and-forth motion . You want a deep-bellied knife such as a santoku or Chinese cleaver , because you can slice through multiple stacks of bacon at once . Stack slices of bacon so you can cut multiple pieces at once . Try to work with 4 " by 4 " blocks of bacon , so the pieces are n't big enough to slip around as much . With this size you 're still able to do a lot at once , but it 's fast Organize your cutting board . Pick one corner for whole chunks of bacon , then cut into strips and move to another spot , then finally into cubes which goes in another spot . Now if I were a culinary school , you 'd have paid a few hundred bucks to learn what I just told you .
In Germany we have an old ( joking ) saying that roughly translates to " head off , tail off - bunny " , so your question is legitimate . But first thing 's first : There is no health risk involved if you ate the latest shipment of " meowling rabbit " . ( To cat lovers everywhere : This is no endorsement , I have a much loved and pampered cat , too ! ) The most obvious differences are head ( look at the teeth ! ) , tail ( short vs. long ) , and feet ( cat claws are quite distinctive ) . But I suspect these would be removed prior to sale , so we 'd have to dig a bit deeper into anatomy : Shoulder blades : Cats ' shoulder blades are rounded on top , especially in the front , making the shoulder blade almost semicircular with the ridge making for two differently shaped parts , rabbits ' shoulder blades are triangular with the ridge somewhat parallel to the front side . Femur ( thigh bone ) : A cat 's femora are straight , whereas a rabbit 's is more or less bent , especially pronounced in older animals . Same applies to a lesser extent to radius and ulna ( forearm ) , but they might have been removed . Ribs : Cats ' ribs are " rounder " than rabbits ' ribs according to <URL> . I ca n't say by how much , but <URL> 's comment below suggests the difference is obvious enough to play a significant role in the novel/movie <URL> . Pelvis : The same source as above states that the <URL> ( = the loop-like opening near/below the hip joint ) is oval in rabbits and round in cats . I could n't find a good picture to show this , though . Here 's a rabbit : Source : <URL> And a cat :
According to <URL> , yes , you can make your own matzo meal by the obvious method of putting some crumbled matzo sheets into the food processor . She notes that you will get about 1/2 cup from two sheets . Farfel can be made simply by breaking the matzo into appropriately sized pieces . <URL> explains that it is easiest to do it by hand to get the uniform size . <URL> even says that is all farfel is : broken up matzo .
Capsaicin is oil/fat-soluble so try washing your hands with a little whole milk , or rub with sour cream or vegetable oil and see if that helps . Just as you can get it in your eyes if you rub them with your fingers , I 'm sure you can easily transfer it to your baby . I 'm just surmising here , not speaking from experience so if you try any of these , be sure to let us know how they worked ... or what you did instead .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
The standard recommended temperature for a home freezer is 0 ° F ( -18 ℃ ) . Regular ice cream keeps best at -5 ° F to 0 ° F. However , the proper storage temperature for soft serve ice cream is 18 ° F ( -7 ℃ ) . While you could raise the temperature of your freezer to accommodate this , it really would n't be recommended for the rest of your frozen foods . Short of that , your best option would be to get a tiny freezer just for your soft serve so that you can keep it at at higher temperature without risking the quality of your other food .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
Rose petals are edible . If you look for rose petal recipes , you will find many creative uses of them , including rice pudding with roses - so your pudding intuition was correct . During colonial American times they were considered a treat . You can candy rose petals with egg whites and sugar - typical cautions about appropriate raw egg white useage applies . Before using your rose petals in culinary applications , make sure to remember what chemicals you used on them . If they 've been sprayed with pesticides , you do n't want to be eating them .
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
Do you have any other alcohol ( cooking or otherwise ) in the house ? A dry white wine could work . I usually have rice wine ( Japanese , Chinese ) or Sake around as I do a lot of Asian cooking , that would easily work too .
Most bacon home curing methods you will read use a semi-dry cure where the bacon is covered in a cure mixture then allowed to sit in the resulting brine made of salts , sugars , and exuded liquid from the meat . This is probably due to the fact that most people are more comfortable using their fridge and are also only making a small amount of bacon . The key to what you are looking for is dry curing with drainage . By using a cure mixture which includes nitrates ( traditional ) or nitrites ( modern ) as well as a draining board or table you produce a quickly cured meat product that is stable and can be produced at higher than fridge temperatures . The drawbacks are that the final product will have a greater loss of meat weight due to the loss of water , the product will have more pronounced flavor , and will be saltier but it will also be better preserved . This method is best for meats that will not be cooked but smoked and air-dryed or just air-dryed . It is the best curing method for people living in hot climate or having no refrigeration . In the South , bacon and ham production is something that was traditionally done in the late Autumn to take advantage of the natural cooling to reduce spoilage during the air drying portion of the curing process . The second traditional foodway that allowed bacon to be a staple in the South was the use of <URL> . Method : To guarantee continuous supply of salt and uninterupted curing of the meat , the dry curing is performed in a few stages . The cure ingredients should be thoroughly mixed . The mix should be rubbed into the meat at a ratio of 1:100 , curing salt mixture to meat , by weight . During this initial salting of the meat , it is important to thoroughly cover all surface of the meat piece with the salt mixture , because the high salt level and the cooler temperatures are the only means of protection against the growth of spoilage bacteria . Then the meats would then be packed tightly in a container with larger pieces like hams on the bottom and smaller pieces on the top so that each piece will retain its shape . The meats are packed skin down . Liquid drawn from the meat will accumulate on the bottom of the container and if the holes were made it would drain off . ( If you want to experiment with smaller amounts of meat you can perform this part of the process on a flat tray set at an angle to allow juices to drain away or in a perforated pan . ) The rule of thumb is 2 days of curing for each pound of original meat weight . Flip the meat after 3 days , and then again every 7 days thereafter , making sure that there is salt covering the entire surface . ( For bacon that would be stored for a long time or subject to higher temperatures they would most likely overhaul the cure , replacing the salt mixture 1 or more times during the process . ) After curing is complete , the meat pieces must be rinsed in fresh water to remove any crystalized salt that accumulates on the surface that would prevent sucessful smoke penetration . Blot dry then hang the meats or place on wire mesh to dry overnight . Store meat in a refrigerator or cool root cellar overnight or for up to 2 days . Allowing the bacon to dry uncovered in a cool place the night before you plan to smoke it encourages smoke retention through <URL> formation . At this point you would smoke the bacon and then let it air dry in a cool barn ( during Autumn and Winter ) or a root cellar . Like country hams , the bacon would likely be stored by hanging it in the root cellar in a muslin sack . Bacon produced this way is saltier than modern bacon . If you find it too salty , you can blanch it in simmering water for 30-60 seconds immediately before frying to reduce the salt . <URL>
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
Potatoes and the plants foliage are a feast for a lot of insects , some good some not so good , but as far as I 'm aware none that will do you any harm . As bmargulies said , do n't worry overly about it . If you 're ' really ' interested , you can take a look at this site , see if you can spot your ' badguy ' :) <URL>
end question
start question
Difference between ground cloves and clove powder ?
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
Unfortunately , some of the answer depends on how you define " bacon " , and what you mean by " cured " , and " uncured " . The answer could be different depending on where you live . Are you in the UK ? The USA ? Another country ? I know that what we call bacon can be from different cuts of pork in different regions . Curing can be different depending on where you live , or what flavors the person doing the curing likes to use . There will be salt involved in the curing , and again , depending on where you live and the customs/regulations involved , and often some source of nitrate or nitrite , to prevent some nasty bacteria . A pleasant side effect of these additions is the deepening of the red/pink color many of us associate with bacon , though some of the redness of the meat is based on the diet of the animal , too . ( Whether from saltpeter , or curing salt ( a purposely colored curing salt , to distinguish it from white sodium chloride ) , or celery juice , which contains a high quantity of the same chemicals , the nitrates and nitrites are added in very tiny quantities . They do n't need much , and are usually in smaller concentrations than are found naturally in water and in leafy green vegetables ) What makes the cures taste different ( besides the saltiness ) is the other kinds of herbs , spices , and sweeteners used in the cure mixture , and whether or not the bacon is smoked , to add additional flavors . Texture wise , the main difference between cured and uncured bacon is that the uncured bacon will have a much higher water content than the cured bacon , so the fat will not be as dense .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
<URL> has a nice description of Devil 's Food Cake . Originally , Devil 's Food Cake had a medium dense texture . The colour had a reddish tint that was probably caused by baking soda reacting with cocoa powder . In fact , I have an old cookbook ( The Day by Day Cook Book , 1939 ) that contains a recipe for Red Devil 's Food Cake . This recipe calls for 2 oz . unsweetened chocolate and 1 tsp . of baking soda .
There is a wide range of pancake variants . <URL> are an egg-white leavened pancake often served with fruit and nuts , with the pancake itself being shredded for presentation . This is different than the most typical pancakes served in the US , which are not egg-white leavened , but baking powder leavened , but it is still a type of pancake .
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
Apple cider has two meanings , but they both start with raw , pressed juice from crushed apples . Soft apple cider ( normally just called cider ) is simply the pressed juice , bottled . It is cloudy from suspended apple particles , and turns brown from the oxidation , much as apples themselves do when cut and exposed to air . Hard apple cider is an alcoholic beverage made by allowing soft apple cider to ferment . Apple juice is essentially the squeezed juice from the apples that has been highly filtered to remove the suspended particulates . It is usually pasteurized to have a longer shelf life . UK Usage : Per ElendilTheTall , in the UK , the alcoholic beverage is called cider , and the other products are called simple apple juice . See also : <URL>
Pectin is a polysacharide found in the cell walls of plants . There are two main divisions of pectin used in cooking : high methoxyl ( HM ) and low methoxyl ( LM ) . The high methoxyl is used in most jam and jelly recipes . It requires sugar and acid to gel . When the pectin is dissolved out of the cell walls it is very dilute and picks up a negative charge that prevents the molecules from binding to each other and gelling . Adding sugar isolates the pectin molecules from some of the water while dding the acid removes their charge . Pectin HM is thermally reversible which means it can be set , melted , and set again . Instead of using sugar and acid to encourage gelling , low methoxyl pectin gels in the presence of calcium . It is used in glazes and reduced sugar jams . It is not thermally reversible . Pectin NH is a type of LM pectin that has been modified to be thermally reversible . The more calcium in a gel the less able that gel will be to melt . Pectin NH gels with calcium but unlike other LM pectins it requires less calcium . This would mean that it could still be melted and reshaped . The recipes that I have seen that use pectin NH both have less sugar and require remolding . From what I have seen pectin NH tends to be more expensive . It is typically used in low-sugar pastry fillings and glazes . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
If the cocktail is from the 1800 's it 's just the place of origin . Nowadays the two are both fairly strong rums . They taste almost the same except the Jamaican Rum ( where I live ) is cheaper .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
The problem is , both Sarge 's and Carmi 's answers are right depending on who is using the word . Some people use the word seasoning to just mean salt , some mean salt and pepper , and some mean " anything you want to use to bring the flavor to the desired point , including salt , pepper , lemon juice , spices , herbs , etc. " If you are dealing with someone in person , it is best to ask . With a cookbook , sometimes you can figure it out from context or from other recipes . Otherwise , you 'll have to make your own best call . In my own recipes , I will generally write " taste and adjust seasoning , adding salt and/or more lemon juice as needed " .
Shao hsing is just another romanization of mandarin Chinese ( Wade Giles ) for Shao xing : <URL>
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
<URL> ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet . They are baked on a sheet pan , sometimes sliced into wedges , sometimes cut into rounds or other shapes . They are similar to , but sweeter than American style biscuits . Biscuits ( UK usage ) or cookies ( US usage ) are very small , flat cake-like confections , usually rich in butter and sugar . They are also baked on sheet pans , in individual portions typically only a couple of inches across ( although sizes vary widely ) . They come in a myriad varieties and flavors . Typical flavorings are vanilla , chocolate , nuts , citrus . Some of the simpler varieties allow the butter flavor to come through . Biscuit ( US usage ) or tea biscuit ( UK usage , one variant ) are a type of quick bread charactarized by flat , flaky layers . They are typically cut in rounds a couple of inches across , and tend to be about an inch tall . They are usually only very lightly sweetened if sweetened at all . Tea biscuit ( UK usage , another variant ) or teacake are biscuits or cookies traditionally served with tea . They tend to be fairly neutral in flavor . Muffins ( UK usage ) or English muffins ( US usage ) are small yeast-raised breads which are griddled in rings , rather than baked in an oven . They tend to be a couple of inches across , and about half an inch tall . They are often split and served toasted . Muffins ( US usage ) or American Muffins ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet , baked in single serving portions in muffin tins ( the same pans used for cupcakes ) .
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What does melted butter do in a swiss roll recipe ?
I have never added butter to sponge sheets when making swiss rolls , jelly rolls , or anything similar in the past . It 's just straight up bread flour , sugar , and eggs . I can only think of three possible reasons why butter might be added : To improve the flavour ; To keep the sheets moist and help prevent overbaking , as any fat would be used in cake batter ; however , this is generally not a major concern in cake rolls ; or To help prevent it from sticking to the sheet ( do n't bother ; if you have this problem , use a silicone mat ) . Reasons # 2 and # 3 are n't very convincing to me , so I would only bother adding butter if you prefer the taste of swiss rolls with butter added . I do n't think butter would help with rolling at all , in fact it might make rolling more difficult on account of making the sheets more crumbly and less able to hold together under pressure .
Well you 're kinda right about it lasting a long time due to the sugar content . That will help the preserving process to the extreme . However , to be pratical you should be looking at how long the butter fat will survive in the fridge before it starts to take on funky flavours and looses it 's moisture . You 'll be fine in an air tight tub for a month or so but then flavour will suffer . If you freeze it ( it can be done but the quality will really suffer later ) you can get away with 4-6 months before freezer burn kills it . Honestly , I 'd just do smaller batches and enjoy the higher quality product . For what you save on time doing the larger batch , you 'll give up on taste and quality later .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
I have halved cake recipes before without issue . The most complicated thing to worry about is halving an odd number of eggs , but <URL> addresses that . The finished product was indistinguishable from the full recipe . Edit One thing to note . In your specific case , because it 's a two-layer cake , halving is simple because you 're only cooking a single layer . Halving other cakes , such as a pound cake , or a bundt cake involves adjustments to the cooking time . A halved cake will cook much quicker , and could possibly need a lower temperature as well as a decreased cooking time .
I 'll elaborate on Joe 's answer some . It 's a little known fact that button mushrooms ( also called common , white , or table mushrooms ) , cremini ( crimini , baby portobello , baby bella , brown mushroom ) , and portbello ( portabella ) are all the same species . Specifically , <URL> . The difference in appearance and taste is based solely on maturity . The youngest are white button mushrooms , and the oldest are the big portobello mushrooms . There can be slight differences in skin color for the portobello 's , though it tends to be darker than the stark white of the button . The mushrooms in that video are most certainly fully mature agaricus bisporus , a portobello . It 's a safe bet that anytime you see a mushroom being substituted for a " steak " , that it will be a portobello . They have a rich meaty flavor and texture that is perfectly suited for this .
The advertised reason is that the alcohol will cut some of the protein chains resulting in a fondue that is dippable and not so stringy . Obviously the alcoholic beverage of choice will also add a lot of cheese-compatible flavor as well . Fondue recipes that do n't include alcohol universally call for acid to achieve a similar effect .
Well , yes and no . A lot of recipes for semifreddo are n't truly semifreddo because they are hard frozen . Recipes like that can be fried just like ice cream . The key to fried ice cream is to hard freeze the scoops of ice cream . By definition , that is n't semifreddo , but definitions do n't seem to matter much to writers of recipes . So , if the " stuff " is hard frozen , it can be coated and fried like fried ice cream . Perhaps after being deep fried , the name " semifreddo " is more apropos .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
Pros : Higher smoking point . Regular butter 's smoking point is 325-375F while clarified butter is around 485F . But it can still smoke and burn ! However the higher smoking point means it 'll be much more applicable in terms of sauteing food without worrying about burning the butter . 100 % fat . Often times its hard to calculate the exact replacements in baking when you want to replace a fat with butter because regular butter is n't 100 % fat . Using regular butter , you would need to factor in how much extra water you are introducing into the recipe . Longer shelf life . Without the water and milk solids , the shelf life of the clarified butter will be much longer . Can even be stored without refrigeration . Cons : Less buttery flavor . The milk solids that you are removing makes up a lot of butter 's flavor . By removing this , you are removing flavor .
I am answering my own question with information I have gathered after doing some of my own research . Several hand mills claim to make peanut butter , but the mill that seems to have the best public following and reviews for flour making , the <URL> , does not claim to make peanut butter in their marketing literature . I contacted the manufacturer , and got this reply : We do not recommend doing nut butters in our mill . However , we are applying for patents on a nut butter attachment for the Country Living Mill that does a superlative job . . We hope to have it available by this Fall . We have noticed that other grain mills on the market claim nut grinding ability and even show butter coming out of their mills . We have purchased these mills and tested them and quickly realized that it was an arduous task at best to produce anything resembling nut butter ... we can do the same with out mill but feel that it is misleading and certainly unfair to make such claims . Hope this helps . Of course their answer has every reason to be biased , and not tell me if there is a good peanut butter hand press available on the market . Another popular press , the <URL> claims to make creamy peanut butter with their stainless steel burrs , and one Amazon <URL> agreed it was possible , but too messy to be worth the effort . Reviews of two different griners at <URL> seem to agree with the general consensus that hand-made peanut butter is n't the state of the art ( yet ) : The nuts would n't feed , so I had to mash them into tiny bits . At this point the bits began to feed into the grinding plates . Unfortunately , those bits never exited -- even when I loosened the grinding plates . The only peanut butter that I managed to produce was the goo stuck between the plates . -- <URL> And : My test with peanuts resulted in the grinding plates clogging almost immediately , and I produced only a few flecks of peanut butter during the five minutes of grinding . Many companies claim their handmills will grind nutbutters and oily seeds , but I 've yet to see one that was n't a miserable failure in actuality . -- <URL> I have not been able to find a single first-hand account of making peanut butter with a hand mill that said it was worth it . As already mentioned , the amazon review mentioned above said it was far too messy . Many other reviews I 've found have said the end result only vaguely resembled peanut butter -- and never creamy peanut butter . In an effort to directly answer the question at hand , though , the only feature I so far have been able to find that is required specifically for peanut butter is that the mill have steel burrs , as opposed to stone which are desirable for finely ground flour , as the stone will absorb oil from nuts , causing the system to clog . EDIT : I got an additional reply from the Country Living Grain Mill manufacturers , explaining ( in no great detail ) what is required for a nut-grinder : There are a number of factors such as the mill must reduce the nuts to a manageable size prior to grinding , and propel them with enough pressure to be squeezed out between appropriately designed grinding plates . It sounds simple , but the reality is that it 's a very tricky thing to manage .
If you want to turn your cold butter spreadable quickly , patience is about your only option . You can try microwaving it very briefly , and maybe on the " defrost " setting , but you run a strong risk of melting it too much . If I 'm thinking of the same thing you are , a butter conditioner is really just a unit that allows you to keep your butter in the fridge but still keep it closer to room temp -- so that 's more about storage than turning hard butter into spreadable butter on the spot . A storage option that allows you to keep your butter fresh for a pretty long period , but still leave it out on the counter so it 's soft , is a butter bell . You can look them up online -- many shops have them . It 's basically an inverted cup that sits inside a larger one with a little water at the bottom . The butter is packed into the inverted cup and stays put when you place the cup so the edges are under the water in the other cup . The water keeps air out so the butter stays fresh even at room temperature . You could do the same thing by mashing a bunch of butter into a teacup , then setting it upside down in a saucer full of water . If it 's too hot in your house , though , the butter will slip out of the inverted cup , so I mostly only use our butter bell in the winter . One thing to note about butter itself : Some butters are more spreadable at cooler temperatures . The Irish and French butters we can get here are much closer to spreadable at refrigerator temperatures than the regular US supermarket brands . I 'm not sure what the difference is , though .
A. Use simple sentences so Google can translate them well . Yes . Mix sugar and butter . No . Mix the sugar and the butter together until completely incorporated . B. Use grams for all weights . Spell out " grams " . Yes . 100 grams sugar . 200 grams milk . No. 100 g sugar . 200 g milk . C. Avoid imperial measures like cups and tablespoons . No . About 10 tablespoons of sugar and a cup of milk . Yes . 191 grams sugar . 245 grams milk . D. Google will have problems translating ingredient names . I do n't think there 's much you can do to help with this . Link to a picture of the ingredient ( or to an ingredient 's Wikipedia page ) instead .
Oil is hydrogenated by bubbling hydrogen through it at high temperature ( on the order of 400 to 500 degrees F ) , in the presence of a catalyst such as nickel . Air is 0.00005 % hydrogen , you are probably not using temperatures high enough , nor doing it for a significantly long period of time , nor having an appropriate catalyst present . The amount of hydrogenation introduced via this recipe is somewhere between none and vanishingly small . However , coconut oil itself is about 92 % saturated fat -- which means the fats are naturally saturated with hydrogen . While a natural saturated fat , not a manufactured one , coconut oil is saturated . If your recipe is delicious and you enjoy it , eat up in moderation like anything else ( chocolate excepted ) . :-)
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
Gruyere is DELICIOUS . It melts without getting too gooey or soupy , and it is the traditional cheese component of a <URL> ( if you 're into that ham thing ... ) . You could actually probably use any of the cheeses in that " variations " list , but I love Gruyere so that 's my recommendation . It 's widely available but tends to be kind of pricey here in the US . Brie is also a good choice ; since it is soft to begin with , it melts nicely . ( Just make sure to cut off the rind before putting in the sandwich - that would be a weird texture combo . ) It 's great in grilled or toasted cheese sandwiches because of the richness and slightly buttery flavor . As a local reference , check out <URL> for some tasty ideas ; they do classic grilled cheeses with cheddar , American , gruyere or mozzarella , but they make others that have additions of other non-cheese components .
I went into some detail with this in my answer to <URL> To summarize my points there and add some more ( simplified ) detail on the chemistry : Gluten is responsible for <URL> of dough , which is perceived as chewiness . The difference between bread , quickbread ( muffins/scones ) , and cake is largely due to the difference in gluten formation , with cake having the lowest amount and bread having the highest . It does not directly cause rising - the leavening agent ( yeast , baking powder , etc. ) is responsible for that . What it does do is form a protein network by <URL> , which not only results in the elasticity above but also traps gas and prevents it from escaping during the baking process . The " rising " in baked goods is essentially just stretching of the gluten network . This is why <URL> such as xanthan and guar gum can mimic some of the effects in gluten-free recipes ; although the mechanism is completely different - in essence , they 're creating a very thin gel . Gluten is also exceptionally good at both absorbing and retaining moisture ; it can absorb up to 150 % ( 1.5 times its own weight ) in water . One thing you 'll notice about typical wheat products vs. their gluten-free equivalents is that latter do n't last too long and have to be frozen or consumed quickly . Part of this is due to preservatives in commercial baked goods , but much of it is also simply due to the gluten retarding moisture loss . You can think of it as a kind of natural preservative . It 's activated by water and heat and is ( relatively ) slow-acting , which gives it a high tolerance with respect to time and temperature . This is why many people will tell you that bread is " forgiving " while cake and other low-gluten/gluten-free products are not . When baking without gluten , you will have to be very precise about all of your measurements . Its coagulation action is actually very similar to that of egg whites , and pure gluten ( AKA vital wheat gluten ) is sometimes actually used as a replacement for egg whites . A meringue is just heavily aerated egg whites and specifically protein ; gluten is basically doing the same thing inside of whatever you 're baking . Finally , it provides nutritive protein when eaten . Wheat gluten is about 75 % protein and all-purpose flour is about 10 % gluten . That means 7.5 % of the flour you consume is actually protein . Of course that 's nowhere near what you get from meat , but it 's still a significant contribution to one 's diet . In short : Gluten does a lot of things . Keep in mind when doing gluten-free baking that a lot of the substitutes only replicate one or two of the effects .
According to Cook 's Illustrated 's article <URL> ( possible paywall ) : Briefly soaking meat in a solution of baking soda and water raises the pH on the meat 's surface , making it more difficult for the proteins to bond excessively , which keeps the meat tender and moist when it 's cooked . This is almost certainly the effect of the baking powder : to help create a more tender product . This is probably especially necessary given the lack of bread products ( which provides starch that physically interferes with protein linking , and helps retain moisture in the , thus producing a more tender meatball ) . The tartaric acid is probably there because recipe authors are used to pairing it with baking soda which is necessary when it is used to create leavening in baked goods . In the meatballs , it will simply tend to help make them more acidic , although it will also neutralize some of the baking soda . I have surveyed several recipes on the web which include baking soda in meatball recipes ; they variously claim that it helps make the meatballs lighter or more tender .
end question
start question
How long can I hold brown rice between boiling and steaming ?
You can wait as long as you need to between pre-cook ( that 's the simmering ) and finish ( the steaming ) , it 's how things work in restaurants . The steaming time will only go up if you let the temperature drop appreciably . Even so , you should n't need more than an extra minute or so . Steaming is pretty benign to rice . As far as the safety concerns ... if you keep the temperature above 135 F , you are out of the danger zone , and you can hold there forever . The danger zone is 41 to 135 F , but the goal in cooling foods is to get it from hot to cool in 6 hours ... below 70 in two , and then 4 hours to make it below 41 ( yes , I 'm ServSafe certified ) . So your hypothetical 30-45 minutes should n't cause you a problem . But watch it if you start going long .
In Germany we have an old ( joking ) saying that roughly translates to " head off , tail off - bunny " , so your question is legitimate . But first thing 's first : There is no health risk involved if you ate the latest shipment of " meowling rabbit " . ( To cat lovers everywhere : This is no endorsement , I have a much loved and pampered cat , too ! ) The most obvious differences are head ( look at the teeth ! ) , tail ( short vs. long ) , and feet ( cat claws are quite distinctive ) . But I suspect these would be removed prior to sale , so we 'd have to dig a bit deeper into anatomy : Shoulder blades : Cats ' shoulder blades are rounded on top , especially in the front , making the shoulder blade almost semicircular with the ridge making for two differently shaped parts , rabbits ' shoulder blades are triangular with the ridge somewhat parallel to the front side . Femur ( thigh bone ) : A cat 's femora are straight , whereas a rabbit 's is more or less bent , especially pronounced in older animals . Same applies to a lesser extent to radius and ulna ( forearm ) , but they might have been removed . Ribs : Cats ' ribs are " rounder " than rabbits ' ribs according to <URL> . I ca n't say by how much , but <URL> 's comment below suggests the difference is obvious enough to play a significant role in the novel/movie <URL> . Pelvis : The same source as above states that the <URL> ( = the loop-like opening near/below the hip joint ) is oval in rabbits and round in cats . I could n't find a good picture to show this , though . Here 's a rabbit : Source : <URL> And a cat :
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
Full-size octopus are tough and rubbery when cooked , so the purpose of pre-cooking is to tenderize . According to <URL> , this can be done by hanging the octopus out to dry and then beating the crap out of it , but that sounds like more trouble than simply poaching . If your octopus is already cleaned ( i.e. ink sac , stomach , and beak removed ) then all you need to do is pop it into a covered pot on high heat - after a few minutes , it will give up a lot of its liquid . Turn the heat down to low , keep covered , and let it braise for at least an hour ( or more - a restaurant I used to work in that served octopus cooked it sous vide for a good 10 hours ) . If the pot starts to run dry , add a bit of water . You can also add flavoring agents like garlic , wine , herbs , etc. to the braise if you like or just let the octopus hang out in its own juices . After braising , you could either break down your octopus right away or bring it whole to the BBQ ( somewhat diminished in size , but still impressive ! ) and cut it up there . You will want to separate the tentacles from the body and cut the head sac into strips either way . If you leave it whole , it will cook unevenly because of the varying thickness of the flesh . Cook over the hottest part of the grill to finish , just to bring the flesh up to temperature and add a little char . Skewering the tentacles with a little olive oil and salt will work just fine , but the flavor is fairly mild if you did n't add anything to the braise so a sauce or glaze is a fine idea . That same restaurant got rave reviews with a simple sauce of olive oil , garlic , paprika , and a touch of sherry vinegar .
The method I used in the past ( which might not be the best way ) is to lightly fry the food initially , drain it of all oils , and put it in the refridgerator until it is almost time to serve the large amount of food . Then you can finish deep frying the batches . The initial frying will dramatically reduce the time it takes to refry each batch . I found this was the best solution for myself as I was able to serve hot and ( almost ) fresh out of the deep fryer food to a large group of people at lot faster . I think the result is way better than if you had to store the fully deep fried food for 2 hours and had to reheat it up somehow .
It depends on a lot of factors : what you 're describing is n't much different from making jam , and homemade jam is good for about a month , once you open it . Assuming you got the temp high enough to kill all the bacteria , the time will depend entirely on PH and water content . The more acidic , and the less watery the better . Generally things like this freeze well though , so , when in doubt , throw it in the freezer .
Since it is a custard , you should probably refrigerate it as soon as it is cool . A very sugary or acidic custard may be able to resist bacteria for a couple days ( see Bismark donuts ) , but unless the recipe was specifically developed to be stable at room temperature , then there is some risk of it going bad . If you have a fridge , there 's no reason not to use it . It may make the dough a little soggy , so you will want to find a way to store it to reduce condensation . Better yet , make just as much as you are going to eat/serve at one time , and do n't worry about this problem . <URL> <URL>
General comments on the shelf - , fridge - , and freezer-life of foods The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use . It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation ( no longer tasty ) or food safety ( risk of food poisoning ) . [ <URL> ] As far as food safety goes , food stored frozen at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or below is remains safe forever ; only quality degrades over time . [ <URL> ] . Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality . If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18 ° C ( three-star setting ) , these times may not apply . Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers ( -6 ° C ) is much reduced . The times all assume proper storage . Freezers 0 ° F or below , refrigerators 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . [ <URL> ] Cans should be stored in a cool , dry place , below 85 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The tables given here assume proper storage . Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41 -- 135 ° F ( 5 -- 57 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The Tables Regardless of the table below , if a food shows signs of spoilage ( including mold , with some exceptions described below ) , its past its shelf-life . Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety . Uncooked Proteins Cooked proteins Dairy Sauces For home-made mayo , there do n't seem to be official shelf-life estimates . Seasoned Advice has a question on this , <URL> . Vegetables Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched , then frozen . Generally , this is required , otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each vegetable . Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . Fruits Many fruits must be at least partially cooked ( blanched ) before freezing in order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in storage . Some are best frozen packed in acid ( lemon juice or citric acid ) and/or syrup . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each fruit . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . * : bananas stored in the fridge will blacken . This is not a sign of spoilage , and they can be eaten safely . Cooked dishes Generally 3 -- 4 days in the fridge . This includes pizza , soups , stews , casseroles , pies , and quiche [ KC ] . Some salads get a fifth day [ CFG ] . Freezer time is generally under three months . Infused oils Putting any plant matter in oil ( such as garlic , chillies or herbs ) creates the danger for botulism , a rare but fatal disease . Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable . They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days , discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles . Or buy commercially produced infused oils , they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores . Shelf-stable until opened Pantry ( not refrigerated even after opening ) General tips for storing foods How do I freeze fruits and vegetables ? Fruit . Ripe ( but not overripe ) fruit should be used . Wash them , and sort according to size . Working in small batches , remove pits , seeds , and blemishes . For fruits that turn brown , apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid . Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup . Small , whole fruits ( e.g. , berries ) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen , then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container . Vegetables . Most vegetables need blanching . To blanch , immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water ( steam ) . After blanching , transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched . Drain and dry . Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed , or by allowing to freeze on a tray , then putting in a bag or other container . General guideline is 8 -- 12 months for best quality . The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University 's <URL> . The five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables . Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide does n't answer your question . What about mold ? Some foods are expected to have mold in them ( e.g. , P. roqueforti in Roquefort cheese ) . Unexpected mold , however , is something to be concerned about . Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods , and even those high enough in salt or sugar to deter bacteria . Some molds produce mycotoxins . Mold growth can be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months ( use a mixture of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water , then rinse with plain water , then dry ) , by keeping dishcloths , sponges , mops , etc. clean and fresh-smelling ; and keeping indoor humidity levels under 40 % . In general , the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the actual mold growth . For most foods , any visible unexpected mold grow
Use the pasta cooking techniques in this answer : <URL> Bring just enough water to cover the pasta to a boil , put the lid on and let it sit . Use less water , less energy , and it ca n't boil over if it 's not boiling .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
The USDA recommends storing hard boiled eggs , whether peeled or not , for 1 week . I personally have kept &amp; eaten them after 2-3 weeks . I have also cracked one open that was no longer edible &amp; believe me - You will know when that happens ! The egg will will smell rotten &amp; you will have no question as to whether or not to eat it ! Some additional Info on storing eggs : Eggs should be stored in a refrigerator at about 40 degrees F , mainly to reduce the chances that any bacteria on the shell will multiply and cause a risk of illness . Buy refrigerated eggs and store them in the refrigerator as soon as your get home . However , even under refrigeration , eggs slowly lose carbon dioxide , which enlarges the size of the air cell and causes the yolk to flatten and the white to spread . Fresh Egg - Refrigerated raw shell eggs will keep without significant quality loss for about 4 - 5 weeks beyond the " sell by " date or about 3 weeks after you bring them home . Fresh egg whites - 2 to 4 days Fresh egg yolks ( unbroken and covered with water ) - 2 to 4 days Deviled eggs - 2 to 3 days Leftover egg dishes - 3 to 4 days
For cooking in with the pasta , consider red or yellow bell peppers , carrots , cauliflower or other vegetables that hold their color well when heated . Also , you can help this problem a lot with good , flavorful , beautiful garnishes . Even a simple shower of minced parsley goes a long way . Lemon or orange zest is nice too . Check out this <URL> from my blog , you 'll see how the quick , fresh garnish of cherry tomatoes and parsley turns a brown pasta bright ( and maybe learn a new way to cook pasta too ) .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
Food tends to become unpleasant before it becomes actually dangerous . I would try to eat things within 3 days of making them , though that 's just my personal guideline and is n't based on any scientific data . If you are n't going to eat it that quickly , freezing it after it 's been cooked and thawing it the day you want to eat it is probably a better idea .
Yes , just put them in a freezer bag and squeeze out plenty of air from it before you tie it up . It does n't matter if they 're shelled/crushed etc. . You can keep them for as long as anything else - some say 6 months , some say a year , some say indefinitely .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
end question
start question
Why does a microwave rotate the food being cooked ? And is there ever a time when it should n't rotate ?
Microwave ovens have a turntable because the microwaves themselves form what are known as ' standing waves ' . This means there are essentially static columns of microwave energy inside the cabinet itself . You can see this for yourself - spread a tray or plate with grated cheese , take the turntable out ( or press that button ) , and zap it for a couple of minutes . You should see bands of melted cheese interleaved with unmelted cheese . Thus , the food is rotated to ensure even heating .
From what you 're describing , I think the cheese ( or cheese-like substance , in this case ) ' broke ' ... that is , the oil separated out of it . I 'd recommend : Do n't melt it at full power Stir it multiple times during melting Melt the cheese ( or " cheese-food " ) seperately , then add the tomatoes , so the tomatoes do n't get hot , causing uneven heating . I 'm not sure if there 's a good way to recover cheese once it 's broken . Some starch will help keep dairy from breaking in the first place , but I do n't think it 'd help you in this particular case .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
Its called chocolate <URL> . There are two types : Fat blooming - cause is not known for certain , but probably the type VI chocolate crystals are more thermodynamically favored , so spontaneous conversion ( and exit from the surface of the solid solution constituting the chocolate body ) may be possible . Sugar blooming - the sugar in the chocolate is dissolved by humidity , and the precipitates on the surface . Fortunately , there are no safety problems with bloomed chocolate , and it can be remelted with no inherent loss of quality . So bloomed chocolate is perfectly useful in recipes where it will be melted ; or it can be melted and <URL> if desired .
In today 's modern culture and cooking style , the difference is likely unobserved . I would consider a stew less constructed than a casserole , however . While the stew would start with generally uncooked ingredients ( perhaps except for browning the meat , and likely be mixed together while cooking to give a single-dish of meat , vegetables and sauce . A casserole might include some cooked ingredients , often be more properly layered and probably not mixed while cooking .
Most of the weight in fresh fruit is water , which has no calories . When you dry the fruit , the remainder is concentrated , so there are more calories in a given volume or weight . <URL> is a preservative with anti-microbial properties . The claim of 3.6 times the energy is specious .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
They can be as young as 8 weeks , and up to a year or more . The preferred cooking method changes with age . <URL> of the ages/weights/options .
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
The lack of vent holes would have been a problem . Vent holes allow steam to escape , reducing the amount of internal moisture . This moisture will both prevent the crust from cooking fully through , and will cause the crust to soften as after it comes out of the oven . That 's not to say that there was n't also some other problem , just this is one thing that you should correct .
who determines that an item should be classified as this You do . There is no official list of delicacies . No authority on deciding what food is tasty . If , to you , lavender chocolate is a delicacy , then you can say so . Others will say that it is n't , that it tastes like soap and , and they ca n't bring themselves to eat it . Saying " I like bacon " is just a personal statement about your preferences . Saying " Bacon is a delicacy " is a personal statement which carries a bit more information , namely that you find bacon tasty , but also consider it a luxury food item , as opposed to an everyday food ( although this second semantic distinction is somewhat lost nowadays ) . As tastes tend to be shared within a culture , you will probably find that the people around you tend to agree somewhat on what is a delicacy , although it 's not a complete overlap . This can appear as if there a universal agreement on what is a delicacy . And I do n't doubt that somebody , somewhere has compiled something they call a list of delicacies , the same way that a movie fan will compile a list of " really funny comedies " . Both have equally little validity - what is funny to that person will not always be funny to you , even though there will be a correlation if you grew up in the same culture .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
You have misread the Wikipedia quote . It says ( emphasis added ) : Kale freezes well and actually tastes sweeter and more flavourful after being exposed to a frost . While not terribly well written ( since there is the red herring that it freezes well ) , this does n't mean that the harvested plant was frozen , but rather that the live plant in the ground was exposed to frost . This causes it to begin converting starches to sugars in preparation for winter , giving it a sweeter taste . Per <URL> , for example : Frost enhances the flavor . Some of the tastiest kale is harvested under a foot of snow ! Never harvest kale until after a hard frost or two . A few freezing nights make all the difference in flavor as the kale plants need a hard frost to transform their starches into natural sugars .
Spaetzle is basically a noodle . Throw together egg , flour and salt ( maybe some water to thin it out ) and force it through a mold . Anything with holes can be used as a mold ( for instance , I 've used my old metal colander and that would work fine ) . Once the dough is formed into little pieces ( it does n't usually hold together for long threads ) , put it in boiling water to cook for a few minutes and dress it to eat however you desire . Note : some people say Spaetzle is a noodle , some say a dumpling , I have no preference , I just call it tasty !
Sure it 's safe . You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures , nothing 's going to survive that , so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety . I would n't just wipe it though , clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you 'd like .
Caramelization occurs at the melting point of sugar . When a sugar molecule hits the appropriate temperature , it melts . This is similar to ice turning to water above 32 F ( 0 C ) . It will take some time for all of a given amount of sugar to melt , but this is relatively insignificant compared to ice melting due primarily to the vast amount of heat involved to melt sugar . Once melted there is no need to maintain it at a specific temperature . However , time is a factor in achieving the desired temperature for your melted sugar . For sucrose : At 356 F ( 180 C ) you have light caramel - it 's a pale amber to golden brown in hue From 356 F to 370 F ( 180 C to 188 C ) you have medium caramel - this is a golden brown to chestnut brown hue . From 370 F to 400 F ( 188 C to 204 C ) you have dark caramel - this is very dark , bitter , and smells a little burned - this is used for coloring only At 410 F ( 210 C ) you have monkey 's blood - it tastes like burning and the sugar breaks down to carbon Another thing to be aware of is that caramelization is often mistakenly attributed to the browning of meats , nuts , or bread crust . This is actually an entirely different process called the <URL> which requires specific enzymes to be present , and occurs at different temperatures than caramelization .
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
end question
start question
What is the difference between milk ( simple ) and milk drink ?
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
Pasteurized milk is the standard way milk is sold in industrialized countries . How it 's packaged can depend on the country but it 's perfectly safe to drink provided it 's consumed by the " use by " date . <URL> : Pasteurization ( American English ) or pasteurisation ( British English ) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century . In 1864 Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine just enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage prevented these beverages from turning sour . This was achieved by eliminating pathogenic microbes and lowering microbial numbers to prolong the quality of the beverage . Today the process of pasteurization is used widely in the dairy and food industries for microbial control and preservation of the food we consume . Pasteurization is the reason for milk 's extended shelf life . High-temperature , short-time ( HTST ) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks , whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer , sometimes two to three months . When ultra-heat treatment ( UHT ) is combined with sterile handling and container technology ( such as aseptic packaging ) , it can even be stored unrefrigerated for up to 9 months . This means that most of the microbes in the milk are killed and the milk is perfectly safe to drink right out of the carton . In fact , there are many jokes in the US about chastising teenage boys and young men about drinking directly from the carton/jug of milk . Milk in the US is regularly consumed direct from the gallon jug , see the note under Vitamin D that says " Pasteurized &amp; Homogenized " : Milk in Europe is often in <URL> cartons which do n't have to be stored in the fridge until opened and generally have a longer shelf life due to the UHT handling ( see definition above ) :
Shao hsing is just another romanization of mandarin Chinese ( Wade Giles ) for Shao xing : <URL>
When making lactose free milk , the lactose is n't actually removed . Instead , lactase is added to the milk . This breaks down the lactose into its component sugars , glucose and galactose . Lactose is one of the least sweet sugars , relative to sucrose ( table sugar ) . Both glucose and galactose are significantly sweeter than the original lactose , hence why lactose free milk tastes much sweeter . <URL> <URL>
according to the Ball canning book ( paraphrasing ) ... JAM is made by cooking crushed or chopped fruits with sugar , and is made of one fruit or a combination of fruits , is spreadable , and is firm but will not hold the shape of the jar . JELLY is made from juice strained from fruit , usually prepared in a way to keep it crystal clear , and is gelatinized enough to hold is shape when removed from the jar , yet is still spreadable . PRESERVES are fruit preserved with sugar so it retains its shape , is transparent , shiny , tender and plump . the syrup generally has the consistency of honey , and a true preserve will not hold its shape when spooned from the jar . to add to the confusion , i 'll also add their descriptions of ... CONSERVES , which are jam-like and made of a combination of one or more fruits , nuts and raisins , cooked until it rounds up on the spoon . MARMALADES are a soft jelly containing pieces of fruit and peel evenly suspended in a transparent jelly . similar in structure to jam .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
It 's a regional preference on what they 're called . When you 're buying seeds , they 're also called " bunching onions " , and I grew up calling them " scallions " , although I think that scallion specifically do n't have a bulb yet formed , while green/spring onions might . update : A little research suggests that " spring onion " is the preferred term in the UK , AU and Canada , " green onion " in the US south , and " scallion " in the US northeast , however I 'm not sure what the exact boundries are as in the US mid-atlantic , I 'll see both " green onions " and " scallions " for sale , with " green onions " being larger ( scallions with no bulb , maybe 12 " / 30cm long , while green onions might have a 2 " / 5cm bulb , and have over 24 " / 60cm of green top ) . It 's possible that " green onion " might be a polysemous term that varies by region .
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
<URL> makes quick cook steel cut oats . According to them , they 're just cut smaller . Quick Cooking Steel Cut Oats are simply whole oat groats that have been cut into neat little pieces on a specialized rotary granulator mill . We use high protein , whole grain oats that have been lightly toasted to create our hearty steel cut oats . Also known as Irish oats or pinhead oats , steel cut oats create a chewy , full-bodied hot cereal . Our Quick Cooking Steel Cut Oats are cut a little smaller than our Regular Steel Cut Oats , making them ready in a scant 5 to 7 minutes .
Butter gives more flavor , but oil provides longevity . Butter is about 20 % water . That water will evaporate during baking and continue to do so even after they are out of the oven causing your cakes to stale quicker . Also the the fat in butter remains solid at room temperature . Once your cake has cooled the fat , now dispersed in your cake solidifies once again and makes for a bit firmer of a crumb . Vegetable oil , however , is pure fat containing no water and remains liquid at room temperature . The moisture provided by oil will not evaporate during cooking and even after the product is cooled to room temp , the liquid fat remain and provide a moist crumb . Since there is no water to evaporate this product will last much longer on the shelf than one made with butter .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
end question
start question
How do I control the temperature of water for an extended period of time ?
You can try to set up my at-home on-the-cheap monkey-at-the-controls sous-vide machine . I take a nearly full 22 quart stock pot with an analog instant read thermometer to monitor the temperature and watch the temperature and adjust the dial accordingly . With this only needing 30 minutes you probably just want to get the water to exactly 72 degrees C and then immerse the potatoes without adding any heat . The amount of energy in 20 quarts of water is phenomenal and you wo n't lose a lot of heat to the air . Alternatively you could get 72 degree water and a beer cooler and try that way for the extra insulation .
In casseroles , pot pies and the like , condensed soup is usually added without additional water . It serves as a thickening agent and will pick up sufficient water from whatever vegetables etc. you also have in the recipe . That 's not to say you never add water along w the soup , it 's just that the desired end result is more often some sort of solid casserole-like dish than merely a souped up soup . If you 've uncooked , dry , noodles in there too , you will have to add some liquid beyond the condensed soup , so as to allow them to hydrate properly .
Tomatoes are mostly water anyway . They 're not going to get above boiling point whether or not you add water ( or at least not by more than a very few degrees even with salt added - less than the effect of altitude ) . On the other hand the browned bits from the bottom of the pan ( often called fond in the US though I 've never heard this in the UK and the usage in France is a bit different ) do give a nice flavour to the sauce so long as they do n't catch . If you do add water , you 'll need to simmer it down anyway , making that the stirring step still happens , just later . But adding some water fairly early can give you some flexibility . A good time to do this is when it 's starting to meet constant stirring but you need to get on with the rest of the meal . A low heat and a heavy pan help too .
The most important thing is to check everything and then check it again . Test your recipes and figure out what can be done in advance without reducing the quality . You should have checklists of everything that needs to come with you ( food , cooking utensils , serving utensils , eating utensils , decoration , cleanup gear , etc. ) You must pre-scout the location and make sure you have thought through how your logistics are going to work - do you have the refrigerator and burner space you need , for example ? Think through how everything will be transported as well . Will you be able to keep everything at safe temperatures ? Make sure all containers are thoroughly sealed , and if there is any risk of spills , add a layer of masking tape . Bring extras of everything . Inevitably , something is going to spill or there will be more guests than anticipated . Then check everything again . Also , keep good records of what you made and what got eaten so you 'll be ready to do it next time .
<URL> variants may be boiled that long or more -- they do contain black tea , but also spices ( where the boiling is needed , to extract the flavor from whole spices ) . The tea decoction this produces does contain all of the bitter compounds , sure -- but it is mixed with spices , diluted generously with milk and sugar , and becomes a palatable drink that is nevertheless very different from the coolly and weakly brewed variety you seem to be familiar with . In fact , it is even possible that the tea was plain black tea , brewed very strongly . Served with plenty of milk and sugar to balance the bitterness , milk tea is a cultural variation . Think of it kinda like coffee , if you want -- it is bitter , but it is expected to be -- and the tea can be doctored to make it work for the drinker . Tea can be served in lots of different variations , and none are more correct than others -- just like some teas are brewed very light and almost flavorless ( japanese green , and 15 seconds per brew ) , and others are brewed to death and sweetened to balance ( southern style sweet tea ) , some are served with milk , sugar , or lemon , and still more are served with salt or butter ( tibetan ) . Boiled milk tea or chai are brewed to death , to extract all the flavor , and served sweet and milky to balance the strength and bitterness -- and a weakly brewed tea would be tasteless and vanish in the expected fixings .
Try freezing the oreos first and then cut with a sharp knife . Let the oreos warm to room temperature again . They will not lose any texture or crispiness . Update : In the name of science , I froze some oreos and tested the outcome . Freezing the oreos made the cutting much more ... achievable . A room temperature oreo just wants to crumble in too many places , but a frozen one holds together better .
It does n't sound like you 're doing anything wrong . I 've found risotto to be one of those recipes that can vary up to 50 % ( usually less ) from what the author calls for and still turn out great . I 've even used recipes that call for " 2-4 " cups of broth . You may be overcooking it though , <URL> . It 's not uncommon for people to overcook this until you have a mushy risotto .
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
One method I found over time : Chop it into tiny pieces and stir fry it with bacon and onions ( also chopped up ) . Once that 's soft , leave it to cool , then mix it in meatballs in a 50:50 ratio . If some eggs and breadcrumbs are added a fine meatball is made that tastes a bit sweeter and veggy and is healthier . :)
There is no exact conversion because there are so many different varieties of chickpeas or any bean types for that matter Their water absorption rate and amount is effected by many things including how they have been stored , have they been heat treated on import , and what time of year they where grown ! My rough rule of thumb for beans in general is 2.5 ± .5 times the volume and 2 ± .5 the weight after an overnight soak With our local chickpeas it 's 2.2 times the weight after 10 hours at 20 ° C ( on the bench ) 200g should be around 440g of soaked chickpeas . 1 cup of chickpeas is around 240g , so just shy of two cups of soaked chickpeas should do it
Gelatin is quite tolerant , but with a few restrictions : Never boil gelatine , because it looses it 's binding/gelling properties . Liquifying gelatine requires temperatures that feel " warm " to the touch , but not all recipes handle warm additions well - e.g. whipped cream . Cooling liquid gelatine for heat sensitive recipes should happen fairly quick , and so should incorporating the coolish gelatine to the other ingredients : Stir well or you end up with " gummy bear " - like lumps . So without knowing the details of your recipe I suggest using fairly warm water in the range of " warm bath water " or " comfortable for washing hands " but not at all " hot " . ( Note that I do n't give a precise temperature range on purpose . ) Hot tap water should suffice , but heating it on the stove is fine , too . Just use gentle heat and do n't let the gelatine rest on the bottom of the pot to avoid overheating . Depending on your next steps , you might want to stir the liquid gelatine until it 's barely warm to the touch or add a few spoonfulls of whatever cool mixture you are planning to bind , stir , then add to the rest . For warm other ingredients , extra cooling is not required , just mix and let set .
TFD 's answer is true : the most likely change is the reduction in some astringent flavors . I would just add that people have been brewing black tea for iced tea for many years at or near room temperature ( e.g. , the traditional " sun tea " method ) , or even in the refrigerator ( " cold-brewed " tea ) . The flavor notes which come out are different , but a lot of people still find the tea produced to be acceptable or even preferable to " hot-brewed " tea . Granted , these processes are used mostly for tea meant to be consumed at cooler temperatures . But my point is that those who insist that black tea must be brewed as close to 100C as possible are just brewing one possible " version " of tea from those leaves . In my own experiments , I 've found that certain black teas taste good when brewed at lower temperatures for a long time , though others end up " unbalanced " in some way . ( Sometimes , they simply taste " weaker " for some reason , even when still brewed longer to take into account the lower temperature . Sometimes this can be fixed by adding more tea leaves per cup ; other times this still creates an imbalance . ) I could cite a number of studies which show the various amounts of certain chemical components in tea and how fast they dissolve at various temperatures . But those really wo n't take into account the balance of individual flavor components in a particular black tea . In this case , I think it 's really a matter of personal judgment to see whether your particular tea tastes fine to you brewed at a lower temperature .
They would totally end up tasting like oniony beef ! In fact your whole kitchen does - that 's part of the magic of making jerky . I ca n't think of a way to prevent this as the whole idea of dehydrating is to pull water out of the food and blow it away into the air . If the flavors are compatible ( or milder , like fruit ) I have done different things together at once . If they do n't take the same amount of time , I 'll just take the done items off earlier when I check it .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
It means , basically , to stir in some warm liquid to prevent it from later curdling . Once the egg is warmed and mixed with some of your sauce , it can safely be incorporated into the rest of the high-temperature sauce without ( as much ) fear that you 're going to end up with scrambled eggs floating around in your hollandaise . Generally , you crack the egg in a bowl , and spoon in a little sauce , mix it , spoon in a little more , mix it , and then you should be good to go . It goes without saying that if the sauce you spoon in curdles the egg , discard , and start again .
The water is used to create steam used to promote crust on the surface of the bread . The only reason you would need to increase the water for steam would be if you started using a larger oven .
If you 're simmering it in a decent amount of liquid for a while , like curry , the slimy stuff ( mucilage ) will all go out into the curry and end up just thickening it . The okra itself wo n't be slimy . This is one of the traditional ways to thicken gumbo ! Even just stewed okra , with a decent amount of tomatoey goop , usually is n't very slimy .
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
end question
start question
How to write the so called wooden tomato / wooden potato in Chinese ( and where to find it ) ?
By your description I would say it 's taro or 芋头 ( yu tao ) in chinese <URL> It can be bought in most chinese supermarkets For more info <URL>
Bitterness can come from underripe fruit ( although a lot of times they 'll just be sour or less flavorful ) , lack of juice is usually something that has been stored too long and dried out . A ripe mandarin or clementine should be firm but not hard with a good , bright citrusy fragrance . Rubbing your finger on the skin should impart some citrus oil ( unless it 's waxed of coated ... ) I think usually the smell is the best guideline for flavor , although I have still sometimes had a fruit that smells great and tastes pretty bland . But I think usually if they are really fragrant that 's a good sign . The skin should be somewhat loose-feeling . If the skin is tight on the fruit , it is either not ripe or it is drying out ( or it 's not a mandarin or clementine ) . Do n't squeeze the fruit and bruise it , but when you pick it up , there should be a bit of give in the skin . Mandarins and clementines have very thin skins , but these still have the sort of spongy texture of other citrus . Because they are thin , they dry out quickly . It 's hard to describe what drying citrus skin feels like - progressively rougher and harder than fresh , eventually turning into a crisp and brittle almost stony layer . I 'm sure you would notice far before it gets to that stage , but it 's not going to happen overnight . ( But the fruit should n't be squishy or have soft spots , that is generally spoilage or damage . ) It should not feel dry and hard . A juicy citrus will feel heavy for its size , although for really small ones that 's kind of hard to judge . One more thing to note , though , is that most of the time , the whole batch of whatever type of fruit at the grocery store or at a particular market stall at any given time will very likely come from the same source . While there might be some better and some worse ones , overall they 'll probably be pretty similar , unless you can clearly see that some are older or from a different source . If you 're not sure about a batch , just buy a couple and then get more after you see that they 're good . ( And if you find some great ones , buy a lot and freeze some for juice for later . )
Vermouth is a fortified white wine that has been infused with herbs , spices and fruits . You should expect it to add those flavors to your dish . Have you tasted the vermouth on its own ? Are you sure you ca n't identify it ? If you still think you ca n't , I 'd suggest tasting your soup as you add each ingredient and concentrate on what flavors each ingredient adds . For what it 's worth , Cooks Illustrated has reviewed Martini &amp; Rossi Extra Dry and classified it as " not recommended " due to tasting medicinal and harsh . Gallo Extra Dry California and Noilly Prat Original French were both recommended , in that order . They used a pan sauce as well as straight tasting for their reviews . Perhaps you could try that yourself and see what flavors vermouth gives to a pan sauce , as compared to a white wine . You might find out that you 're overpowering or masking a flavor in your vermouth with some of your various herbs &amp; spices .
I do not think your problem is an emulsifier that you are missing , I think it 's just basic temperature and technique ' issues ' . Firstly , you will get a better result if you use a liquid chocolate syrup . It 's like adding granulated sugar to an iced coffee - it will sweeten the cold liquid a bit , but most of the grains will just get wet and clump together at the bottom and not mix together . That 's why using a simple syrup is a better idea , because the solid elements ( sugar ) have already been incorporated into a liquid form so the cold temperature wo n't be a detriment to mixing . However , if you really want to keep using ( or not waste ) your existing cocoa , you have a few options . You can make a slurry of the cocoa powder . Get a container that can be sealed well and add maybe a teaspoon of the cocoa mix to 3 or 4 tablespoons of milk and shake it vigorously . Once it is well mixed , you can add more cocoa , and more milk as needed to keep it totally liquid . After it is fully incorporated , stir it into the rest of your milk and it should mix completely . This other method may not work for cold milk , but it is how I make smooth hot cocoa without having to make a slurry . I take a good quality cocoa and put it in a small bowl and then add granulated sugar - the ratio is n't vital ( and I like a sweet , very chocolatey cocoa ) , but it does have to be enough sugar to fully incorporate with the smooth , powdery cocoa . Basically I am looking to use the grains of sugar to break up the potential clumps of cocoa by having the mixture as thoroughly incorporated as possible , and then stirring very thoroughly as well . I prefer glass mugs so that I can see that I 've gotten all that 's fallen to the bottom . I hope this helps .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
You 'll want to look for one of two products either <URL> or <URL> . Lait fermenté is a cultured buttermilk . This is homogenized and pasteurized milk which has been cultured with lactic acid bacteria . This is the de facto standard buttermilk in modern times . If you go to an American grocery store and buy buttermilk you are buying cultured buttermilk . Lait ribot is traditional buttermilk . It is the fermented liquid leftover from churning butter . This is not commonly found in the US and other western countries . See also : <URL>
Salting the water in which you cook starches ( pasta , rice , potato ) is an effective way of enhancing the flavour of the finished product - boiling starches absorb salt well ( which is why adding chunks of potato to an overall salty stew will lessen the apparent saltiness of the dish . But salt does other things . When I am making roasted potatoes , I parboil them for 5 minutes before drying and roasting them in oil . if you divide them into two batches and boil one half in unsalted water and the other half in well salted water ( 1tbsp/2 quarts water ) , the salted potatoes will brown and crisp much better than the unsalted ones . I 'm not sure why this is , but I would encourage you to try it because it 's amazing to see .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
No , for most marinades , there should be no reason you can not make them in advance and refrigerate . It may even allow some improvements as flavors from any herbs or spices infuse into the liquid . You just want to practice good food safety , which means putting it in the refrigerator as soon as it is made .
Pretty much everything I 've read ( <URL> ) says not to use wood , because the oils from the peppers will penetrate the board and transfer , and hold there indefinitely , even after thorough washings . <URL> is full of people with personal experience transferring the heat to later meals . That said , as with Jefromi , I 've cut hot peppers on wood before and not noticed any transfer . Specifically , home grown habaneros and jalapenos on maple boards . Maybe I 'm just acclimated to the heat and do n't notice , but those recommendations are not in line with my personal experience . I do thoroughly scrub my boards after use , but that probably is n't washing away any residual oils . If you really want to be safe , for example if someone in your house is heat sensitive or you have small children helping in the kitchen , you can dedicate a board to cutting peppers , or just cut peppers on a small plastic board and wash thoroughly after each use .
My secret weapon is onion . Caramelize the onions first . This creates a natural sweetness . Always use ripe tomatoes ; if you can not then use canned . The canned are made from ripe tomatoes and tend to be a very good substitute . Also , the celery and carrot suggestions are very much a good addition - you are making a classic tomato sauce when you include the celery and carrots , 1 part each celery and carrot to 2 parts onion . Add the onions first to get the caramelization . I do n't get too fancy with herbs , usually one good fresh herb does it for me , basil or sage are two favorites of mine . There is a suggestion to add cream , why not use the parmesan end you may have in your fridge , it is dairy and allowed to slowly simmer in the sauce will lend a very nice flavor note . Acidic sauces are usually reserved for nights when I make a puttanesca sauce - it goes with the capers and calamata olives I add to it . Do n't forget to season with salt and pepper .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
This is not true anymore , and modern recipes omit that part . Back then , when silverware was made either from silver or pre-stainless-steel-alloys the acid in sourdough ( and other foods * ) would interact with the metal and corrode/color the metal and/or spoil the food . So put your sourdough in your ( stainless steel ) mixing bowl and knead it in your kitchen machine as you like . * examples ( thanks to @Stephie ) : eggs ( there were special egg-spoons made from horn or tortoise shell and later bakelite or plastic to prevent the sulphur in the eggs interacting with the metal ) , marmelade/jam ( special spoons , jam would get runny if it got in contact with the wrong spoon ) , potatoes ( there is a rule to not cut them with a knife ) .
I always let pizza dough rounds rise on a flat surface . A few options : Use plastic wrap or a large bowl covered by towel or plastic , as others have said . The dough can still stick to plastic wrap , but at least you 're not cleaning it off a towel . Invert a bowl over the dough that has a slightly larger diameter than the estimated final diameter of the dough . The dough will likely not dry out much , if at all . Make a proofing box with higher humidity . This is my preferred method . You just need a way to create a somewhat enclosed area of higher humidity . This can generally be accomplished with a cup filled with hot or boiling water initially . Some people use a microwave . ( Place dough in microwave along with cup of hot water . Shut door . Let proof . ) Others use a small oven . If you need more space , you can use an inverted large pan if you have one , or an inverted plastic bin . If you do n't have any of that and want to go really cheap , you can even make a larger box out of a cardboard box -- just tape up the bottom to " seal " very roughly , cut off the top flaps , and invert over your dough , along with the cup of hot water . It wo n't be a " tight seal , " but it will be enough to keep the dough surface moist for a while . ( For a very long proof , you can replace the water periodically as necessary . ) Professional bakers often have climate-controlled areas with higher humidity for these purposes . There are smaller proofing boxes manufactured for home use , though they tend to be quite pricey .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
I 'm not sure if it 's a typo but the recipe surprises me , traditionally ( as far as a 100ish year old dish can be " traditional " ) vichyssoise would have chicken stock or seasoned milk as the liquid base . For that quantity of potato and leek I would estimate 0.6 - > 0.75 L of liquid so it is possible it is a typo .
Strangely enough , I do live near Campinas ( where UNICAMP belongs ) , where water once " was " <URL> ! ( non-english site ) , what a coincidence ! I 'm noticing the local water smell is terrible in chlorine , I wonder they 're adding water in milk or cows are drinking thw water , very strange ... I will buy milk from differente towns and test this again .
This completely depends on all of the other factors involved in botulinum growth , not to mention the particular strain you 're concerned about ( there are several ) . Salt , acidity ( low pH ) , low moisture , and extreme temperature ( low or high ) will all slow botulinum growth significantly . There are proteolytic and non-proteolytic types of bacteria . The proteolytic C.botulinum bacteria will never grow in the refrigerator - they can not grow at temperatures below 12 ° C <URL> . The non-proteolytic strains can grow at temperatures as low as 3 ° C . That is very close to refrigerator temperature so clearly they will grow very slowly - again , the exact speed depends on other factors - but they will grow . According to <URL> , the proteolytic strains ( the ones that can not grow in the fridge ) are the ones that tend to produce gas and off-odours , so they 'll be more easily detectable . They also have far lower heat resistance , so they are easier to cook away . But of course , if they 've grown to a sufficient level , it 's too late to do that . As far as I know , there are n't specific guidelines for vacuum-packed foods , whether commercially packed or simply cooked sous-vide . I 'd ask you to consider that botulism is not the only type of foodborne illness that can grow in the refrigerator . There 's also <URL> , <URL> , and possibly some others I 'm forgetting about . Cooking ( especially sous-vide cooking ) does n't kill every last one of them , just enough to make the food safe . By the way , listeria and salmonella are both <URL> which means that they can grow with or without air . There 's also the small matter of your actual refrigerator temperature . Although the theoretical temperature ( 4 ° C ) is lower than that required for all but the hardiest of bacteria , once you move up even a single degree to 5 ° C there are many more kinds that can start to grow . How cold is your fridge , really ? I 've heard of some being as high as 10-12 ° C in parts ! If your fridge temperature is even slightly high , botulism will be the least of your worries . Honestly , given the incredibly tiny number of actual documented cases of botulism ( <URL> ) compared to the insanely high total number of food poisoning cases every year ( <URL> according to some sources ) , people seem to place far too much emphasis on that particular species . I realize that it 's one of the scariest on account of that whole " instant death " thing , but even if you could prove that your improperly-stored food is 100 % free of botulism toxin , you could still get seriously ill from eating it . You 're literally worrying about the least probable vector for food poisoning . Bottom line , I 'd strongly advise you to treat sous-vide food just like any other food in terms of food safety and freeze it if you plan to store it longer than 4-5 days . There are just too many variables at play to conclusively say otherwise .
There 's no reason to peel besides the aesthetics of it . There 's no major flavor or nutritional difference either way . If the ginger is going to be seen then peel it , if not do n't bother . The best way to peel ginger is to use the edge of a small spoon to rub it off , it works really well , takes seconds , and does n't waste as much as using a knife .
end question
