start question
Index mutual fund " minimum initial investment " inside a Roth IRA ?
The funds often have a lower minimum for IRAs , or a lower minimum if you commit to a certain monthly deposit , say $ 200 per month .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
My experience is in the UK , not Canada , but i imagine the situation is similar . It 's true that an index tracker will outperform the average managed fund . But it 's also true that there 's a lot more variation in performance in managed funds than in trackers ( naturally ) . That means that when people look at performance league tables , they see managed funds at the top , and they go for managed funds . That explains why index funds have n't taken over the market - people always think they can do better . The question is , of course , whether they can . Can you reliably pick a managed fund that will be in the top half of that league table five years down the line , rather than one which will have crashed into the below-the-index relegation zone ? You can find any number of pundits who will assure you that you can , and at least as many who will be equally certain that you ca n't . My two cents ( three cents Canadian ) is that you can , as long as you 're sensible and not greedy ; forget about any fund with ' growth ' , ' aggressive ' , or 'em erging markets ' in the title , and look for ones with a consistent track record over five years or more . It 's not a guarantee of future success , but i do think it 's a reasonable indication . I 'd be interested to see statistics about this , though . In particular , look for income funds - that 's where the money is invested in a diverse set of companies that pay good dividends ; the growth rate and volatility may or may not be better than an index tracker , but the dividends mean that the growth in value of the fund is less dependent on capital growth , shielding you from poor performance . For example , a good chunk of my savings are in the <URL> , which has beaten the FTSE all-share index by a modest amount over the last five years , and will probably beat it harder over the next five if they do n't include another crash ( a big if ! ) . On the subject of dividends , i do n't know how things work in Canada , but in the UK , an index tracker does n't pass on any of the dividends paid by the shares it notionally holds ; it just tracks the capital value , with the fund manager pocketing the payouts . I have a vague idea that an ETF does pass the dividends on to you , but i 'm not sure . As for websites , <URL> is good .
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
There 's nothing to rebalance , the index fund rebalances itself to continue matching the index . However , you need to understand that such an investment is not diversified and you only invest in a very specific market , and very specific stocks on that market . S&amp;P 500 is large ( 500 different companies , most of the time ) , but still not as broadly diversified as your retirement investment portfolio should be . You should talk to a financial adviser ( CFP for example ) , many companies provide access to these for 401k plan participants . But in any case , I 'd suggest considering " target date " funds - funds that are investing based on your expected retirement year , and become more conservative as you get closer to that year .
As you alluded to in your question , there is not one answer that will be true for all mutual funds . In fact , I would argue the question is not specific to mutual funds but can be applied to almost anyone who must make an investment decision : a mutual fund manager , hedge fund manager , or an individual investor . Even though money going into a company 401 ( k ) retirement savings plan is typically automatically allocated to different funds as we have specified , this is generally not the case for other investment accounts . For example , I also have a Roth IRA in which I have some money from each paycheck direct deposited and it 's up to me to decide whether to leave that money in cash or to invest it somewhere else . Every time you invest more money into a mutual fund , the fund manager has the same decision to make . There are two commonly used mutual fund figures that relate to your question : turnover rate , and cash reserves . Turnover rate measures the percent of a fund 's portfolio that changes every year . For example , a turnover rate of 100 % indicates that a fund replaces every asset it held at the beginning of the year with something else at the end of the year -- funds with turnover rates greater than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of less than one year , and funds with turnover rates less than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of more than one year . Cash reserves simply measure the amount of money funds choose to keep as cash instead of investing in other assets . Another important distinction to make is between actively managed funds and passively managed funds . Passively managed funds are often referred to as " index funds " and have as their goal only to match the returns of a given index or some other benchmark . Actively managed funds on the other hand try to beat the market by exploiting so-called market inefficiencies ; e.g. buying undervalued assets , selling overvalued assets , " timing " the market , etc. . To answer your question for a specific fund , I would encourage you to look at the fund 's prospectus . I take as one example of a passively managed fund the Vanguard 500 Index Fund ( VFINX ) , a mutual fund that was created to track the S&amp;P 500 . In <URL> , the fund states that , " to track its target index as closely as possible , the Fund attempts to remain fully invested in stocks " . Furthermore , the prospectus states that " the fund 's daily cash balance may be invested in one or more Vanguard CMT Funds , which are very low-cost money market funds . " Therefore , we would expect both this fund 's turnover rate and cash reserves to be extremely low . When we look at <URL> , we see this is true -- it is currently at a 4.8 % turnover rate and holds 0.0 % in short term reserves . Therefore , we can assume this fund is regularly purchasing shares ( similar to a dollar cost averaging strategy ) instead of holding on to cash and purchasing shares together at a specific time . For actively managed funds , the picture will tend to look a little different . For example , if we look at the <URL> , we can see it has a turnover rate of 42 % , and holds around .95 % in cash/short term reserves . In this case , we can safely guess that trading activity may not be as regular as a passively managed fund , as an active manager attempts to time the market . You may find mutual funds that have much higher cash reserves -- perhaps 10 % or even more . Granted , it is impossible to know the exact trading strategy of a mutual fund , and for good reason -- if we knew for example , that a fund purchases shares every day at 2:30 PM in order to realign with the S&amp;P 500 , then sellers of S&amp;P components could up the prices at that time to exploit the mutual fund 's trade strategy . Large traders are constantly trying to find ways to conceal their actual trading activity in order to avoid these exact problems . Finally , I feel obligated to note that it is important to keep in mind that trade frequency is linked to transactions costs -- in general , the more frequently an investment manager ( whether it be you or a mutual fund manager ) executes trades , the more that manager will lose in transactions costs .
There is no segregation of amounts that you have in Rollover ( Traditional ) IRAs when it comes to figuring out how much of your basis is being converted from your Traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . So , yes , you will lose the benefit of being able to make nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA each year and rolling them over into a Roth IRA without tax consequences . Since your 401k amount may be substantially more than the $ 5K basis you create each year , converting the 401k amount into a Traditional IRA will mean that most of the money converted to the Roth IRA is pre-tax money , and so you end up paying tax on most of the converted amount .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
A closed-end fund is a collective investment scheme that is closed to new investment once the fund starts operating . A typical open-ended fund will allow you to buy more shares of the fund anytime you want and the fund will create those new shares for you and invest your new money to continue growing assets under management . A closed-end fund only using the initial capital invested when the fund started operating and no new shares are typically created ( always exception in the financial community ) . Normally you buy and sell an open-end fund from the fund company directly . A closed-end fund will usually be bought and sold on the secondary market . Here is some more information from <URL> Some characteristics that distinguish a closed-end fund from an ordinary open-end mutual fund are that : it is closed to new capital after it begins operating , and its shares ( typically ) trade on stock exchanges rather than being redeemed directly by the fund . its shares can therefore be traded during the market day at any time . An open-end fund can usually be traded only at the closing price at the end of the market day . a CEF usually has a premium or discount . An open-end fund sells at its NAV ( except for sales charges ) . Another distinguishing feature of a closed-end fund is the common use of leverage or gearing to enhance returns . CEFs can raise additional investment capital by issuing auction rate securities , preferred shares , long-term debt , and/or reverse-repurchase agreements . In doing so , the fund hopes to earn a higher return with this excess invested capital .
Nothing is stopping you from opening up Roth IRAs in different companies and contributing the maximum to each one , but if you do n't withdraw contributions ( and any earnings generated by the withdrawn contributions while within the IRA ) so as to leave a total contribution of $ 5500 for 2013 , then Yes , you will be penalized . You do not report contributions to a Roth IRA on your tax return , but companies report to the IRS on the IRA accounts they hold , and the contributions and withdrawals/distributions made each year into each IRA account . Each company will send you a copy of the form that it sent in to the IRS so you wo n't be blind-sided in this matter . You will then get a letter from the IRS informing you that you have to pay penalties ( the technical term is a 6 % excise tax ) for over-contributing to your IRA . If you obdurately refuse to remove the excess contributions ( and any earnings generated by the excess contributions ) , that tax will be assessed in the years following too , until the matter is set right . . Note also that the maximum allowable contribution is reduced ( and ultimately eliminated entirely ) for people with high Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) . Some people make a contribution to a Roth IRA each year but then withdraw it in timely fashion when they discover that their MAGI is too high ( often during the preparation of their income tax returns ) .
William - You need to go to a local branch right now . I know few brokers that will guarantee a same day transaction of this type . I tried to read your question a few times , and am stuck . I believe I understand Traditional IRAs , Roth IRAs , and the rules of conversion pretty well . It sounds to me like you want to have income in 2010 for one transaction , and over the 11-12 tax years for another . A recharacterization should n't be part of this . Recharacterizing takes you back to a traditional IRA from a Roth conversion . But if there 's something you actually need done , today is the last day , and direct dialog with the broker is probably best . If you edit your question for clarity , I 'll edit my response . Edit - Taking the income in 2010 was a choice , take in 10 or split over 11 and 12 . The only way to take over all three years would have been to convert or deposit in different accounts . Recharacterizing does n't apply in this scenario . For future readers - part of this discussion surrounds a one-time chance to convert from one IRA type to another and defer that income over the next two tax years . It 's an important issue , but one that will not apply after this evening . Today is the final day for 2010 returns even with extension of 6 months .
There is no maximum . The only stipulation other than contribution limits is that you must take withdrawals at age 70 1/2 .
Toward the philosophical side of your question , it seems to me that what is most important is knowing how well your fund is performing versus it 's benchmark . This is an actionable piece of information that can help you get out of an under-performing fund , although if you 're already using Vanguard it 's likely a low cost and broadly diversified fund . Ultimately , what you want to avoid over the long term is under-performing the market due to high fees , market timing , poor fund selection etc. , and selecting a fund that closely tracks the market seems to be the best way to achieve this , assuming that you intend to be a passive investor . I do n't see a clear benefit to calculating a personal rate of return . If the fund is performing well versus its benchmark , you are likely to stay with it , and if it is performing poorly , you are likely to pull out . At the end of the day , the complicated accounting wo n't actually change the amount you 've got in your account , so I 'd recommend picking a good fund , checking up on it once in a great while , and putting your time to better purpose .
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
What the automation mostly does is make short-term trading that much more difficult . Day trading is a zero-sum game , so if they win more , everyone else wins less . Long term trading ( years to decades ) is a positive-sum game ; the market as a whole tends to move upward for fairly obvious reasons ( at its basis it 's still investing , which in turn is based on lending , and as long as folks make fairly rational decisions about how much return they demand for their investment and the companies are mostly producing profits there will be a share of the profit coming back to the investors as dividends or increased share value or both . Day-to-day churn in individual stocks gets averaged out by diversification and time , and by the assumption that if you 've waited that long you can wait a bit longer if necessary for jitters to settle out . Time periods between those will partake of some mix of the two .
You can make the rollover at a later time without a problem . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Roth IRA , the timing will affect your taxes . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Traditional IRA , also called a Rollover IRA in this case , you can do it at any time . The only exception would be if you have less than $ 5000 vested in the 401k they can force you to take a distribution from the plan . From experience , not all plans enforce this provision , but they are not forced to keep your 401k open unless you have at least $ 5000 . Update : I found out some additional information recently that I was n't aware of . Apparently you once the money is in a Rollover IRA , it can be converted into a Roth IRA at any later point without incurring a distribution penalty ( of course , you still have to pay that taxes at the point of conversion ) . There is no time limit for the conversion either .
end question
start question
FTB sent refund check for 2011 during audit ; Does this really mean that whole audit is over for 2011 ?
Not it does n't , and yes they can . If the audit is closed , you should have received invitation to attend the closing conference , and get the summary of decisions from that meeting in writing . I suggest you check with your tax representative about this refund check before cashing it .
<URL> has this definition of duration : The duration number is a complicated calculation involving present value , yield , coupon , final maturity and call features . Fortunately for investors , this indicator is a standard data point provided in the presentation of comprehensive bond and bond mutual fund information . The bigger the duration number , the greater the interest-rate risk or reward for bond prices . As for Yield Type , I suspect C would be Coupon bonds while M would be bonds that the interest would be paid at Maturity .
No , the IRR is n't how your funds are performing in the market unless you are putting in the max on Jan. 1 and then not adding or removing anything for the year so that it matches the total return of the fund . It 's a computation of what is your personal rate of return in terms of how much money have you put in , which is beginning balance plus contributions , compared to the ending balance factoring in any withdrawals . Thus it is how much each dollar you invested did over the course of the period that the return is given . Something to point out here is that if you are dollar-cost averaging then the IRR is a better measure of how your performance is as it is n't quite the same as the total return of the fund . Consider the case of a fund that goes up 10 % each month and you invest $ 100/month into the fund for an entire year , just to keep the Math simple here . The fund 's total return is ( 1.1 ) ^ 12 = 3.138428376721 which is 214 % . So , if you invested $ 1200 at the start of the year , you 'd have $ 3766.11 at the end of the year for a gain of $ 2566.11 . However , if we space out the computations , the end total becomes a mere $ 2352.27 , for a gain of $ 1152.27 , as the compounding is reduced . Thus , in this case your IRR is 96 % since you invested $ 1200 and made $ 1152.27 on it . For those wanting the raw figures , here is the $ 100/month returns at the end of each month : 110 231 364 .1 510.51 671.561 848.7171 1043.58881 1257.947691 1493.74246 1753.116706 2038.428377 2352.271214 In contrast , here is how the $ 1200 invested as a lump sum , does : 1320 1452 1597 .2 1756.92 1932.612 2125.8732 2338.46052 2572.306572 2829.537229 3112.490952 3423.740047 3766.114052 As the final totals are rather different , the rate of returns should also be quite different . The total returns are different because in one case , the person spaced out the purchases compared to the other case . These should n't both have the same return unless you 're going to factor in the time value of money somehow to make up the difference .
Yes it does ! The market prices this in on Fridays And even better , on three days weekends and other holidays the additional time decay gets priced in causing option decay to happen even faster on the day before the market is closed . This happens because options still have utility on days the market is closed . If there is an earthquake in Japan on a weekend and you have put options on the Nikkei index , you will still get the utility when the Nikkei drops 80 % when the market reopens
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
It reminds me of the Efficient Market Hypothesis , except that just states in its weakest form that the current market price accounts for all information embedded in previous market prices . In other words , people buying today at 42 know it was selling for 40 yesterday , and the patterns and such . To say that stock is memoryless strikes me as not quite right -- to the extent that stocks are valued based on earnings , much of what we infer about future earnings relies on past and present earnings . One obvious counterexample to this " memoryless " claim is bankruptcy . If a stock files bankruptcy , and there is n't enough money to pay senior debt , your shares are worth 0 in perpetuity .
200 period moving average means the average over the last 200 units the chart is in . So if you are looking at a weekly chart the period is weeks , if you are looking at a daily chart the period is daily , if you are looking at an hourly chart the period is hourly , etc. .
The European Central Bank 's Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices was set at 100 in 2005 . In December 2010 , the most recent month for which it 's available , it was 111.3 . So $ 1000 in 2005 would buy you the same amount of stuff as $ 1113 would now . Source : <URL>
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
Am I right to worry about both of these ? Of course . Who carries $ 75K in cash for no good reason ? Your friend got the cash from somewhere , did n't he ? If its legit - there 's paper trail to show . Same for your parents . If you/they can show the legit paper trail - there 's nothing to worry about , the hassle , at worse , is a couple of letters to the IRS . If the money is not legit ( your friend is selling crack to the kids in the hood and your parents robbed a 7/11 to give you the money , for example ) - there may be problems .
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
You should initial for any alteration made to the check . <URL> of the Uniform Commercial Code , which deals with altered checks , specifies a wide array of actions that constitute an altered check , so you want to make sure that you 've initialed for any change you make to the check that would constitute an " altered check " without such authorization . ( a ) " Alteration " means ( i ) an unauthorized change in an instrument that purports to modify in any respect the obligation of a party , or ( ii ) an unauthorized addition of words or numbers or other change to an incomplete instrument relating to the obligation of a party . If you need to change the amount , however , you 're probably better off shredding the check . Remember that it 's very easy for someone to commit fraud if they <URL> . If you do n't have access to a shredder , see Victor 's <URL> for an easy way to securely shred the check .
With all due respect to calculators , most are missing something . The MSN calculator assumes you will pay the conversion tax out of the IRA itself . Most agree that if you do n't have the funds in non-retirement accounts , do n't convert . Second , it assumes you know your current <URL> ( I hope you do ) and your marginal tax rate at retirement ( I sure do n't . In fact , I believe this is not knowable . ) To answer your question - yes , you may convert in 2011 . But should you ? What bracket are you in now ? In general , it would take quite of bit of saving to retire in a higher bracket , or a great defined benefit plan , or both . I wrote an article titled <URL> , in which I walk through the math to illustrate this . A general rule I offer is that if you are adamant about converting , understand your tax bracket and convert just enough to ' top off ' that bracket . For most people , this means topping off the 15 % bracket and avoiding the 25 % bracket , in 2012 for singles , 15 % runs from $ 8700 to $ 35,350 , joint , $ 17,400 to $ 70,700 . Remember this is taxable income , not gross , so the numbers shift up by exemptions , and deductions , whether standard or itemized . Sorry if I sound preachy , I just want to help others avoid the conversion bandwagon , paying taxes at 25 % and even at 15 % , but then finding they are in the zero bracket at retirement with no income to offset . ( I use the term " zero bracket " as a euphemism for the total of the exemptions and deductions . The amount you can have as income and have zero taxable income . You do sound like you are on the right path with some savings in the 401 ( k ) along with its match . My answer here may help you analyze that balance and either confirm you are good , or tweak a bit . Edited my answer to show 2012 numbers .
It depends on what you paid for , but usually audit support is an unrelated engagement to the return preparation . If the accountant made a professional mistake , you can request correction and compensation from that accountant , other than that any accountant can help you with audit regardless of who prepared the return . The original accountant would probably be better informed about why you reported each number on the return and how it was calculated , but if you kept all the docs , it can be recalculated again . That 's what happens in the audit anyway .
Neither TurboTax nor H&amp;R Block are intended for Non-Resident filers . You should continue using GLACIER if you have access to it , or talk to a professional tax preparer ( EA/CPA licensed in your State or a properly accredited tax preparer ) who 's experienced with foreigners filing NR returns . Knowing how many days you were in or out of the country is not enough , your immigration status matters , and also your citizenship . During the first 5 years , most students are considered non-residents if they 're in F1/J1 status and the days of their presence while in that status do n't count . For citizens of some countries , this period is not limited , due to the tax treaty , and the days of their presence do n't count even after the 5 years , as long as they 're in J1/F1 status . If you are considered resident in the US for the whole year - you do not get any " rebate " for the days you were out of country .
The intended use involves the power plays that occur amongst the senior officers of a company as they jockey for position through mergers , board control , takeovers , and other activities that are unique to the executive realm . A lot of this certainly involves holding your hand close and revealing information strategically and deliberately if it furthers your cause . And I 'm sure there 's a lot of bluffing and folding ( resignations ) . With regard to that article you posted , it 's also appears to be a bit of a mystery from the outside looking in , because only the people playing know the rules . A more pedestrian use of the term is an actual poker match with a high buy-in -- presumably high enough that only CEOs would have this kind of money to throw away .
If $ X is the amount saved as of the beginning of the time period , $ Y is the amount contributed at fixed intervals of time ( once a month , once a quarter , once a year , whatever ) , and the contribution is made at the end of the interval and during each such interval , the earnings on the account are 100z % for that time period , then , at the end of the first interval , the account will have $ X ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the second interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the third interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 3 + Y ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it money.SE does not support MathJax and so additional math gets messier , but some people may have recognized the calculations as being the same as what is called <URL> for evaluating a polynomial . The polynomial in question is a polynomial with variable t given by Xt ^ n + Yt ^ { n-1 } + Yt ^ { n-2 } + ... + Yt + Y and it is evaluated at t = 1 + z. Note that if the periodic contributions are variable instead of being fixed , this is easily accommodated by changing the appropriate coefficient of the polynomial . On the other hand , for fixed contributions , the polynomial in question can be expressed Xt ^ n + Y ( t ^ n - 1 ) / ( t-1 ) which , when evaluated as t = 1 + z gives X ( 1 + z ) ^ n + Y ( ( 1 + z ) ^ n-1 ) / z as the amount that one will have after n time intervals have elapsed .
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
Does the 457 ( b ) plan allow for the rollover of other retirement funds into it ? And do you have very specific reasons for wanting to roll over your SEP-IRA into the 457 ( b ) plan instead of into some other IRA plan with a different custodian ? For example , if you already have a Traditional IRA , is there any reason why your SEP-IRA should not be rolled over into the Traditional IRA ? With regard to the question about separate accounts , once upon a time , rolling over money from an employment retirement plan ( e.g. 401k ) into a Traditional IRA required establishing a separate account called a Rollover Traditional IRA so that the rolled-over money ( and the earnings thereon ) were not commingled with standard traditional IRA money resulting from personal contributions ) . This was so that the account owner had the option of rolling over the separately kept money into a new employer 's retirement plan ( if such a rollover was permitted by the new 401k plan ) . If one did not want to ever roll over money into a new employer plan , one had to write a letter to the custodian telling them that commingling was OK ; you never wanted to put that money into another 401k plan . The law changed some time later and the concept of Rollover IRAs holding non-commingled funds has disappeared . With that as prologue , my answer to your question is that perhaps the law did not change with respect to 457 ( b ) plans , and so the money that you want to rollover into the 457 ( b ) plan needs to be kept separate and not commingled with your contributions via payroll deduction to the 457 ( b ) plan ( in case you want to ever roll over the SEP-IRA money into another SEP-IRA ) . Hence , separate accounts are needed : one to hold your SEP-IRA money and one to hold your contributions via payroll deductions .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
end question
start question
Health insurance deduction on schedule C if also full time employee with w2 ?
Checkout the worksheet on page 20 of Pub 535 . Also the text starting in the last half of the third column of page 18 onward . <URL> The fact that you get a W-2 is irrelevant as far as I can see . Your self-employment business has to meet some criteria ( such as being profitable ) and the plan needs to be provided through your own business ( although if you 're sole proprietor filing on Schedule C , it looks like having it in your own name does the trick ) . Check the publication for all of the rules . There is this exception that would prevent many people with full-time jobs on W-2 from taking the deduction : Other coverage . You can not take the deduction for any month you were eligible to participate in any employer ( including your spouse 's ) subsidized health plan at any time during that month , even if you did not actually participate . In addition , if you were eligible for any month or part of a month to participate in any subsidized health plan maintained by the employer of either your dependent or your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2014 , do not use amounts paid for coverage for that month to figure the deduction . ( Pages 20-21 ) . Sounds like in your case , though , this does n't apply . ( Although your original question does n't mention a spouse , which might be relevant to the rule if you have one and he/she works . ) The publication should help . If still in doubt , you 'll probably need a CPA or other professional to assess your individual situation .
I 'd say you got this pretty close . The $ 900 multiplies to $ 10,800 , and becomes a Schedule A deduction to the extent that it exceeds 10 % of your adjusted gross income . The $ 1200 company plan simply comes off the top for tax purposes .
No . The employer match is not included for several reasons . The vesting schedule is different for each company , so that they would have to tell the IRS that the match was X$ 's this year for this employee , but the amount that was vested is Y . The next year some of the first years money would have to be declared by the company as new covered by vesting . The bigger issue is that no matter if the employee contribution is pre-tax , post-tax or Roth , the match has not been taxed and will be taxed when the money is withdrawn either during retirement or early . Check that the amount stated on the W-2 matches what was on your last pay stub for the year in question .
Here are a few ways : If you have all of your pay stubs , you can calculate your gross pay . If the deductions are broken out , you can calculate how much was withheld . If your pay stub has year-to-date totals for each deduction , take the last paycheck of the year to see what the 2012 totals were . If all of your paychecks are the same , you can estimate by taking the deductions and gross amount of one paycheck and multiply it by the number of paychecks to get the totals .
They will credit your account and it will be applied to future purchases . If the credit card is not used for several months , they will send you a check or transfer it to your bank account . Some people on this site have actually considered sending money to the credit card company in advance , so that the amount that can be charged is temporarily inflated . Keep in mind they will eventually refund the money . Plus you will not earn interest on the refund .
California is not one of the states that have a " Connivence of Employer " rules that would force a non-resident ( telecommuter ) to pay state income tax As of 2013 , only New York , Pennsylvania , Delware , and Nebraska have these laws . If you spent a portion of the year physically working in CA , that would change things , but not for a 100 % telecommute situation
Checkout the worksheet on page 20 of Pub 535 . Also the text starting in the last half of the third column of page 18 onward . <URL> The fact that you get a W-2 is irrelevant as far as I can see . Your self-employment business has to meet some criteria ( such as being profitable ) and the plan needs to be provided through your own business ( although if you 're sole proprietor filing on Schedule C , it looks like having it in your own name does the trick ) . Check the publication for all of the rules . There is this exception that would prevent many people with full-time jobs on W-2 from taking the deduction : Other coverage . You can not take the deduction for any month you were eligible to participate in any employer ( including your spouse 's ) subsidized health plan at any time during that month , even if you did not actually participate . In addition , if you were eligible for any month or part of a month to participate in any subsidized health plan maintained by the employer of either your dependent or your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2014 , do not use amounts paid for coverage for that month to figure the deduction . ( Pages 20-21 ) . Sounds like in your case , though , this does n't apply . ( Although your original question does n't mention a spouse , which might be relevant to the rule if you have one and he/she works . ) The publication should help . If still in doubt , you 'll probably need a CPA or other professional to assess your individual situation .
If you drive from your home to work site you can not deduct the mileage because it is considered a commuting expense . Now if you have an office ( not a home office ) and drive to the office and then on to the client site it would be deductible . Whether you buy or lease a car for the purpose wo n't have any affect on the deduct-ability ( assuming sole prop or single per LLC ) .
A non-deductible IRA contribution gives you the same sort of benefit as a deductible contribution does , just less of it . In all cases , you are postponing paying taxes on some income until you withdraw it years later . This postponement : Postpones taxes on the income ( e.g. interest ) earned on your principle over the years . This is beneficial because of the following aspects . Provides income on the postponed taxes over those years . This interest income is income you would not have otherwise ever received . Allows the income to be taxed at your retirement tax bracket rather than the current tax bracket . This might be lower if your retirement income is lower and/or tax rates are lower , but might be higher if the opposite holds . ( Also , one gets no benefit from capital gains rates on IRA-generated income . ) Allows the postponed taxes to be paid in " cheaper " dollars if inflation has occurred over the years . The difference is that with a non-deductible IRA contribution one is not postponing a large chunk of current-year taxes , and so does not gain the above benefits on those taxes . One only gains on the taxes that are postponed on the income which accumulates inside the IRA . ( With a non-deductible contribution , one does not pay taxes on the contribution a second time when the contribution is withdrawn during retirement , if one keeps proper records . )
You can use 1040EZ . If there were any difference between the purchase price and the fair market value ( which there was n't in your case ) , it would have been listed as income on your W-2 , and you would report it as wages on your tax return , which can be done on 1040 or 1040A or 1040EZ . You have not sold anything , so there would not be " investment income " to report anyway .
Assuming that you qualify for Social Security and it is still around when you are age 67 , the biggest problem you will have is that for decades you will have 0 in your annual earnings . <URL> will let you enter zero income for future years , you will see what impact that has on your benefits . Using the default values for a DOB of 6/15/1984 and retiring in July 2051 : Your estimated monthly benefit amount , beginning at age 67 and 1 month in 2051 , is $ 1,555.00 . For your estimate , we assumed no future increases in prices or earnings . After changing future earnings to zero : Your estimated monthly benefit amount , beginning at age 67 and 1 month in 2051 , is $ 681.00 . For your estimate , we assumed no future increases in prices or earnings .
Thus I am thinking of asking the insurance agent to check if she recorded all of the above , because I know that the insured must be honest with the insurer . Is this the correct next step ? I do not know if any " contest-ability period " affects my mother Quite a few illness affect the insurance premium or validity . Hence it is important to disclose these and let the insurance company decide . Thus you should disclose this in writing to the insurance company and get a written confirmation . You could approach the insurance agent , however at times they are not motivated to do this service and may verbally tell you that its not an issue . Hence its advisable that you have documentary proof of this correspondence . Depending on the insurance policy and terms , the insurance company may terminate the policy or keep it with increase in premium or keep the existing policy valid .
In general I 'd say , yeah , if you can pay cash , pay cash . If you pay cash , then by definition you pay zero interest . If you get a loan , you 'll pay interest . Most people get a loan to buy a car because they do n't have the cash . Possible reasons not to pay cash when you could : One : Technically you can pay cash , but if you did , you would have little or no reserve for emergencies . Like if the car costs , say , $ 20,000.00 , and you have $ 20,010.00 in your bank account , then technically you could afford to pay cash , but you probably should n't , because you do n't want to have just $ 10 left . What if tomorrow something comes up ? Two : Arguably , you have a place to invest money that pays more than the interest on the loan . Like say you can get a car loan for , whatever the going rate is today , say 6 % . And you know a place to invest your money that is very safe and almost guaranteed to pay 10 % . It would make sense to borrow to buy the car , invest the cash , and then withdraw money from the investment to make the payments on the car . You 'd end up 4 % ahead . There are a lot of catches to that strategy , though . The biggest is that the more the investment pays , the more likely that it is risky . If you thought the investment would pay 10 % but it ends up paying only 4 % , then you will lose money by this strategy . Also , there 's the psychological element : Many people SAY and fully INTEND to invest their money , but then find other things they want to buy and so spend it instead . If you pay cash , you 're committed .
There seems to be a bit of confusion here . Let me answer as if the 2011 estate tax exemption amount is back to $ 1M . It 's just you and the kid . Your total worth when you pass on is $ 500K plus you own that $ 1M policy with your son as beneficiary . The estate is valued at $ 1.5 M and tax is due on $ 500K . What matters is who owned the policy , not who the beneficiary is . As the kids get older , you are best off transferring ownership ( even if the policies are term ) and gifting them money to pay the premium . This avoids the convoluted plans you may have read about . Your question helps exemplify why the changing estate tax laws are so difficult . 2009 the exemption was so high , my wife and I had nothing to worry about . Next year , it 's easy to go over . The very simple answer is " yes , if you own the policy , it 's part of your estate for tax purposes . "
After he adds you to his policy , pay the difference in cost with you on the policy . In the case of an accident , pay 100 % of his deductible . In the case of an accident , pay the difference in cost with you on the policy for the remainder of the time you rent the car . With most policies , once you are removed from it , his cost will go back to what it was . Note that # 3 is the reason it 's particularly important for you to be added to his policy . If you borrow the car , are not on his policy , and get in an accident , his rate will go up and will not go down when you stop using the car .
There are a lot of moving parts , individual premiums and annual increases have little to do with employer premiums and annual increases and vice versa . Most people think of XYZ insurer as a single company with a single pool of insured folks . This common knowledge is n't accurate . Insurers pool their business segments separately . This means that Individual , small business , mid-size business , and large business are all different operating segments from the viewpoint of the insurer . It 's possible to argue that because so many people are covered by employer plans that individual plans have a hard time accumulating the required critical mass of subscribers to keep increases reasonable . Age banded rating : Individual coverage and small group coverage is age rated , meaning every year you get older . In addition to your age increase , the premium table for your plan also receives an increase . Employers with 100 + eligible employees are composite rated ( in general ) , meaning every employee costs the same amount . The 18 year old employee costs $ 500 per month , the 64 year old costs $ 500 per month . Generally , the contributions an employee pays to participate in the plan are also common among all ages . This means that on a micro level increases can be more incremental because the employer is abstracting the gross premium . Composite rating generally benefits older folks while age rating generally benefits younger folks . Employer Morale Incentive : Generally the cost to an employee covered by an employer plan is n't directly correlated to the gross premium , and increases to the contribution ( s ) are n't necessarily correlated to the increases the employer receives . Employers are incentivised by employee morale . It 's pretty common for employers to shoulder a disproportionate amount of an increase to keep everyone happy . Employers may offset the increase by shopping some ancillary benefit like group life insurance , or bundling the dental program with the medical carrier . Remember , employees do n't pay premiums they pay contributions and some employers are more generous than others . Employers are also better at budgeting for planned increases than individuals are . Regulators : In many of the states that are making the news because of their healthcare premium increases there simply is n't a regulator scrutinizing increases . California requires all individual and small group premiums to be filed with the state and increases must be justified with some sort of math and approved by a regulator . Without this kind of oversight insurers have only the risk of subscriber flight to adjust plan provisions and press harder during provider contract negotiations . Expiring Transitional Reinsurance Fee and Funds : One of the fees introduced by healthcare reform paid by insurers and self-insured employers established a pot of money that individual plans could tap to cope with the new costs of the previously uninsurable folks . This fee and corresponding pot of money is set to expire and can no longer be taken in to account by underwriters . Increased Treatment Availability : It 's important that as new facilities go online , insurer costs will increase . If a little town gets a new cancer clinic , that pool will see more cancer treatment costs simply as a result of increased treatment availability . Consider that medical care inflation is running at about 4.9 % annually as of the most recent CPI table , the rest of the increases will result from the performance of that specific risk pool . If that risk pool had a lot of cancer diagnoses , you 're looking at a big increase . If that risk pool was under priced the prior year you will see an above average increase , etc. .
You can check this website : <URL> It asks you some basic questions about how much of a deductable you would like , whether or not you would like dental insurance and so on . You should be able to use Google translate to help if need be . As for the health insurance subsidy ( zorgtoeslag ) , the above website says the criteria to receive it are : You 're 18 years or older You 're a Dutch citizen or legally staying in the Netherlands You have a " basic " health insurance plan as specified in the law You are not in prison , in active military service or are not opposed to insurance due to religious reasons You have a maximum income of ( in 2014 ) 28.482 as a single person or 37.145 with a partner . The amount of subsidy you could get depends on your income ( as shown in the graph on the same webpage ) : <URL> The simplest way to deal with these things is to get some help from a local once you are there . If a few euro / month subsidy is going to make or break your decision to study in the Netherlands , I would advise against going there . The rules around these things tend to change every couple of years , sometimes favorably and sometimes unfavorably .
You are correct and the ATO is incorrect . Basically the ATO staff are as lazy as they can be . If you have entered the Parental pay leave at Item 1 - Salary or wages , as you correctly have , the ATO staff will not go into the background details of whom the payment is from by checking the ABN ( i.e. finding out that the payment comes from Centrelink and not an employer ) . You have to basically inform them in writing as an attachment with your Tax Return . As you have not done that , no matter how many times you call the ATO to go through your case , even if the Customer Service Officer ends up agreeing with you , it then gets sent to someone else to review it . And unless they have something in writing to explain the issue they will just dismiss it and still disallow the deduction . So what you have to do is to download an <URL> , fill it out and explain your case in detail and fax it to the ATO together with any evidence supporting your case . As this is now in writing explaining your case you should get someone at the ATO who actually corrects the ATO error , but be aware it will take some time and the ATO may ask you to pay any monies due in the mean time . Try to get the payment deferred if you can until the matter is resolved . When you talk to ATO staff on the phone regarding this issue always ask them for their name and the reference number . Record this down together with the time and date of the call . You never know when you might need this information , especially if you are given the wrong information by someone and you act on it .
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
end question
start question
Do common stocks and preferred stocks have any differences in terms of percentage of the company per unit they represent ?
Typically , preferred shares come with one or both different benefits - a disproportionate share of votes , say 10 votes per share vs the normal 1 , or a preferred dividend . The vote preference is great for the owner ( s ) looking to go public , but not lose control of the company . Say , I am a Walton ( of Walmart fame ) and when I went public , I sold 80 % of the ( 1000 share total ) company . But , in creating the share structure , 20 % of shares were assigned 10 votes each . 800 shares now trade with 800 votes , 200 shares have 10 votes each or 2000 votes . So , there are still the 1000 shares but 2800 votes . The 20 % of shares now have 2000/2800 or 71 % of the total votes . So , my shares are just less than half ownership , but over 78 % of votes . Preferred dividend is as simple as that , buy Stock A for ownership , or ( same company ) Stock A preferred shares which have ownership and $ 1/yr dividend . Edited to show a bit more math . I use a simple example to call out a total 1000 shares . The percentages would be the same for a million or billion shares if 20 % were a 10 vote preferred .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
There is an arithmetically calculated value for the difference , or spread , between the futures contract price and the actual cash value of the underlying stocks ( in the appropriate weighting ) comprising the S&amp;P 500 . This spread is a function of current short term interest rates and the time remaining until the futures contract expires . Whenever the spread is at fair value , there is no benefit from owning the futures instead of the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks , or vice-versa . When the <URL> , by a large enough margin , then ... either stocks or futures will become more attractive than the other , and they [ traders in size ] will sell one and buy the other . The spread varies all day , because the futures contract and the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks trade independently of each other . The futures trade in Chicago at the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . The underlying S&amp;P 500 stocks trade on the NYSE in New York , a different marketplace . Supply and demand for ALL 500 stocks in the S&amp;P index determine the cash price of the S&amp;P 500 . Sometimes , there are short term discrepancies , which might seem to present an opportunity for arbitrage . When those discrepancies happen , and they can be due to many insignificant things e.g. the normal progression or " rolling over " of futures contract expiration dates , the spread can deviate from fair value . These differences are not large in magnitude , and the market quickly reacts removing any discount or premium . So there really is n't a chance for most investors to benefit from this sort of arbitrage . This is the formula for the fair value of the spread : where F = break even futures price S = spot index price i = interest rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) d = dividend rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) t = number of days from today 's spot value date to the value date of the futures contract . Something like <URL> presents more opportunity for mild arbitrage . To directly answer your question , no , shorting the S&amp;P futures wo n't move the underlying prices of the 500 stocks . The relationship goes in the other direction i.e. the price of the 500 stocks , with the exception of tiny variations like I described above , are what drive the price of the futures contract .
The value of a currency may be different depending on what you use for a ' value ' . For example , the Japanese Yen may have a different ' value ' if you are comparing it against the Euro or the US Dollar , for example . Believe it or not , the smallest unit of currency ( in terms of value of US dollars ) is the Vietnamese Dong , at a value of 0.00005 Dollars per Dong . Maybe the Zimbabwean dollar is counted differently , maybe / <URL> has a cool currency converter which allows you to compare all current world currencies against a single currency , and presents it in a chart form .
This is only a rule of thumb . Peter Lynch popularized it ; the ratio PE/growth is often called the <URL> . At best it 's a very rough guideline . It completely ignores the balance sheet . It makes no distinction between accounting earnings and cash flow . It does n't consider qualitative characteristics like management competence . I could fill up this page with other caveats . I 'm not saying that it 's wrong , only that it 's grossly incomplete . For a 10 second eyeball valuation of growth stocks , it 's fine . But that 's the extent of its usefulness .
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
If you are comfortable with the risk etc , then the main thing to worry about is diversity . For some folks , picking stocks is beyond them , or they have no interest in it . But if it 's working for you , and you want to keep doing it , more power to you . If you are comfortable with the risk , you could just as well have ALL your equity position in individual stocks . I would offer only two pieces of advice in that respect . 1 ) no more than 4 % of your total in any one stock . That 's a good way to force diversity ( provided the stocks are not clustered in a very few sectors like say ' financials ' ) , and make yourself take some of the ' winnings off the table ' if a stock has done well for you . 2 ) Pay Strong attention to Taxes ! You ca n't predict most things , but you CAN predict what you 'll have to pay in taxes , it 's one of the few known quantities . Be smart and trade so you pay as little in taxes as possible 2A ) If you live someplace where taxes on Long term gains are lower than short term ( like the USA ) then try really really hard to hold ' winners ' till they are long term . Even if the price falls a little , you might be up in the net compared to paying out an extra 10 % or more in taxes on your gains . Obviously there 's a balancing act there between when you feel something is ' done ' and the time till it 's long term . . but if you 've held something for 11 months , or 11 months and 2 weeks , odds are you 'd be better off to hold till the one year point and then sell it . 2B ) Capture Losses when you have them by selling and buying a similar stock for a month or something . ( beware the wash sale rule ) to use to offset gains .
Mentor Millonario say 's : The banking system if not that different from the one in the U.S. . What is different is the tax rules established for Puerto Rico by the U.S. For IRA purposes its like living abroad . From IRS code : Credits and deductions . If you claim the exclusion , you can not claim any credits or deductions that are related to the excluded income . Thus , you can not claim a foreign tax credit or deduction for any foreign income tax paid on the excluded income . Nor can you claim the earned income credit if you claim the exclusion . Also , for IRA purposes , the excluded income is not considered compensation and , for figuring deductible contributions when you are covered by an employer retirement plan , the excluded income is included in your modified adjusted gross income .
Mutual funds are collections of investments that other people pay to join . It would be simpler to calculate the value of all these investments at one time each day , and then to deem that any purchases or sales happen at that price . The fund diversifies rather than magnifies risk , looking to hold rather than enjoy a quick turnaround . Nobody really needs hourly updated price information for an investment they intend to hold for decades . They quote their prices on a daily basis and you take the daily price . This makes sense for a vehicle that is a balanced collection of many different assets , most of which will have varying prices over the course a day . That makes pricing complicated . This <URL> explains mutual fund pricing and the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 , which mandates daily price reporting . It also illustrates the complexity : How does the fund pricing process work ? Mutual fund pricing is an intensive process that takes place in a short time frame at the end of the day . Generally , a fund 's pricing process begins at the close of the New York Stock Exchange , normally 4 p.m. Eastern time . The fund 's accounting agent , which may be an affiliated entity such as the fund 's adviser , or a third-party servicer such as the fund 's administrator or custodian bank , is usually responsible for calculating the share price . The accounting agent obtains prices for the fund 's securities from pricing services and directly from brokers . Pricing services collect securities prices from exchanges , brokers , and other sources and then transmit them to the fund 's accounting agent . Fund accounting agents internally validate the prices received by subjecting them to various control procedures . For example , depending on the nature and extent of its holdings , a fund may use one or more pricing services to ensure accuracy . Note that under Rule 22c-1 forward pricing , fund shareholders receive the next daily price , not the last daily price . Forward pricing makes sense if you want shareholders to get the most accurate sale or purchase price , but not if you want purchasers and sellers to be able to make precise calculations about gains and losses ( how can you be precise if the price wo n't be known until after you buy or sell ? ) .
The penny/pink sheet stocks you tend to see promoted are the ones a ) with small public floats or , b ) they are thinly traded . This means that any appreciable change in buy/sell volume will have an outsized effect on the stock 's share price , even when the underlying fundamentals are not so great . Promoters are frequently paid based on how much they can move a stock 's price , but such moves are not long-lasting . They peter out when the trading volumes return to more normal ranges for the stock because all of the hype has died out . There are some small-cap NASDAQ stocks which can be susceptible to promotion for the same reason -- they have small floats and/or are thinly traded . Once someone figures out the best targets , they 'll accumulate a position and then start posting all kinds of " news " on the web in an effort to drum up interest so they can sell off their position into the buying that follows . The biggest problem with penny/pink sheet stocks is that they frequently fail to publish reliable financial statements , and their ownership is of a dubious nature . In the past , these types of stocks have been targeted by organized crime syndicates , which ran their own " pump and dump " operations as a way to make relatively easy money . This may still be true to some extent today . Be wary of investing in any publicly-traded firm that has to use promoters to drum up investor interest , because it can be a serious red flag . Even if it means missing out on a short-term opportunity , research the company before investing . Read its financials , understand how it has behaved through its trading history , learn about the products/services it is selling . Do your homework . Otherwise you are doing the investing equivalent of taking your money and lighting it on fire . Remember , there 's a good reason these companies are trading as penny/pink sheet stocks , and it generally has nothing to do with the notion ( the promoters will tell you ) that somehow the " market has missed out on this amazing opportunity . " Pump and dump schemes , which lie at the heart of almost all stock promotion , rely on convincing you , the investor , that you 're smart enough to see what others have n't . I hope this helps . Good luck !
Unless stated otherwise , these terms apply to all bonds . Par value vs purchase price The <URL> or face value of a bond refers to the value of the bond when it 's redeemed at maturity . A bond with a par value of $ 10,000 simply means that if you purchase the bond and hold it until the maturity date specified in the contract , you receive $ 10,000 . The purchase price , however , is exactly that : it 's what you paid for the bond . Bonds may sell below , at , or above par . Continuing the example from above , if you paid $ 9,800 for a bought a bond with a $ 10,000 par value , you bought the bond below par . A bond selling below par is said to be selling at a discount . For bonds selling above bar , they 're selling at a premium . If the purchase price and the par value are the same , the bond is selling at par . Call price and call date These terms apply to <URL> only , which are bond contracts that allow the issuer of the bond ( in the case of municipal bonds , the institution or agency who created the contract ) to buy back from bond holders at a given date ( the call date ) and at a given price ( the call price ) before the bond reaches maturity and pays the holder the full par value . Coupon rate Yes , the <URL> is essentially the interest paid . It 's usually represented as a percent of the par value , so if the $ 10,000 in the example above had a 5 % coupon rate , this means that it paid out 0.05 * 10,000 = $ 500 each year . Usually , this payment is made as two semi-annual payments of $ 250 . Some bonds are <URL> , which means exactly what you would think ; they do n't make any coupon payments . U.S. Treasury Bills are one example of a zero-coupon bond . All of these factors are linked , because the coupon rate , callable provisions , and par value , along with the overall economic environment , can affect the purchase price of a bond .
The textbook answer would be " assets-liabilities + present discounted value of all future profit " . A&amp;L is usually simple ( if a company has an extra $ 1m in cash , it 's worth $ 1m more ; if it has an extra $ 1m in debt , it 's worth $ 1m less ) . If a company with ~ 0 assets and $ 50k in profit has a $ 1m valuation , then that implies that whoever makes that valuation ( wants to buy at that price ) really believes one of two things - either the future profit will be significantly larger than $ 50k ( say , it 's rapidly growing ) ; or the true worth of assets is much more - say , there 's some IP/code/patents / people that have low book value but some other company would pay $ 1m just to get that . The point is that valuation is subjective since the key numbers in the calculations are not perfectly known by anyone who does n't have a time machine , you can make estimates but the knowledge to make the estimates varies ( some buyers/sellers have extra information ) , and they can be influenced by those buyers/sellers ; e.g. for strategic acquisitions the value of company is significantly changed simply because someone claims they want to acquire it . And , $ 1m valuation for a company with $ 500m in profits is n't appropriate - it 's appropriate only if the profits are expected to drop to zero within a couple years ; a stagnant but stable company with $ 500m profits would be worth at least $ 5m and potentially much more .
I recently came across bitcoin , it is what I was really looking for at the time .
Check this list : <URL> . TASE is denominated in NIS , and most , if not all , companies that are traded there are tied to Israel and its currency . You can try going with the global companies ( TEVA , NICE etc ) which although are traded on TASE and are Israeli , have large global presence and are not dependent on Israeli market or currency ( of course they are , but not tightly ) . In Israel there 's tons of various mutual funds that you can invest through without hassle , and save yourself the dealing with foreign exchanges by paying the slightly higher management fees and getting slightly lower income and lack of flexibility and control . Or you can convert a large sum of NIS to USD ( through an investment house it will be much cheaper than through a bank , I 'm talking about commissions of $ 25-45 including the SWIFT fees here ) , and open an investment account in a US firm ( or Israeli investment house that allows trading abroad ) . That is actually pretty simple and straight forward . Oh , and bottom line - do n't do your investments in a bank . Not in Israel , and not everywhere else . Banks are not for investments , banks are for dealing with cash and short term savings .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
That means if you contribute $ 1000 , and that is equal to 5 % of your salary ( salary of $ 20k ) : It 's basically the same as taxes ; you can think of it as the marginal rate . So , for the " 40 % on the next 2 % " , that means that " first take the amount equal to 2 % of your salary , and match that 100 % . Then take the amount left and match at 40 % , up to the amount which is another 2 % of your ( original ) salary . " Whichever contribution bracket you 're in , the next dollar you contribute is at that matching percentage , and when you ' finish ' a bracket you are at a known total match amount - ie , you can pre-calculate all of those levels , just like the IRS does . So , you could reword this way : These are calculated by taking the ' cap ' of each range , and then adding that to the portion of the marginal range . You can think of it as buckets : while you 're filling one bucket , you get that bucket 's match . When that bucket 's full , the portion of match you got for that bucket is fixed at that amount , and you move to the next bucket and start matching at that rate for the money that 's going into that bucket . If it helps , here is a chart of your contribution versus match . The colors denote the buckets and thus the marginal rates , but are not otherwise meaningful . At any point in the line you can see your contribution ( on the bottom , x-axis ) and the corresponding company match ( on the left , y-axis ) . You can see in the red section , for example , that the slope changes - after 2 % your company matches only 0.4 times the value of your contribution from 2.01 % to 4 % of your original salary . If you 're contributing in a green section , then your company match is 100 % of what you contribute . If you 're in the red section , then your company match is 2 % of your salary , plus 40 % of your contribution over 2 % of your salary ; so your marginal rate is 40 % . This means that the next dollar you contribute will earn $ 0.40 from your company match . In the blue section , you earn 0.25 for every dollar you contribute , above and beyond 2.8 % of your salary .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
They are limiting your total investment in Notes to no more than 10 % of your net worth . Step 1 : determine your net worth Step 2 : Divide this number by 10 The answer is the maximum amount you can put at risk through Lendingclub . The issue is that if you lose all the investment you will not be bankrupted . If it was the other way you could invest all your net worth in Lendingclub by splitting it among 10 + notes . Your net worth is " determined exclusive of the value of your home , home furnishings and automobile . " Which means do n't include the house and the stuff in the house . That means your net worth is the money in the bank ; plus the money invested in stocks , ETFs , and mutual funds ; plus retirement accounts ( 401K , IRA ) ; minus loans ( student , credit cards ) .
If possible and if it applies - try to end your employment on thie first or second day of the month - typically your employer will cover the whole month so you get " free " coverage for those days . One gotcha for me when I needed coverage was I ended my employment at the end of the month and the cobra paperwork was not done when I needed healthcare shortly thereafter . What a hassle that was ... Make sure you pay the premiums on time . Do n't be afraid to call the employer and the plan administrator . Expect that you are going to have to do legwork if you actually use the coverage .
end question
start question
What argument ( s ) support the claim that long-term housing prices trend upward ?
Several people have mentioned the obvious : inflation . But let 's assume we are talking about real ( inflation adjusted ) prices . One argument is that populations keep rising while the land does not change . So the price of homes in desirable places gets pushed up and people move to second-best locations , pushing those prices up , etc. . Similar Malthusian argument holds for raw materials ( steel , granite , fine wood , etc. ) . Another argument is that the economy has a long-term upward trajectory ( that 's the assumption ) . So each generation , as a whole , has more disposable real income than the previous . As disposable income increases , people tend to put more and more money into their homes , pushing prices up . True for all goods , of course , but it may be more true for real estate than for other types of goods .
It 's not uniform at all . Some states already stabilized the real estate prices , other keep losing value . Florida , Nevada and California were probably hit the most . In some parts of New York City prices never really went down ( IMHO ) . Here is just one of the maps showing foreclosure rates for 2010 : <URL>
Sometimes the insurance company will require the individual to get a physical before setting the rates for a policy . they then can put the applicant into a risk pool based on existing or past health problems , lifestyle , blood pressure , cholesterol , along with age and sex . When an employer offers for free life insurance policy the insurer does n't require a physical they just assume that you will fit into the general pool . Some people will be better than average , and others will be worse , but it will even out . some companies insurers do require physicals if you go beyond the free level , or want to increase the coverage . If an organization is offering a group policy , that means that they have negotiated a deal with an insurer . Is it a better deal ? That depends on if you individual policy is in the high risk pool , If it is the group policy might be cheaper . Is it a better deal will also depend on the length of the term ; the maximum amount you can get through the plan ; can it be cancelled ; and how much is of the fee is going to the organization .
There seems to be no such information available . What is available is that number of claims are high and the Title Insurance companies have gone bankrupt as per the wikipedia article In 2003 , according to ALTA , the industry paid out about $ 662 million in claims , about 4.3 % percent of the $ 15.7 billion taken in as premiums . By comparison , the boiler insurance industry , which like title insurance requires an emphasis on inspections and risk analysis , pays 25 % of its premiums in claims . However , no reference to the relationship between when claims are made and when policies are issued is found . As of 2008 , the top three remaining title insurers all lost money , while LandAmerica went bankrupt and sold its title business to Fidelity <URL> The amount of premium received and claim made can be got from some of the companies balance sheet . For Fidelity its at <URL> The article in here mentions the claims ratio as 5 % . Refer <URL>
ETFs are traded as stocks , and you can buy any amount . The minimum amount limitation is for initial purchases from SPDR itself , which is not what you 're going to do . The direct purchase from SPDR is for financial institutions that buy ETFs in chunks of 100000 units and then sell them on secondary market , which is where you 're buying .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
Only cash and goods are considered charitable donations . A gift of services ( in this case free rent ) does not apply . She might qualify as a <URL> though . However since she you wrote " almost all of 2010 " I suspect she may go over the ~ $ 3k income limit .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
I 'm suspicious of a universal life policy being cheaper than an equivalent term life policy . This may be true for a single vendor with odd pricing , but not for the industry as a whole . Basically , Universal Life = Term Life + something else That something else , whether it is savings , investment , extra perks , etc. costs something and therefore must be more expensive . Is the insurance portion of the universal life policy a fixed rate ? Or are you paying less now and more later ( just for the insurance portion ) . Have you gotten term quotes from other insurance agents ? The easiest place I 've found to do that online is <URL> . Personal experience : I had a universal life policy . They itemized the insurance cost as $ 20 per month and my monthly payment was $ 100 . After 3 years , I ended the policy and got none of the cash value due to various fees totaling more than my contributions of $ 2880 .
It 's just shorthand for the interest rate that the bonds pay . " 5s " is short for " fives " , which is short for " bonds paying a five percent coupon rate " ; " 7s " is short for " sevens " , which is short for " bonds paying a seven percent coupon rate " . This terminology is still in use ; when a company has more than one series of bonds outstanding , one way of distinguishing them is to refer to them as " 5s " for the five percenters and " 7s " for the seven percenters .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
After reading their full guarantee page , it seems that they really do n't understand the definition of the word . They do n't seem to offer any guarantee , but rather just a list of reasons that they believe their plan is foolproof . Mostly they argue that their lawyers have covered every angle and a lot of big players use them so naturally everyone will respect the value of their online currency . Nowhere do they address what happens if their company goes belly up , which is the primary thing I 'd be worried about with this type of thing . Ironically they specifically state on their guarantee page Many first-rate payment systems tried to guarantee their stability but unfortunately failed to fulfill their obligations given to the users and contractors . Myopic investment policy and court claims of tax agencies have frequently adversely affected the work of Electronic Payment Systems . Which , personally , would make me even MORE nervous to use their system . Their guarantee amounts to , other systems have crashed and burned , but we are smarter than those guys and even hired lawyers to confirm it !
A 401k plan will ask you to name a beneficiary who will receive the funds if you do n't withdraw them all before death . Usually , a primary beneficiary and a secondary beneficiary is requested . If you do n't specify a beneficiary , your estate is the beneficiary by default . Note that the name supplied to the 401k plan is who will get the money , and you can not change this by bequeathing the money in your will . For example , if you neglected to change the beneficiary upon divorce , it is useless to say in your will that the money in the 401k plan goes to your new wife ; the 401k plan will give it to your ex-wife who still remains the beneficiary of your 401k Money in a 401k plan is what is called income with respect to a decedent ( IRD ) on which income tax is levied , and it is also is part of your estate and thus liable to be subject to estate tax . The latter is true even if the 401k plan assets are not mentioned anywhere in your will , and even if the assets got sent to your ex-wife which is not what you wanted to have happen . There are various estate tax exceptions for spouse beneficiaries ( no estate tax due now , but will be charged when the spouse passes away ) . With regard to income tax , the beneficiaries of a 401k plan ( similarly IRAs , 403b plans etc ) generally get to take the whole amount and pay the income tax themselves . Edit in response to littleadv 's comments : Each 401k plan is different , and some plans , especially the smaller ones , may prefer to distribute the 401k assets as a lump sum rather than allow the beneficiaries to withdraw the money over several years ( and pay income tax on the amount withdrawn each year ) . This is because there are far too many rules and regulations to trip over when making withdrawals over several years . The lump sum distribution can be transferred into a newly established Inherited IRA ( see the Nolo article linked to in @littleadv 's answer for some details and some pitfalls to avoid ) and the income tax is thus deferred until withdrawals occur . Spouse beneficiaries are entitled to more generous rules than non-spouse beneficiaries . If your heirs are otherwise well provided for and you are in a philanthropic mood ( or you do n't want to give 'em a dime , the ungrateful ... who never call , not even on Father 's Day ! ) , one way of avoiding a lot of tax is to make the beneficiary of your 401k be one or more of your favorite charities . In fact , if your testamentary inclination is to make some charitable bequests as part of your will , it is much more advantageous to give money from a tax-deferred account to the charity ( size of estate is reduced , no income tax paid by anyone on amount given ) , and bequeath assets in non-retirement accounts to one 's heirs ( bequests are not taxable income , and heirs get a step up in basis for assets that have appreciated ) rather than the other way around ( heirs pay income tax as they withdraw the money from tax-deferred account ) Estate planning is a complicated business , and you really should talk to a professional about such matters and not rely on advice from an Internet forum .
Options reflect expectations about the underlying asset , and options are commonly priced using the Black-Scholes model : and are probability functions , is the spot ( current ) price of the asset , is the strike price , is the risk free rate , and represents time to maturity . Without getting into the mathematics , it suffices to say that higher volatility or expectation of volatility increases the perceived riskiness of the asset , so call options are priced lower and put options are priced higher . Think about it intuitively . If the stock is more likely to go downwards , then there 's an increased chance that the call option expires worthless , so call options must be priced lower to accommodate the relative change in expected value of the option . Puts are priced similarly , but they move inversely with respect to call option prices due to Put-Call parity . So if call option prices are falling , then put option prices are rising ( Note , however , that call prices falling does not cause put prices to rise . The inverse relationship exists because of changes in the underlying factors and how pricing works . ) So the option action signifies that the market believes the stock is headed lower ( in the given time frame ) . That does not mean it will go lower , and option traders assume risk whenever they take a particular position . Bottom line : got ta do your own homework ! Best of luck .
If I do n't need this money for decades , meaning I can ride out periodical market crashes , why would I invest in bonds instead of funds that track broad stock market indexes ? You would n't . But you can never be 100 % sure that you really wo n't need the money for decades . Also , even if you do n't need it for decades , you can never be 100 % certain that the market will not be way down at the time , decades in the future , when you do need the money . The amount of your portfolio you allocate to bonds ( relative to stocks ) can be seen as a measure of your desire to guard against that uncertainty . I do n't think it 's accurate to say that " the general consensus is that your portfolio should at least be 25 % in bonds " . For a young investor with high risk tolerance , many would recommend less than that . For instance , <URL> from T. Rowe Price suggests no more than 10 % bonds for those in their 20s or 30s . Basically you would put money into bonds rather than stocks to reduce the volatility of your portfolio . If you care only about maximizing return and do n't care about volatility , then you do n't have to invest in bonds . But you probably actually do care about volatility , even if you do n't think you do . You might not care enough to put 25 % in bonds , but you might care enough to put 10 % in bonds .
Long term capital gains are taxed at 15 % this year , so the most you stand to save is $ 150 . I would n't sell anything at a loss just to offset that , unless you planned on selling anyways . A few reasons : The Long term capital gains rate will go up to 20 % next year , so your losses will be " worth more " next year than this year . Short term capital gains rates will go up next year as well , so again , better off saving your losses for next year . You must use capital losses to offset capital gains if you have them , but if you do n't have any capital gains , you can use capital losses to offset ordinary income ( up to a limit - $ 3,000 a year IIRC ) . So , if you just bite the bullet and pay the 15 % on your gains this year , you could use your losses to offset your ( likely higher rate ) ordinary income next year . FYI , complete chart for capital gains tax rates is <URL> . I also posted another answer about capital gains to <URL> a while back that might be useful .
Good question , and increasingly common for professionals . If you 're intending to return to your starting point ( i.e. retire back in your " home " country ) then your existing retirement vehicles will be fine . However , if not , structured policies do n't transfer largely because of tax rules . Global firms have employees that shift about and sometimes have systems in place to permit their employees to move pensions with them . So a little forward planning may be required if you use an employer to smooth your emigration difficulties . Otherwise , international currency-denominated equities will make things more flexible . The US dollar does n't look too good right now and , in 30 years , may no longer be the world 's reserve currency , so you 'll probably want a currency basket to hedge that far ahead . That means buying equities on a range of different exchanges to gain access to different currencies when you sell ( or receive dividends ) . Fortunately , that is n't as difficult as it was a few years ago and numerous online investment services can permit you to trade around the world with a single account . See , for example : <URL> <URL> <URL> E * Trade , Sharebuilder , TD Ameritrade and Scottrade as options as well .
Do some math . Figure out the net ( after tax ) money you 'd have if you left it taxable , then look at the difference . In effect , you 'd pay $ X ( the tax now ) for $ Y benefit ( the tax on the full benefit not paid ) . The math works similar to you buying a small policy on your own .
An alias usually refers to a disposable or <URL> credit card number . These are also called temporary or virtual credit card numbers . Some credit card companies will allow you to generate a credit card number that links to your main account but is different from your main account number . You can usually set the number to expire after a certain amount of time or to only accept charges from a specific vendor or up to a certain amount . This allows you to make credit card purchases without as much worry about fraud , because your original credit card information is still hidden from the merchant . You may also hear about an alias on your credit report , which is simply a different name that 's also listed on your credit report . This could occur because you changed your name ( through marriage , for example ) , or someone a misspelling ended up on the report .
Why only long term investments ? What do they care if I buy and sell shares in a company in the same year ? Simple , your actually investing when you hold it for a long term . If you hold a stock for a week or a month there is very little that can happen to change the price , in a perfect market the value of a company should stay the same from yesterday to today so long as there is no news ( a perfect market can not exist ) . When you hold a stock for a long term you really are investing in the company and saying " this company will grow " . Short term investing is mostly speculation and speculation causes securities to be incorrectly valued . So when a retail investor puts money into something like Facebook for example they can easily be burned by speculation whether its to the upside or downside . If the goal is to get me to invest my money , then why not give apply capital gains tax to my savings account at my local bank ? Or a CD account ? I believe your gains on these accounts are taxed ... Not sure at what rate . If the goal is to help the overall health of business , how does it do that ? During an IPO , the business certainly raises money , but after that I 'm just buying and selling shares with other private shareholders . Why does the government give me an incentive to do this ( and then hold onto it for at least a year ) ? There are many reasons why a company cares about its market price : A companies market cap is calculated by price * shares outstanding . A market cap is basically what the market is saying your company is worth . A company can offer more shares or sell shares they currently hold in order to raise even more capital . A company can offer shares instead of cash when buying out another company . It can pay for many things with shares . Many executives and top level employees are payed with stock options , so they defiantly want to see there price higher . these are some basic reasons but there are more and they can be more complex .
end question
start question
Would depositing large cash amounts cause problems ?
Money laundering alarms would definitely be raised , way before you walking in with the cash to deposit . Every cash transaction over $ 10K will be reported by the bank ( and not only banks have to report ) , so the report will be sent when you withdraw the money , as well . But if the money is legitimately yours and you can show the sources , then you should n't be worried . There 's no law against having cash . Its just very hard to track down the cash money sources , and if someone asks you and you can not show the proofs - the problem would definitely be yours .
This sounds like an investment club . Assuming the securities being purchased can be easily valued at each point of purchase ( e.g. if they are public securities being purchased ) , then you can use a unit valuation system . See <URL> : " UVS is a time weighted performance metric " . Then calculating the rates of return for A , B , and C would be based on their respective unit holdings and purchases . You could use IRR on each set .
Sure ! Anything that affects the balance of supply and demand could cause rent prices to fall . I 'll betcha rent prices in Wilmington , Ohio collapsed when the biggest employer , DHL , <URL> . An economic depression of any sort would cause people to substitute expensive rentals for cheaper ones , putting downward pressure on rents . It would also cause people to double up or move in with family , decreasing demand for rentals . Anything that makes buying a house cheaper will actually make rents lower , too , because more people will buy houses when houses get cheaper ... those people are moving out of rentals , thus decreasing demand for rentals .
The biotechnology sector as a whole is a popular buy recommendation among some analysts these days for a few reasons . Some analysts feel that the high costs in R&amp;D , even without much profit , are a positive sign for growth because it means a company is working towards finding the next " blockbuster drug " or the next class of such drugs . There have n't been many new classes of blockbuster drugs since the development of <URL> and <URL> , and many of the new drugs that have been developed have been tweaks to existing classes of drugs . Some analysts feel that " it 's about time " for a new class of blockbuster drugs to hit the market . A new blockbuster drug means significant profits for the company that develops it ; a new class of blockbuster drugs means significant profits for the whole industry . Since about 2009 , the Food and Drug Administration has been more lenient in its approval of new drugs . This wave of new approvals has reduced R&amp;D costs for companies because they do n't need to go back to the lab or earlier phases of clinical trials and continually tweak their drugs in order to gain approval . This has also made some analysts optimistic . Genetic engineering is considered an up-and-coming field with potentially significant applications to the pharmaceutical industry . Advances in this field may increase profits for the pharm industry , but since biotech companies are often the ones producing the engineering equipment , research , etc. such advances could be a major source of revenue for the entire biotech industry . In the US and in the developed world as a whole , the elderly population is growing , and since people consume more medicine as they grow older , this could lead to higher profits for companies involved in the production of pharmaceuticals ( which includes biotech companies , of course ) in the long run . In the US , the passage of the <URL> expanded insurance coverage , which gives more people the means to afford pharmaceuticals . Also , in general , people consume more healthcare services when they have insurance ( this is called <URL> ) , so some analysts expect that the expansion of insurance coverage will only lead to more profits for the pharmaceutical industry and biotechnology firms in general . The global food crisis . As the climate changes , companies like Monsanto , which use various forms of genetic engineering to produce crop strains that can survive in increasingly hostile environments , look more and more appealing to places that need crops designed to grow in such environments . Any methods that could increase yields look increasingly popular , and biotechnology companies often market such methods . ( As a side note , I know Monsanto is a contentious example , and there are a lot of misconceptions about " genetically modified food " and the genetic engineering methods they do , so I wo n't get into a debate about that ) . In general , technology is a popular subject right now . I 've read analyst reports ( from analysts that clearly do n't follow the biotech sector ) that base their forecasts for the biotech sector on the activities of companies like Dell , Zynga , HP , LinkedIn , Facebook , etc. . Clearly , it 's problematic when an analyst sees the word " technology " and automatically assumes that the biotech sector is responsive to the same factors as social media firms , hardware manufacturers , etc. . This is n't to say that the biotech sector is completely isolated from this , but when I read a report that talks about Facebook 's IPO being bad news for companies like Gilead Sciences without mentioning upcoming FDA decisions about Gilead 's products or any biotech-specific factors , I 'm not convinced the analyst has performed due diligence . I keep using the phrase " some analysts " because I want to stress that the opinions stated above are n't universal . Although they 're popular , not everyone is so optimistic . Also , I do n't want you to see these reasons and think that I 'm making a buy recommendation , because I 'm not . I 'm not making a recommendation one way or another . I 'm happy to clarify my answer too ; I follow the biotechnology sector extensively . If you want to get a rough feel for the daily movements of the sector as a whole , a good place to start is <URL> , the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology Index Fund . The four largest holdings are Regeneron , Gilead Sciences , Amgen , and Celgene , which are all big players in the industry ( obviously ) . These are a little different from the big name pharma companies like Pfizer , Merck , Novartis , etc. but they 're still considered pharma companies . It 's also worthwhile to follow the <URL> . By the time the news is published there , it 's probably already leaked or known to people in the industry ( the biotech/pharm sectors are rife with accusations of insider trading ) , so you might not find trading opportunities , but it 's important to get familiar with the information the releases contain if you want to know more about the industry . Volatility trades are always popular trades around FDA drug a
You can buy Amazon gift cards and apply them to your account !
The top ten holdings for these funds do n't overlap by even one stock . It seems to me they are targeting an index for comparison , but making no attempt to replicate a list of holdings as would , say , a true S&amp;P index .
Almost any financial institution has the technical ability to do this ( simply called sweeps , auto sweeps , or deposit sweeps ) ; the issue you face is finding an institution that is willing to do it for you . I think you will have the most luck at your primary financial institution where you currently keep the majority of your banking relationship . You will have better luck at small-town banks and credit unions . The mega banks will likely not waver from their established policies . Deposit sweeps are common for business accounts . They are usually tied to a savings account , which is usually held within the same institution , however this is not a requirement . The sweep can send money to any US bank if you can provide the routing number and account number . The sweep will establish a peg balance , or floor balance , on the checking account . At the end of the day , any amount above the peg is swept into the savings account automatically . I doubt you will find what you 're asking for within an online banking system . You will likely have to go into a branch and speak with a personal banker . Explain to them you want to establish a sweep on your checking account and want to send the funds to another financial institution . You will have better luck asking for a peg of $ 100 , or some other small amount . They may not take your request seriously if you want to completely empty the checking account to zero .
It 's called Parkinson 's law of triviality . From <URL> : Parkinson 's law of triviality , also known as bikeshedding , bike-shed effect , and the bicycle-shed example , is [ the ] 1957 argument that organisations give disproportionate weight to trivial issues . Also : The time spent on any item of the agenda will be in inverse proportion to the sum [ of money ] involved . Admittedly , this " law " applies to organisations rather than individuals , but it appears to fit the question .
Banks worry that the large gift might be a loan that is ultimately expected to be repaid . If so , that affects the cash flow of the recipient , and makes it more difficult to make the mortgage payments to the bank . In some cases , of course , it is an informal loan : Dad advances a large $ X to son to use as a downpayent , but does not charge interest and the expectation is that the money will be returned in smaller chunks as and when the son can afford to repay Dad . In some cases , Dad truly means it as a gift , but son feels an obligation to repay the money , if not explicitly , then by paying for the first few months of Dad 's nursing home stay , etc. . So , banks like to have an explicit document such as a copy of a letter from Dad saying that this money is a gift , and some assurance that this is on the up and up . If the amount is larger than the maximum gift that can be given each year without having to file a gift tax return , then some assurance that a gift tax return will be filed is helpful . Mentioning this in the letter is good : it indicates that there are no secret handshakes or secret agreements to the effect that this is in fact a loan , with or without regular repayments .
The main disadvantage is if you buy things on your credit card ( and presumably get cash somewhere else ) , you may get reward points/miles/cash back etc. while debit card benefits may not be as generous . Depends on your card . Another disadvantage of cash back is budgeting/record keeping ; if you download transactions or look at them in Mint , you 'll see a single transaction for $ 58 on groceries instead of $ 38 on groceries plus $ 20 in cash . If you get your cash back at an ATM you will know that whole transaction is cash withdrawal .
The losses affected retail customers and smaller brokerages the most . The one-day price change in the CHF was the largest of any major currency since World War One , according to that BBC article , and <URL> . It was n't necessary for traders to be holding large short positions to sustain losses . The massive surge in volatility wiped out small investors and their losses were passed on to brokers , who became insolvent and/or out of regulatory capital compliance . The Swiss National Bank 's move was definitely not anticipated . At the height of the Euro crisis in 2011 , SNB pledged to keep the CHF pegged to the Euro at 1.20 and just last month told the ECB it would still defend it . SNB finally gave up at the prospect of <URL> to continue . It was n't necessary for lots of small customers to be short to sustain losses . People who do currency trading are rarely just short in one currency pair . The huge volatility surge , due to the CHF move , roiled forex markets in multiple currencies . When everything breaks down , losses get passed to brokers , but this is a very uncommon occurrence . ( Non-forex customers might hedge a single position if there were CHF forex exposure , but that would n't wipe them out . ) The euro plunged against the franc , <URL> as the SNB news broke .
I would create a " Rollover IRA " . These IRAs are designed to take funds from a 401k and allow you to invest them without incurring a cash out penalty nor a tax due . You will have more choices than if you leave it at your old 401k . If you cash out the 401k , you 'll have much less to invest ( $ 1500 - penalty - taxes ) vs. doing a rollover 401k where you 'll still have $ 1500 to invest . Then , once the money is inside the new Rollover IRA you can invest in whatever you please . If you want to invest in Vanguard funds , I recommend opening the Rollover IRA at Vanguard . Here is Vanguard 's information page about rollovers from 401ks : <URL> When you next change jobs and have another 401k with funds in it , you can roll it into the same Rollover IRA .
Here is a direct answer from <URL> I wo n't rewrite the answer here , but you are spot on . It is just an absence of liquidity . Edit : I hope you do n't mind me taking the answer a step further , but the high bid ask spread is one of the reasons ah trading is more difficult . If you incorrectly put in a bid order with a price $ 10 over the lowest ask , it will get filled very close to the lowest ask . If you make the same mistake in AH trading you might clear out all the lower ask prices and end up filling a substantial number at a dollar value much higher than you intended .
Yes , this is a way to avoid the pattern day trader regulation . The only downside being that your broker will have different commission rates and your capital will be split amongst several places .
There are a few reasons , particularly for businesses . The first is opportunity cost . That chunk of money they have could be used to get higher returns somewhere else . If they can borrow from a bank at low interest rates to finance their ongoing operations , they can use their cash to get a higher return somewhere else . The second is credit rating . For public companies , ratings companies give high emphasis to companies with large reserves . This strengthens their ability to pay back the loan should it become necessary . A good credit rating in turn let 's the company borrow money at lower rates . When a company can borrow money at low rates , it circles back to the first point where they can now put their reserves to better use . The third is leverage . Companies can use the cash they have built up to leverage into a larger investment . Assuming the investment works out , it will pay for the cost of borrowing over time . For instance let 's say I have $ 1 million to invest . I can pay all cash for a $ 1 million apartment building or I can leverage that into a $ 3 million building . Assuming I run it well , the tenants will pay for the cost of borrowing $ 2 million and at the end of the term I 'll be left with my $ 3 million building .
The last time I checked ( more than a year ago ) , <URL> had the best rates and they provide next day delivery . They also have international ATMs in New York City .
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
As weird as it seems , 5 years is not a long term investment . Furthermore investing is about accepting risk . Based on your criteria for the alternative to a down payment , I think your only choice is to make the larger down payment . However If however , you were willing to invest that money for the long term ( in a retirement account or an educational account for example ) then I would definitely encourage you to invest . I think the chance that a long term investment in a diversified investment account will exceed 3.25 % is pretty high . However , that is only my opinion , and I am not clairvoyant , so your let your personal tolerance to risk be your guide . In summary But again , based on the way you asked it , down payment all the way . Your time frame means you are not an investor . Therefore your only option for risk free storage of money is an FDIC insured account , which might pay a little less than 1 % for the next 5 years . A bigger down payment will have a 3.25 % return in this case . Also , make sure the following is true : Taking any match available at work via a 401K No unsecured debt ( like credit cards ) or bad debt ( high interest car loans or student loans ) A fully funded emergency fund that is 6 months of your expenses . Especially important if you own a house . Pay off any other loan ( student loan , car payments or peronal debt ) Maxing out a Roth IRA if you are eligable Maxing out a Traditional IRA Spending some of your money to have fun . In that order . # 4 and # 5 could be swapped if the interest rate on the loans is really low .
Running a fiscal deficit means a government is spending more money than it is taking in as taxes , fees , penalties , fines , etc , with the extra money that is being spent being borrowed by selling bonds to willing buyers . Interest paid to said buyers is another government expense in future years , and of course , the bonds must ultimately be redeemed and the buyers paid off . The buyers of the bonds must have some confidence that they will get the interest they have been promised as well as be paid off ultimately . As the government 's indebtedness increases , buyers are likely to demand higher interest rates as inducements to buy the bonds . And so it goes ...
If you specifically want to make IRA contributions to get a tax deduction , you 'd need a traditional IRA account . However , even then , you wo n't be able to claim a tax deduction unless your adjusted gross income is less than $ 71k <URL> Also , note that you are already reducing your taxable income by contributing to your 401k ( assuming it is not a Roth 401k ) ; you wo n't get any additional tax benefit from the IRA that you would n't get by contributing more to your 401k ( although you may have more choice of investments in the IRA , depending on what your 401k offers ) . As JoeTaxpayer notes , a Roth IRA is worth considering too , but this will not give you a tax deduction now . ( It will give you tax-free income later , when you withdraw it . )
end question
start question
How can I pay a vendor using a wire transfer from my credit card ?
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
Wire transfers Wire transfers normally run through either the <URL> system or the Clearing House Interbank Payments System <URL> . The process generally works like this : You approach a bank or other financial institution and ask to transfer money . You give the bank a certain code , either an international bank account number or one of several other standards , which informs the bank where to send the money . The bank sends a message through a system like Fedwire to the receiving bank , along with settlement instructions . This is where the process can get a bit tricky . For the wire transfer to work , the banks must have reciprocal accounts with each other , or the sending bank must send the money to a bank that does have such an account with the receiver . If the sending bank sends the money to a third-party bank , the transaction is settled between them , and the money is then sent to the receiving bank from the third-party bank . This last transaction may be a wire transfer , ACH transfer , etc. . The Federal Reserve fits into this because many banks hold accounts for this purpose with the Federal Reserve . This allows them to use the Fed as the third-party bank referred to above . Interestingly enough , this is one of the significant ways in which the Fed makes a profit , because it , along with every other bank and routing agent in the process , collects a miniscule fee on this process . You 'll often find sources that state that Fedwire is only for transferring large transactions ; while this is technically correct , it 's important to understand that financial institutions do n't settle every wire transfer or payment immediately . Although the orders are put in immediately , the financial institutions settle their transactions in bulk at the end of the business day , and even then they normally only settle the difference . So , if Chase owes Bank of America $ 1M , and Bank of America owes Chase $ 750K , they do n't send these as two transactions ; Chase simply credits BAC $ 250K . ACH transfers You did n't specifically ask about <URL> transfers , which as littleadv pointed out , are different from wire transfers , but since ACH transfers can often form a part of the whole process , I 'll explain that process too . ACH is a payment processing system that works through the Federal Reserve system , among others . The Federal Reserve ( through the Fedline and FedACH systems ) is by far the largest payment processor . The physical cash itself is n't transferred ; in simple terms , the money is transferred through the ACH system between the accounts each bank maintains at the Federal Reserve . Here is a simple example of how the process works ( I 'm summarizing the example from Wikipedia ) . Let 's say that Bob has an account with Chase and wants to get his paycheck from his employer , Stack Exchange , directly deposited into this account . Assume that Stack Exchange uses Bank of America as their bank . Bob , the receiver , fills out a direct deposit authorization form and gives it to his employer , called the originator . Once the originator has the authorization , they create an entry with an <URL> , which acts as a middleman between a payment processor ( like the Federal Reserve ) and the originator . The ODFI ensures that the transaction complies with the relevant regulations . In this example , Bank of America is the ODFI . Bank of America ( the ODFI ) converts the transaction request into an ACH entry and submits it , through an ACH operator , to the Receiving Depository Financial Institution ( RDFI ) , which in this case is Chase bank . Chase credits ( deposits ) the paycheck in Bob 's account . The Federal Reserve fits into all of this in several ways . Through systems like Fedline and FedACH , the Fed acts as an ACH operator , and the banks themselves also maintain accounts at the Federal Reserve , so it 's the institution that actually performs the settling of accounts between banks .
When I have asked for " cash back " at the register it has been treated as part of the purchase , and not as a cash advance . The monthly credit card bill always notes that by cash advance balance is always zero . I have noticed that one of the cards ( Discover ) does know about the cash back because the description on the website for the transaction does mention the amount of cash back I received . But still the cash advance balance is zero . The amount you can receive in cash back is based on the limits set by the store and the card company .
I ca n't vouch for the UK , but in the US most basic cards have either no fee or a fairly small yearly fee ( about US$ 15 , if you do n't have a problematic credit record ) . Shop around .
Can you pull a credit report on your adult child , spouse - or even any other adult for that matter ? If you have access to things like national ID ( Social Security number ) , can answer security questions related to addresses they have previously lived and outstanding major debts they may have ( house loans , car loans , etc ) , then sure you physically can . Now , is it legal to do so ? <URL> ( a credit bureau ) obtaining someone 's credit report without their permission is considered identity theft and fraud , even if you do not use it for some nefarious purpose . Even if you are a parent , it is a violation of federal and state laws and is punishable by fines and imprisonment . Can they find out ? Absolutely ! <URL> ( according to Visa ) , or in some other way tripping a security alert ( such as if the person has intentionally put a " freeze " on their account and opted-in to some identity theft protection scheme , <URL> ) , will cause your attempt to fail and often require calling the company directly to provide additional verification information ( which of course you may not have and is less predictable ) . Depending on the <URL> , a monitoring service might even send an email or letter to a person directly if such an attempt is made ( but this does vary by service and bureau ) . Even if you do it correctly , all requests are logged and often are noted on credit reports regarding past inquiries - so if in the future they run their credit report they may see the inquiry they will know they did n't request ( that 's weird , this is the first time I 've ever checked my credit ... ) . If the person is using a mailing address you do n't know about , like a PO Box or a friend 's house to get mail ( so you do n't know about their card/statements/loans ) , then you will almost certainly lock the account and a fraud alert will be sent in a way you ca n't intercept . That 's going to be an unpleasant set of conversations ! The alternative : <URL> You can request it so you can go over the importance of good credit with them , or you can tell them outright you are concerned that they may be getting themselves into debt . You can bribe them with getting them a for-fee credit score and analysis at your expense , or extort them by demanding that if they do n't like it they can live somewhere else ... how you play it is up to you . But horror stories are easily avoided , and you can use the opportunity to actually get a credit report and sit down and go over it together . Do they know what a report is and what 's on it ? Most adults twice their age sure do n't ! Parenting tip bonus : if you are open and honest and explain why you 'd like to get a credit report and sit down with them to discuss it and they freak out - bingo , you 've got an answer that something is wrong and it did n't cost you a dime and you did n't break the law . Now , to be completely clear , if they do n't respond well to the credit report that is n't evidence of some kind of guilt or impropriety ( a thanks to the comments for pointing out this potential misinterpretation ) . However , what it does indicate is your relationship may be out of whack - imbalanced or unhealthy in some way . You could be in a co-dependent situation where you are covering for them so they do n't have to be responsible or independent ( bad for both of you ) , or they may be hiding from reality , or you may have have developed serious trust and boundary issues that need to be addressed , or any of dozens of other possibilities ! All of these are possible - they might be really screwing up , or maybe you are , or maybe you both are , or maybe it 's all ok and you can relax . I hope this makes clear the importance of figuring out what reality is and dealing with that , which is the foundation of personal financial health and healthy personal relationships , too !
Thanks for joining , and thanks for your question ! From what I can tell , yes , the site you originally linked to ( which I removed ) appears to be in the United States and therefore likely intended for U.S. cardholders only . Your profile indicates you are in the U.K. Most banks and credit card companies do maintain separate systems per country , for legal reasons . Anyway , for your own security I suggest you contact your card issuer 's support telephone number and request the correct U.K. cardholder web site address from them directly . In general , you do n't want to be guessing or searching for the web site address for your credit card company or bank 's online self-service application . There are often " impostor " web sites out there that just want your credit card number ! Instead , you should obtain the web site addresses for your financial services from trusted sources only ; i.e. direct from your bank or card issuer , such as on your printed statement , or through their help line , or linked-to from their known-good home page . Finally , I do believe that your credit card number and account number are one and the same thing .
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
Yes , you can pay off your credit card as early as you like , even before the closing date . If you do this , you 'll see this payment on your next statement , and the amount due will be adjusted accordingly . And as long as you pay the entire statement balance by the statement due date , you wo n't be charged any interest . I do n't know anything about your particular bank , but in general , yes , you can use online bill pay services to pay your credit card . Your credit card company probably also has a mechanism on their website for paying your bill electronically .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
I 've been doing this for years , and have n't had a problem ( yet ) . Since I pay of the entire balance every month , this ensures that I never have to pay interest because I forgot to send in a payment . As MoneyCone said , it does require discipline on your part to check your statement each month , prior to the autopay . Remember , that even with autopay , you can override it for particular statements . So if there is a fraudulent charge , you can dispute it with the credit card company , and manually pay the card whatever amount you want . The one thing I do worry about is the credit card making an error and withdrawing more than they should . This is why I have the autopay tied to my local credit union account , which I only keep enough to pay the credit card bills and the occasional paper check , limiting the damage . Most of my money are in an ING account , where I use online billpay to take care of the rest of my expenses .
The Card Issuer does the Credit History checking . The card can be issued by Bank or some other financial institution . The Central Bank/Regulators in each countries set-up an Credit Bureau that acts as a central store of all the Credit history of an individual with any/every financial institution . It is mandetory for all Financial institutions to report certain kind of transactions like Credit Card Spends/Defaults , Mortage Due , Auto Loan and some other kind of transactions depending on the country regulations . The data that these Financial institutions need to submit on a regular basis to Credit Bureau includes the amount of loan , the repayments , defaults , etc. . Any Financial institution that needs to give a card or loan can query this information to find out Credit History . Normally not all Financial institutions directly connect to Credit Bureau , but there are some Reproting companies that connect to Credit Bureau and provide the relevant information to the requested financial institution . The Credit Bureau or the Reporting companies is not a guarantor . Its only an information provider . The Financial Institution must based on the information take action as appropriate , ie give loan / card or refuse or charge higer rate of interest or give lower limits etc. . Initially quite a few Card Companies issued cards directly . Even today Amex issues and services its own card . Master &amp; Visa on the other hand always use tie-up . The advantages with the tie-up being that one get to service a large area and georgaphies where other already have a significant presence . For example Setting up of the Swipe Machines at Merchant establishment &amp; servicing it is expensive &amp; timeconsuming . Plus Marchant may not be comfortable dealing with one more entity . Here Master &amp; Visa leave it to individual Bank to accquire the Merchant . Same is the case with accquiring Customers . Its easy for a Bank to sell me a credit card if I hold an account , they already have the marketing means for doing it . The results are very clear with the number of cards issued by Master &amp; Visa far exceeding those of Amex . In many countires Merchants refuse accepting Amex because they do n't have a good network and dont get paid easily . The co-branded card is additional flavour to encourage customers spend on a particular type of card . Every time a card is swpied say for 100 % , the merchant gets only 97.5 / - Typically 1.5 goes to the Issuing Bank [ as they are out of funds for 30-40 days of credit period ] . 0.5 goes to the merchant 's bank who installed the swipe machine and paid the merchant . 0.5 goes to Master/Visa [ Card Company ] . Take an example of Delta Airlines where tickets are booked by a person using Visa Issued by Bank of America . Bank of America also has put swipe machine in Delta Airlines . In this case the merchant Bank and the Issuer bank is same and hence they would get 1.5 +0.5 , and Visa would get 0.5 . In order to leverage this , Delta would come out with a co-branded card with Bank of America for Visa . Of the 2 % earned by Bank of America , some would be passed to the customer . The customer if he is a frequrent flier would take this card as he gets discounts , airline is happy because its got a dedicated customer , the bank is happy because by co-branding its got dedicated customer of delta booking tickets using its card , the volume increase makes up for the money &amp; discounting . Same principal applies to other co-branded cards . Hope this is clear .
The bank will know best . You could look for their documents on the website that discuss funds availability . The size of the check could also make a difference . One way to see if you can use the money is to look online at your balance . My credit union reports two numbers for each account : Balance and available balance . The difference covers the deposits that are in limbo , and the checks/withdraws that are in in progress . There does not seem to be a relationship between credit/debt status with the debit card and the speed of the withdrawal . I have seen it take seconds , and I have seen it take days . It depends on the vendor . regarding the use of a check . If you were mailing the check you would probably be OK , because of the time it would take them to receive it and process it . But handing the check to the store might not be any different than using a debit card . Many stores are now scanning the check into the system , then handing you back the paper check . that can be deducted within minutes of handing them the check . While it seems that the cashiers check is as good as cash , there have been scams using cashiers checks . Your bank may not treat it as good until there has been time for the other bank to verify it .
Several things to do : Change your bank . $ 2 for a check ? Why ?? When shopping for a new bank : ask for a free checking account . College students can get free checking in almost any bank . At least the first box of checks will be free , which will give you enough checks for the next several years ( I 'm still not half done with the box I got from WaMu 5 years ago ) . Check out your neighborhood credit union . Most of them have free checking and free checks for students as well . If still no luck - check online check printing services , they 'll send you a box for less than $ 25 , that 's for sure . <URL> for example ( 1 box - $ 7 ) . Also , you can use banks ' bill-pay service for any check you write , if you know the address of the person , the amount and the sum a couple of days ahead of time . That should cover rent , and probably most of your other checks .
According to the privacy policies of at least some of the banks and financial institutions , they reserve the right to keep your information even after you have ceased all relationship with them . You can forbid them from sharing it , but not from keeping it . Unfortunately , there 's no law to protect you in such case .
First , forget about your credit rating . That will come back once you 're out of default and back on your feet . Keep in mind that the write-off is considered taxable income , so you 'll be owing the IRS and your State ( if its an income tax state ) money on that . I do n't think that you can ignore the second question . If you 're going to end up robbing Peter to pay Paul , I do n't see the point of trading an unsecured , dischargeable debt for another debt and a non-dischargeable IRS obligation . If you ca n't make payments on $ 17k , you ca n't make payments on $ 12k either . Note that when the IRS does n't get paid , they seize assets from your accounts and garnish your wages , and charge hefty fees for the privilege . If I were in your situation and had the ability to make payments , I would try to get written agreements from the unsecured creditors to do the following : Take you out of default status and get rid of penalty interest . ( ie . start paying 15 % instead of the 30 % or more that you are paying now ) Commit to making a specific payment . Freeze your credit limit to prevent the accrual of new fees . You have a very short window to make this deal with BoA . If they are ready to cut you a 30 % deal , the next step will be selling it to collections . If I were unable to get those types of settlements or make the payments , I 'd immediately start looking into bankruptcy and getting on with my life . A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stop the accrual of interest and penalties , stop the collection calls and leave you with $ 0 debt in 36 months . If you go this route , try to keep one credit line that you 've had for a few years ( like a store credit card ) open ... this will make things easier later on .
<URL> That 's the official site for getting your free yearly credit report ( one free per year from each of the 3 reporting bureaus ) .
I am wondering weather it is worth it ( how taxation works in this scenario ect . ) or not and legally possible to do so ? Whether it is worth it or not is up to you . There 's nothing illegal in this , unless of course there 's a legal issue in the foreign country . The US does n't care . Re taxes - it is a bit trickier . If your lender does not provide you with form 1098 , you 'll have to report the lender 's name , address and SSN/ITIN on your tax return in order to claim a deduction . The IRS will then expect the lender to report that interest as income . This is US-sourced income and is taxed in the US despite the fact that the lender is non-resident . See <URL> for more info . If the lender does n't report the income and does n't pay the taxes - your deduction may be denied as well for double-dipping . It is easier if this is an investment . Then the deduction is not going to Schedule A , but rather as an expense to Schedule E . The IRS may still require matching , but you wo n't need to report the SSN/ITIN - just have the expense properly documented . Obviously , the best when it comes to legal issues , is to talk to an attorney licensed in the State in question . Similarly with tax questions - you should talk to a EA/CPA licensed in that State . I 'm neither .
Any institution that issues checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the passive side . Any institution that clears checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the originating side . Not any institution that can be - in fact is . Your credit union does n't provide this service because they do n't want to . It costs them money to implement and support it , but they do n't see the required benefit to justify it . They can . My credit union does that .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
end question
start question
Why is early exercise generally not recommended for an in-the-money option ?
<URL> states : While early exercise is generally not advisable , because the time value inherent in the option premium is lost upon doing so , there are certain circumstances under which early exercise may be advantageous . For example , an investor may choose to exercise a call option that is deeply in-the-money ( such an option will have negligible time value ) just before the ex-dividend date of the underlying stock . This will enable the investor to capture the dividend paid by the underlying stock , which should more than offset the marginal time value lost due to early exercise . So the question is how well do you see the time value factor here ?
A suitable mix of index funds IS a great option if you do n't want to spend a lot of time and effort micromanaging your money . If you find amusement in pushing numbers around , you may be able to do better . Notice : MAY . If you have multiple millions , you can hire someone of that sort to push the numbers around for you . They may do better for you . Notice : MAY . And remember that part of your additional gains have to go to pay them , which means they have to do better just to be worth having on staff in the first place . If you have more than that , there are some options available which smaller investors really ca n't get involved in . As one example : If you have enough money that you can lose $ 100K without especially noticing , you can get involved in venture capital and the like which require a large commitment AND are higher-risk but can yield higher returns . Anyone who 's dismissing index funds as " only for beginners " is being foolish . But recommending them to beginners in particular is a good thing since they let you get into the market with fairly predictable risk/benefits without needing a massive investment in education and time .
It is n't illegal to hold money in overseas accounts . It is illegal if you do n't report it . If the money is outside the US , it is hard for IRS to know about it . That 's the reason people who have money to hide take their chances with overseas accounts . Hope this simple explanation helps .
They generally approve for basic options trading ( buying calls ) based on overall experience and will grant more rights as you build experience . I 'd question how you have " more than the average investor 's knowledge " about options if you 've never traded them before , but that really does n't matter . They 're trying to protect you from yourself and satisfy legal requirements to that effect . If you want access , just lie and say you 've been trading for a decade , hundreds of times a year . They ca n't verify it and wo n't ask for proof . Source : I did this
Is there an option to dispute this record online since I have never lived in Ohio state ? Start with getting a US-licensed CPA/EA in India , or a CPA/EA working in Ohio , contacting them on your behalf and getting more details . Why did they put the lien ? They probably think you earned money in the State/while resident of the State , and did n't pay taxes . Why would they think that ? Could there be any chance that this was put by mistake ? I still find it hard to believe that the state authorities took my credit card address as a proof of residence . Obviously , unless you did n't tell us something in your question , this is some kind of mistake . But mistake can be not theirs - someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to steal your identity . Someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to file a fraudulent tax return and got refunds they were not supposed to get If there is no option to dispute , what is the worst that can happen if I do n't pay it and enter the US in 2020 ? If you do n't do anything , someone else 's mistake will become your mistake . Your credit will be ruined , the statute of limitations to dispute the assessment will have passed and the State will attempt to collect on you . The statute of limitations on collections depends on the State laws , but it is much longer than the statute of limitations on assessments , so while you may not be able to argue you do n't owe the dept by 2020 - the State will probably be able to garnish your wages and freeze your bank accounts . Deal with this , ASAP .
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
We ca n't give you specific advice without a ton more details , and even then the " right " answer depends on your own preferences . You need to determine your own goals . I can make a couple of observations you might think about , though . Frequently , career progress and lifetime wealth are completely compatible goals , but they may be incompatible with current income . That is , the best way to maximize your wealth is often to take a career-advancing job that may not pay highly , work it for a few years , then change jobs and repeat . Each time you change , make sure you are landing at a higher position than your last . If you are successful you will end up making a lot of money and truly advancing your career . What you give up is stability and comfort . Normally I 'd say if you are experiencing financial distress , it 's time to take a high paying job for at least a while while you get your feet under you . However , since you mention you are a student , I infer that you are young and may be in a position to borrow or just live a very poor life while you get established . These are both normal for that time of life . Just because a job does n't involve working on a team does n't mean it wo n't advance your career . Advancing your career frequently means having lots of lines of relevant work on your resume . You should keep each job for at least a few years ( maybe 3 ) so you do n't look like a quitter , but in terms of marketability , lots of different kinds of experiences are good , including working alone . You have n't mentioned your alternative jobs . If the question is whether to take a job that 's not so great or to be unemployed , the not-so-great job is pretty much always better . You wo n't enhance your career at all by not working . In terms of worrying , I 'd say having a successful and ambitious life will always involve worry . You need to channel that energy to something positive . Make a plan of what you want to do with your life , when you will pay off your debts , and what your ultimate career goal is . Make a budget and figure out how you will get by . Write it down . This will help turn unhelpful stress into helpful action . Good luck .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
The answer to your specific question is that the odds of that option being assigned ( meaning the other guy exercises ) are close to zero . Looking at early exercise risk for call options more broadly : An American-style * option should almost never be exercised early , especially if the underlying stock does n't pay a dividend . There are a lot of ways to explain why this is , but below are the easiest ones , both of which approach the problem from the perspective of the " other guy " who owns the options , since they 're the one deciding whether to exercise or not . For simplicity , the initial explanations assume the stock has no dividend . [ * " American-style " simply means that the option can be exercised prior to the expiration date ; " European-style " options can only be exercised at expiration . All standard , listed options on individual stocks are American-Style ] If you 're not planning to keep the stock you buy when you exercise a call option , but instead intend to sell the stock right away , you 're almost always better off just selling the call option . A call option 's value is made up of two components . The intrinsic value is simply the amount by which the stock 's current price is higher than the call strike - it 's the current discount to the stock 's price that you get if you exercise the call , thereby purchasing the stock at the strike price . So , if the intrinsic value were the total value of the option , the price you could get for selling the call would be the same as what you 'd make by exercising the right to buy at the strike price , and then selling the stock at its current value . But that 's the least that the call should be worth , since the call 's value is that amount plus the time value . Time value is far more complex to calculate , but for this discussion , it 's enough to know this : it ca n't ever be negative . So , at best , exercising a call early and then selling the stock means throwing away the time value of the option , so in those rare cases where time value is zero , it should be a wash to exercise and sell , and in all other cases , you 'd be worse off , since you 'd only capture the intrinsic difference between the stock 's price and the strike price . If you are planning to keep the stock after you exercise , you could still apply the same argument : Assuming there is some time value , you 'd be better off selling the call and then buying the stock at its current price than you would by exercising . ( You 'd have net saved the amount of the time value ) . But here 's a simpler way to look at it in this case : Even if you plan to keep the stock long term , exercising early is effectively locking in the worst possible price you could have to pay to buy it . So , in the Citi example , the call owner is guaranteed the right to buy the stock at $ 5 for two years . If the stock goes to $ 100 , he or she can still buy it at $ 5 , so he ca n't possibly pay more than $ 5 until the option expires . But if the stock should drop lower , say to $ 4 , or $ 3 , he can buy it at that price rather than $ 5 . So , by exercising the option , the call owner is essentially trading the ability to buy the stock for $ 5 or lower for the ability to buy it at $ 5 . So , for underlying stocks with no dividend , it is generally considered irrational to exercise an option early , assuming you like money . There are a couple of key exceptions , the latter of which is more relevant : Irrational exercise is possible , but very , very rare . It 's always possible that someone who hates money or math could exercise the option , but this is extremely unlikely - money will flow quickly into irrational markets and generally ensure that almost all positions with easily calculated values are owned by entities that can calculate them . Poor option liquidity relative to that of the stock can complicate matters . If the options market is so illiquid that you have to sell your call for less than the intrinsic value after you account for the bid-ask spread , it could be slightly less cost-effective to sell an option with no time value than to exercise and sell the stock . However , this is pretty rare , since it requires all of the following : A ) the option has little or no time value , B ) the options are very illiquid , and C ) the stock is decently liquid . And B ) and C ) are generally not likely to both be true , as the stock 's liquidity will usually inform the option 's . The time value is close to zero and a dividend is being paid . Generally speaking , the only time a rational actor will exercise a call option early is when a dividend is about to be paid , and the value of that dividend is higher than the call option 's current time value . Without getting into complex option pricing , this gets the crux : the owner of a call option does not capture the value of a dividend payout , so in those cases where an option is so deep-in-the money and/or close enough to expiration that the time value is below the dividend about to be paid , it makes sense to exercise just before th
The difference is that the GI Bill is a VA program , and by statute , veteran 's benefits are not taxed . The SLR is an army program , so it 's treated like compensation .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
No . Current account is not a requirement . You can use savings account . You would need to pay taxes on interest . Savings account have limitation on number of withdrawal in a quarter , hence most sole proprietorship have current account .
In the US there 's no significant difference between what a business can deduct and what an individual can deduct . However , you can only deduct what is an expense to produce income . Businesses are allowed to write off salaries , but individuals ca n't write off what they pay their gardener or maid ( at least in the US ) If you 're a sole proprietor in the business of managing properties - you can definitely deduct payments to gardeners or maids . Business paying for a gardener on a private property not related to producing the income ( like CEO 's daughter 's house ) can not deduct that expense for tax purposes ( although it is still recorded in the business accounting books as an expense - with no tax benefit ) . Businesses are allowed to deduct utility expenses as overhead , individuals can not Same thing exactly . I can deduct utility expenses for my rental property , but not for my primary residence . Food , shelter , clothing and medical care are fundamental human needs , but we still pay for them with after-tax money , and pay additional sales tax . Only interest ( and not principal ) on a mortgage is deductible in the US , which is great for people who take out mortgages ( and helps banks get more business , I 'm sure ) , but you 're out of luck if you pay cash for your house , or are renting . Sales taxes are deductible . You can deduct sales taxes you paid during the year if you itemize your deduction . You can chose - you either deduct the sales taxes or the State income taxes , whatever is more beneficial for you . BTW in many states food and medicine are exempt from sales tax . Medical expenses are deductible if they 're significant compared to your total income . You can deduct medical expenses in excess of 10 % of your AGI . With the ACA kicking in - I do n't see how would people even get to that . If your AGI is low you get subsidies for insurance , and the insurance keeps your expenses capped . For self-employed and employed , insurance premiums are pre-tax ( i.e. : not even added to your AGI ) . Principle for mortgage is not deductible because it is not an expense - it is equity . You own an asset , do n't you ? You do get the standard deduction , even if your itemized ( real ) deductions are less - business do n't get that . You also get an exemption amount ( for your basic living needs ) , which businesses do n't get . You can argue about the amounts - but it is there . In some States ( like California ) renters get tax breaks for renting , depending on the AGI . CA renters credit is phasing out at AGI of about $ 60K , which is pretty high .
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in § 220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " . § 220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
Turns out Social Security and disability insurance are two different things but if you take disability insurance before retirement age when you get to full retirement age the disability money becomes the social security money . <URL> If you are receiving Social Security disability benefits when you reach full retirement age , your disability benefits automatically convert to retirement benefits , but the amount remains the same .
Indians appear to have a cultural preference for gold , but it 's not really a reasonable retirement plan all by itself . Retirement should optimally be a set of diversified investments across as many asset classes as is possible and gold has no diversification whatsoever . Nor does it necessarily have a good expected return . And it tends to be highly volitile . And there is a rather large cost to transacting ( the selling price and buying price differ by a relatively large amount ) . Gold is a fine addition to your retirement savings , but it should n't be the whole thing or anywhere near it . The government saving schemes you mention seem to just barely keep up with inflation or perhaps be below current Indian inflation . They are kind of like a savings account but you are locked in to an interest rate . This means you will benefit if inflation or interest rates fall after your purchase but be harmed if they subsequently rise . Probably a good thing to add to a portfolio , but it should n't be the whole thing . Alternatively , just use a real savings account . A defined benefit pension plan like the one you mentioned will take on more profitable investments and hopefully be able to meet its obligations to you . If it does , this is likely a reasonable option . In that case your main worry would be inflation , since the benefits are defined in terms of nominal currency . You should also worry about the solvency of the organization . Many pensions in the US ( especially government pensions ) are underfunded and some people will almost certainly not get their full payments . Private pensions in the US are much better but not perfect . Not sure how responsible pension managers in India are on average . I notice you did n't mention any options that invest directly in risky assets , like indian stocks or international stocks . Like a mutual fund , for example . That is where a large portion of most people 's investment should probably be and it will be largely unaffected by inflation , unlike the pension and government saving schemes you mention . You can also think out of the box . Maybe invest in some real estate , for example . At the end of the day , your best bet is to invest in lots of different things . You do n't know what kind of risks the future holds , so by having investments in lots of things you minimize your worst case scenario .
It depends on how big the inheritance was . <URL> you are in the clear unless the total assets she inherits exceed $ 1 Million . Edit - In 2013 , the amount one can leave and have no federal estate tax issue is $ 5.25 M. It 's the deceased 's estate that pays the tax , not the beneficiary . So even if this were above the number , it 's received post-tax . The article linked above is current .
Taxes are a tool for achieving social policy goals . While Americans consider " Socialism " to be a curse , the US is in fact quite socialistic . Mostly towards corporations , but sometimes even the normal people , not only the " Corporation are people , my friend " ( M. Romney ) get some discounts . The tax deduction on mortgage interest comes as a tool to encourage Americans to own their homes . It is important , socially , for people to own their home to be independent , and in general contributes to the stability of the society . As anything , when taken to the extreme , it in fact achieves exactly the opposite , as we 've seen in 2008 , but when balanced - works well . Capital gain is taxed in the US , because it is income . Generally , any income is taxed . However , gain sourced from the sale of primary residence is excluded , up to a certain ( quite large ) amount from this tax ( if lived in the residence long enough - 3 of the last 5 years prior to sale ) . This , again , to encourage Americans to upgrade their houses and make it easier for Americans to relocate when needed ( sell one house and buy another without losing cash on taxes ) . As to " asset producing income " - that is true in the US as well . You can not deduct your personal expenses , in general . Mortgage interest on primary residence is a notable exception , because it serves a social cause . Similarly , medical expenses are allowed as a deduction , if they 're above certain limit , and many other things ( for example - if a US person totals his car , and insurance does n't cover the loss - it is tax deductible , above certain limit , the higher the income - the higher the limit ) . These are purely social policy breaks . Socialism , something Americans like to have , and love to hate . Many " anti-socialists " in the US are in fact taking advantage of these specific tax breaks the most , because for rich folks these are limited or non-existent ( mortgage interest limited up to 1 million , medical expenses are allowed only above certain percentage of income , etc ) .
We use the PC financial credit card . We switched to PC banking about 8 years ago and have been extremely happy with them . You get points for using their banking services and if you use their credit card you earn points . You can use the points earned for free groceries or purchasing anything at No Frills , Independant and Loblawas Superstores . With the points we 've earned over the years through just our regular banking , we 've purchased a 6 piece patio set , patio swing , tons of free groceries and currently have $ 500 worth of points that we 're using to purchase food and gifts for the Christmas season . You can find out the particulars on their points program throught their webiste at www.pcfinancial.ca
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
end question
start question
What is the cost of " free " trades ?
In the case of Wells Fargo , I believe that free trading is linked to your overall banking relationship with the firm . So if you have a checking account with a balance of $ X , or a total relationship with the bank ( " relationship " is usually defined as loan balances + deposit balances ) over a certain amount , they give you a plum like free stock trades . The theory behind this approach is that banks want to be a one-stop shop for you . The idea is that they can market the banks products to you over a period of years ( lowering customer acquisition cost ) and offer you a level of convenience that allows them to charge a premium for services . For example , many people will pay a rate or fee premium on a mortgage or car loan so that they can do all of their business in one place . In other cases , free trading is linked to marketing campaigns by funds . Charles Schwab started this with the " no transaction fee " mutual fund store many years ago -- transaction fees are actually paid for by the mutual funds who pay for placement in the program . " Free ETF trade " programs are similar .
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
The best bank with least amount of gotchas is Alliant Credit Union . I did a lot of research and finally decided on this bank . I did a comparative study between ING , Ally and Alliant and found Alliant to be superior than the the other two . More about my study : <URL> If you do find a better bank than this , please update this post , I 'd definitely like to know ! Disclaimer : I have no relationship with either of the three banks .
Banks often offer cash to people who open savings accounts in order to drive new business . Their gain is pretty much as you think , to grow their asset base . A survey released in 2008 by UK-based Age Concern declared that only 16 % of the British population have ever switched their banks ' while 45 % of marriages now end in divorce . Yip , till death do most part . In the US , similar analysis is pointing to a decline in people moving banks from the typical rate of 15 % annually . If people are <URL> then how much more difficult for online brokers to get customers to switch ? TD Ameritrade is offering you 30 days commission-free and some cash ( 0.2 % - 0.4 % depending on the funds you invest ) . Most people - especially those who use the opportunity to buy and hold - wo n't make much money for them , but it only takes a few more aggressive traders for them to gain overall . For financial institutions the question is straightforward : how much must they pay you to overcome your switching cost of changing institutions ? If that number is sufficiently smaller than what they feel they can make in profits on having your business then they will pay . EDIT TO ELABORATE : The mechanism by which any financial institution makes money by offering cash to customers is essentially one of the " law of large numbers " . If all you did is transfer in , say , $ 100,000 , buy an ETF within the 30-day window ( or any of the ongoing commission-free ones ) and hold , then sell after a few years , they will probably lose money on you . I imagine they expect that on a large number of people taking advantage of this offer . Credit card companies are no different . More than half of people pay their monthly credit balance without incurring any interest charges . They get 30 days of credit for free . Everyone else makes the company a fortune . TD Ameritrade 's fees are quite comprehensive outside of this special offer . Besides <URL> , their <URL> include subscription fees , administration fees , transaction fees , a few extra-special value-added services and , then , when you wish to cash out and realise your returns , an outbound transfer fee . However , you 're a captured market . Since most people wo n't change their online brokers any more often than they 'd change their bank , TD Ameritrade will be looking to offer you all sorts of new services and take commission on all of it . At most they spend $ 500 - $ 600 to get you as a customer , or , to get you to transfer a lot more cash into their funds . And they get to keep you for how long ? Ten years , maybe more ? You think they might be able to sell you a few big-ticket items in the interim ? Maybe interest you in some subscription service ? This is n't grocery shopping . They can afford to think long-term .
Extended for five years . I wrote an article <URL> , in which I highlight the 2013 changes agreed to in Washington New Years evening . It remains at $ 1000 per child , but same as in prior years , phases out based on income . The details of <URL> , runs a full 157 pages . As a PDF , it 's friendly to searching on specific words to find what you seek .
My insurance company ended up just accepting my suggestion that it was comparable to the new model by the same brand . I bought that model and sent them the receipt , and they 're sending me a reimbursement . The version of the bike that was available ended up being more like $ 400 , and they paid the full price ( minus my deductible ) . The price of a new bike has increased more than inflation , and it seems at least by this company 's definition , replacement cost factors that in .
Yes , the penalty is the tax you pay on it again when you withdraw the money . The withdrawal of the excess contribution is taxed as your wages ( but no penalty ) . Excess contribution can not be added to the basis or considered " after-tax " ( hence the double taxation ) . Note that allowing you to keep the excess contribution in the plan may lead to disqualifying the plan , so it is likely that the plan administrator will force you to remove the excess contribution if they become aware of it . Otherwise you may end up forcing early 401 ( k ) withdrawal on all of your co-workers . More on <URL> . And <URL> .
Real estate professionals are able to apply any losses ( in most cases due to depreciation ) to their entire federal tax obligations , personal or professional . If you own an investment property , but are not working in real estate , your investment 's losses can be applied to your tax obligations for that property only , not your overall tax liability .
There is one way this could work , and it only does because of the unusual way Congress has modified some aspects of tax law on an annual basis . A few years back the maximum amount that an employer could give you , or that you could contribute tax free was set a X per month for transit . In a way to spur commuting Congress raised it to X+Y , but did so temporarily . The next year it dropped back to X . Many people changed their monthly contribution back to X . In late December Congress retroactively said : Lets pretend the previous temporary increase was extended for a year . This meant that some post-tax contributions in the previous 12 months could be thought of as pre-tax contributions Because I was a little slow on the ending of the temporary increase , for a month Y extra was withheld post-tax . So I was sent a check for the taxes that were over-withheld when congress retroactively extended the higher amount . I no longer use the transit benefit but I understand congress did it again in late 2014 . So contributing the amount you need to commute , even if part of it is post-tax , may allow you to tax advantage of congresses inability to set tax guidance in advance .
You can open a <URL> , here 's an example . You can deposit up to 50K ( including the personal cap and the profit sharing/matching portion ) .
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
I am going to try to take your questions one at a time : Why there is an investment min This is because the mutual fund company has decided to set this level , although it varies from fund to fund and fund company to fund company . It is usually dictated by the style of the investment and the fund company . Advantages of higher minimums include less record-keeping with small accounts and ensuring that you have " more serious " investors . Plus , mutual funds end up using your money to buy underlying investments , so lots of little amounts are less useful to them , likely . the buying cost is a lot more expensive than buying stocks ? Again , depends on the company and its objectives . I suppose you are less likely to be buying and selling mutual funds more often ( and they like it this way ) , so a larger fee cuts down on day trading and also helps the company make money . There are plenty of fund companies that offer their funds commission-free , however ( such as Vanguard ) . Is the investment min only for the initial buying or do I have to buy at least 10k each time when I want to add more value to it ? A mutual fund company will likely have both a minimum initial investment and a minimum additional investment , although the latter is likely much smaller . So , for example , you may have a $ 10k initial minimum , then a $ 500 minimum additional investment . Do I have to pay the same commission fee every time when I buy more of the same mutual fund ? Likely , yes . There may be exceptions on things like reinvested dividends , but check the details of the mutual fund account . These should be obviously laid out in a fees table . Why is the investment min and commission fees are waived in my 401k account ? This is due to an agreement that your employer has with the provider . Minimums are likely waived since there are a bunch of people at this employer all investing in the same funds . Commissions are waived as a part of the cost of providing the 401k to you .
The textbook answer would be " assets-liabilities + present discounted value of all future profit " . A&amp;L is usually simple ( if a company has an extra $ 1m in cash , it 's worth $ 1m more ; if it has an extra $ 1m in debt , it 's worth $ 1m less ) . If a company with ~ 0 assets and $ 50k in profit has a $ 1m valuation , then that implies that whoever makes that valuation ( wants to buy at that price ) really believes one of two things - either the future profit will be significantly larger than $ 50k ( say , it 's rapidly growing ) ; or the true worth of assets is much more - say , there 's some IP/code/patents / people that have low book value but some other company would pay $ 1m just to get that . The point is that valuation is subjective since the key numbers in the calculations are not perfectly known by anyone who does n't have a time machine , you can make estimates but the knowledge to make the estimates varies ( some buyers/sellers have extra information ) , and they can be influenced by those buyers/sellers ; e.g. for strategic acquisitions the value of company is significantly changed simply because someone claims they want to acquire it . And , $ 1m valuation for a company with $ 500m in profits is n't appropriate - it 's appropriate only if the profits are expected to drop to zero within a couple years ; a stagnant but stable company with $ 500m profits would be worth at least $ 5m and potentially much more .
The United States prepares a medical care cost index , which can be found at <URL> The following series are valid : CUSR0000SAM ( seasonally adjusted monthly ) , CUUR0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted monthly ) , and CUUS0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted semiannually ) I ca n't find a financial product which tracks this ( or another ) medical care cost index specifically , although many products are marketed to track the performance of the health care industry as a whole . Products in the latter category can track indexes such as the MSCI US Investable Market Health Care Index or the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index . The industry 's indexes ' behavior may show poor correlation with a medical care costs index 's behavior , however . For example , if medical care costs are stagnant , and if population increases , then one could expect ( all other factors being equal ) that the healthcare industry would be better off , while the costs index would be flat .
I 've used yahoo to perform the exercise you 're asking about . It allows you to download price data , month end if you wish , and by manipulating via a spreadsheet to add a column for purchases , you can easily see how your # 100/mo would end after so long a time period .
One way to analyze the opportunity cost of using a 401K loan would be to calculate your net worth after using a 401K loan . If your net worth increases then the 401K loan would be advisable . Note that the calculations provided below do not take into account tax considerations . A net worth calculation is where you add all your assets and then subtract all your liabilities . The resulting number is your net worth . First , calculate the net worth of not taking the loan and simply paying the credit card interest . This means you only pay the interest on the credit card . In addition to the parameters identified in your question , two additional parameters will need to be considered : Cash and the market rate of return on the 401K . Scenario 1 ( only pay credit card interest ) : After 12 months all you have paid is the interest on the credit card . The 401K balance is untouched so it will hopefully grow . The balance on the credit card remains at the end of 12 months . Scenario 2 ( use 401K loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from your 401K to pay the credit card balance . You will have to pay $ 5,000 plus the 401K interest rate back into your 401K account . Use the following equation to determine when Scenario 2 increases your net worth more than scenario 1 : Thus , if your credit card interest rate is greater than the rate you can earn on your 401K then use the 401K loan to pay off the credit card balance . Another scenario that should be considered : borrow money from somewhere else to pay off the credit card balance . Scenario 3 ( external loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from somewhere besides your 401K to pay off the credit card balance . The following is used to determine if you should use an external loan over the 401K loan : This means you should use an external loan if you can obtain an interest rate less than the rate of return you can earn on your 401K . The same methodology can be used to compare Scenario 3 to Scenario 1 .
These two items ( social security and taxes ) should have also been withheld from any other positions you held previously . Both these items cover you in the future . Social security when you reach retirement age , or earlier if you are disabled . Medicare to serve a your health insurance when you are a senior citizen . Everybody who has wage income pays the medicare tax , there is no maximum limit . For Social security you pay your share until your wage income hits a specific limit . Both Social security and medicare are split between the employee and the employer . If you are a contractor you get to pay both parts . The rate and limits are set by congressional law , and they can be adjusted by congress . In terms of financial crisis they have actually lowered the rates to help workers . The <URL> gives you the limits for each year : For 2013 , the maximum amount of taxable earnings was $ 113,700 . In 2014 , the maximum amount of taxable earnings is $ 117,000 . If you want to be able to track your earnings and benefits go the the <URL> . Keep in mind that the it will only have your earnings through the previous year .
I actually had to go to the bank today and so I decided to ask . The answer I was given is that a check is a legal document ( a promise to pay ) . In order to get your money from the bank , you need to sign the check over to them . By endorsing the check you are attesting to the fact that you have transferred said document to them and they can draw on that account .
For a Canadian university education , an October 2009 article at <URL> says : [ ... ] The study estimates the total price tag of an undergraduate degree at a whopping $ 137,013 for students living away from home and $ 101,426 for those staying at home . [ ... ]
end question
start question
How to keep an eye on identity theft while away and out of the country ?
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
Depending on the student loan , this may be improper usage of the funds . I know the federal loans I received years ago were to be used for education related expenses only . I would imagine most , if not all , student loans would have the same restrictions . Bonus Answer : You must have earned income to contribute to an IRA ( e.g. money received from working ( see <URL> for details ) ) . So , if your earmarked money is coming from savings only , then you would not be eligible to contribute . As far as whether you can designate student loans for the educational expenses and then used earned income for an IRA I would imagine that is fine . However , I have not found any documentation to support my assumption .
You are correct in your initial assessment of this 6 year rule . If you keep it as your primary residence after moving out you can rent it out for up to 6 years and then sell it within that 6 year period and not pay any Capital Gains Tax ( CGT ) . If you rent it out for more than 6 years and it still remains as your primary residence you will only pay CGT on the period over the initial 6 years . For example if you lived in the house for 10 years then rented it out for 10 years and the property remained your primary residence throughout , you would use the initial purchase price + purchase cost + selling cost as your cost base , deduct this from your selling price and work out the proportion of days rented out ( after the first 6 years ) over all the days you owned the property . In this case the proportion would be approximately ( 4 years / 20 years = 20 % ) . So if your sell price is $ 400,000 and your cost base is $ 100,000 , thus your total capital gain is $ 300,000 you would pay CGT on 20 % of this $ 300,000 - being $ 60,000 . Regarding the second part of your question , as both you and your wife are separate entities for tax purposes , and the primary residence you are renting out is solely in your name , then yes you can live in another house which is solely in your wife 's name and still qualify for the 6 year rule above .
The <URL> does not explicitly specify a minimum spending requirement . It does though , have the following catch-all clause for closing the account : We may : • cancel your Account , • suspend the ability to make charges , • cancel or suspend any feature on your Account , and • notify merchants that your Account has been cancelled or suspended . If we do any of these , you must still pay us for all charges under the terms of this Agreement . We may do any of these things at our discretion , even if you pay on time and your Account is not in default . If your Account is cancelled , you must destroy your cards . We may agree to reinstate your Account after a cancellation . If we do this , we may : • reinstate any additional cards issued on your Account , • charge you any applicable annual fees , and • charge you a fee for reinstating the Account . One would suspect that American Express would happily collect the fee from anyone who holds the card , but is not using it ( in any way ) . Someone , though , that is n't spending the expected amount of money , but is availing themselves of the 24 hour concierge service , etc. , would probably find their privileges revoked and/or their card canceled .
As an individual freelancer , you would need to maintain a book of accounts . This should show all the income you are getting , and should also list all the payments incurred . This can not only include the payments to other professionals , but also any hardware purchased , phone bills , any travel and entertainment bills directly related to the service you are offering . Once you arrive at a net profit figure , you would need to file this as your income . Consult a tax professional and he can help with how to keep the records of income and expenses . i.e. . You would need to create invoices for payments , use checks or online transfers for most payments , segregate the accounts , one account used for this professional stuff , and another for your personal stuff , etc. . In a normal course the Income Tax Department does not ask for these records , however whenever your tax returns get scrutinized on a random basis , they would ask for all the relevant documentations .
There 's no limit , from the legal perspective ( with regards to the US law , that is ) , to how much you can keep on your bank accounts anywhere in the world . FBAR requirements are reporting requirements , they do n't limit how much you can keep in the accounts , they only make you report the accounts to the government . There 's no such requirement with regards to the US domestic accounts . That is for the US government , your own government ( of the country of which you 're a citizen of ) may have limitations on what accounts you may have outside of that country , or have reporting requirements of their own . That said , keep in mind that FDIC only insures up to $ 250K per person ( i.e. : on all your accounts ) in each institution . So if you have more than $ 250K in a FDIC insured account - you better spread it across different banks .
What does this mean ? This fund is not an investment company regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and is not afforded its protections . That the fund is n't a traditional open-end mutual fund , unit investment trust or closed-end fund . The <URL> as noted on Investopedia was created after the crash of 1929 to regulate these instruments . What happens if ProShare decided to delist this ETF ? I 'd presume shareholders would get the proceeds from the liquidation of the fund , though delisting is n't likely though reverse splits would be my caution as if the price gets low enough some exchanges may request companies do reverse splits that can annoy some people . Anything else you think is important to know to trade this ETF ? Yes , understand what strategy you have around trading this ETF in terms of getting in and out as it could be quite a volatile holding looking at its graph .
Only 20 , and going through university This is an important question to ask yourself . Your earnings are 0 and will remain so , unless you start working . Are you willing to halve your money , if the markets tank after you put in your money ? Mostly good investors will buy some more , if they know the stocks they have picked are good . Considering that you have no income you will loose out on it . If you are graduating soon , it might make sense to start investing but it should be reliant on the fact on how quickly you will land a job . I would suggest stay put in the ISA for the time being . Check out if you might get a higher rate of interest if possible and transfer there . Check out <URL> . Do n't blindly put money in a ISA , see if you are getting the best deal in the market . And one thing , interest on ISA is calculated daily .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
I would ask for a down payment of 1000 Euros through paypal or a similar payment source . If he backs out , he forfeits the 1000 eu . If that happens your airfare is covered plus some spending money . If he does not cancel then the down counts towards payment . In order for him to feel safer , I would take a pic of the ring with today 's paper , or something that can be dated as recent . Keep in mind you guys can meet at a bank to do the exchange . This way you both feel safer . The bottom line is what are you willing to do to sell the ring at that price ?
The <URL> to this question is a 4 % withdrawal rate . This means a net worth of ( $ 5000 * 12 months ) / 4 % , i.e. , $ 1,500,000 If you want to play with the numbers , based on historical data , you can use the <URL> .
From strictly a gross revenue point of view , the parking spot is going to yield a higher rate ( 5.4 % ) versus a 3 % savings account , assuming you have it rented all year . Your break-even point ( not considering other expenses ) is 7-8 months of rent per year . So , what are things to consider ? Here 's a few to start with . Does location give the parking spot a potential for appreciation of rent or value as economic conditions change ? What is demand like ? Will you be able to rent it consistently ? My neighbor rents a garage to college faculty on a semester basis , and it is often difficult to get tenants in the summertime . What are the carrying costs associated with the spot ? Insurance , property tax , business district fees , etc. . What are your liquidity requirements ? Conveying real property is more time consuming than liquidating savings . This relates to the location too : you can sell a spot in a business district or high-density neighborhood quickly . Does anything about the location limit downside risk ? e.g. stable generators of parking demand like a commuter train station , government office , large apartment , etc. . The parking spot is a nice investment in that you get a decent return , and the potential for appreciation . The savings account/CD will give you a fixed return with no risk . To support your decision , make sure you understand all of the costs and understand all of the downside risk . If you 're 50 and this is alot of money to you , be conservative . If you 're 25 and have a good job , you can afford to chase the yield .
It could be a a way to preserve the value of your money , but depends upon various factors . If a country defaults , and it leads to hyper-inflation , by definition that means that money loses its purchasing power . In even simpler terms , it can not buy as much tomorrow as I could today . Therefore people can be incented to either hoard physical goods , or other non-perishable items . Real-estate may well be such an item . If you are resident in the country , you have to live somewhere . It is possible that a landlord might try to raise rent beyond what your job is willing to pay . Of course , in a house , you might have a similar situation with utilities like electricity ... Assuming some kind of re-stabilization of the economy and currency , even with several more zeros on the end , it is conceivable that the house would subsequently sell for an appropriately inflation adjusted amount , as other in-demand physical goods may . Lots of variables . Good Luck .
Frequently neighboring states reach an agreement that allow only the state where you live to levy taxes on income . The state where you earn that income does n't tax you , and does n't even require you to file any forms . These agreements are done by specific states , and they generally share a border . But , you will still end up counting all the income you receive as income earned in your home state . If you live in the state with the lower tax rate that makes you very happy , because you will save money . Even if you do n't save money you save time because you do n't have to fill out tax forms for both states . If there is no agreement between your two states , then generally you will only count the income where it is earned . Of course you will only be taxed once , and the other state will either ignore it , or give you a credit for the income tax paid to the other state . In some states local jurisdiction : cities , towns , counties also have income taxes . If they do they will be taxing you on all your income that is taxed by your state .
California taxes worldwide income of its residents . So it does n't matter if your K-1 is from California or from Connecticut if you 're a California resident . Your expectation seems to be correct . State taxes are often the weak point for these programs , especially California which has quite complicated tax laws . If in doubt - get a CA licensed tax preparer ( <URL> ) , CPA or EA to help you with your tax return . Tax preparers in California must be licensed by the State unless they hold a <URL> license from the IRS .
It means what it says , 1c per share , but not less than $ 4.95 , meaning you 'll pay $ 4.95 even for one share . The $ 9.95 maximum means that even if you buy 1000 shares , you 'll pay just the $ 9.95 , not that 995 shares are the most they 'll let you trade . seems like a question for <URL>
Today the rates are arrived simply on the basis of demand and supply . Historically rates were pegged to Gold , when all currencies were printed depending on the Gold reserves . So if one country printed 100 units of currency of a 1gm of gold and other country 10 units of currency for 1 gm of gold , the rate would be 1:10 . However In the seventies with shortages of Gold and other reasons , USD became the default standard , so the rate started being pegged to the USD reserves the countries started maintaining . However later in the early eighties , US backing out , the rate purely started getting pegged to market demand and supply . So for most currencies there was a default rate to begin with and today its changed ... Incase of USD/EUR , the initial rate was determined by the weighted average of the currencies that it sought to replace . After that its been market supply and demand . Since most of the trade in international market is US denominated , largest being Oil , each country has created a huge reserves of USD . So technically if China were to bank half its USD denominated treasury bills , the USD would come crashing down , but then China itself would be at disadvantage as its value of USD its holding would become less and it can not buy the same items . Hence all countries keep hording USD and this means US if they print more money , the value will not come down , because it that happens , all countries holding USD would loose their value of reserve . In essence a country can print as much as currency it wants if all ( majority ) its debts and trades are denominated in local currencies . This is 100 % true for US and hence it can get away by printing money . This is also true to a large extent for Japan as bulk of its Debts are denominated in JPY .
When you have a credit freeze , or security freeze , in place with the credit bureaus , this restricts access to your credit report . However , it does not completely prevent all access . Some situations where your credit information is still available , even with a security freeze in place are : Your existing creditors ( and debt collectors acting on their behalf ) still have access to your report . Government agencies can get the report if they have a court order , subpoena , or search warrant . Limited information is still available to potential creditors for " pre-screened " offers . When a company obtains information about you this way ( which is normally done in large groups of people ) , it appears as an inquiry on your credit report . This is most likely what has happened to you . The third one is confusing . You would think that a security freeze would prevent this , but no . In order to prevent pre-screened offer companies from obtaining any information about you , you need to opt-out separately , which you can do online at <URL> * . To answer the second part of your question , I 'm not aware of a way to erase your credit report completely . When you take out a loan , one of the things you agree to is the creditor 's right to add to your credit report . However , closed accounts drop off your credit report after 10 years , so if you wait long enough you 'll have an empty report . More information from the FTC : <URL> <URL> * Note : When you opt out of the prescreen offers online , the opting out is only valid for 5 years ( for your convenience , of course ) . If you want to make it permanent , opt out online , then fill out a " Permanent Opt-Out Election " form , and mail it in .
If some clerk at the bank misses it , you may be able . Technically you should n't be allowed to . All three have to sign .
Quoted from <URL> Personal injury protection ( or PIP , for short ) is a type of medical payments coverage added on to an auto > insurance policy that provides you , the policyholder -- as well as your passengers , relatives living in your home , > and drivers authorized to operate your vehicle -- with medical coverage for immediate and subsequent injuries > sustained during an auto accident . PIP also covers you and your family if you 're injured in a car accident while in someone else 's vehicle and , in > some states , if you 're struck by a vehicle while you 're a pedestrian . So if everyone you are driving with is covered by Personal Health Insurance , you may not need to go for this .
end question
start question
Can a company have a credit rating better than that of the country where it is located ?
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
When a house is sold at a foreclosure auction , the selling bank usually does not provide the guarantees that a normal house seller provides . Furthermore , the previous owner may have neglected the property , and/or spitefully damaged the property . Bank-owned properties are often neglected and/or vandalized . Banks are usually too short-sighted to properly market the real estate they own , and do a poor job of making it easy to buy the property . Thus , foreclosure sales usually happen at a price that is significantly below the " fair market value " of sales between competent households . It is common for a house that is worth $ 125,000 ( even in a depressed market ) to sell for only $ 100,000 in a short sale or foreclosure . It is possible that this property sold for an even larger discount . It is also possible that the tax assessor is ( inadvertently ) comparing a run-down property with well-maintained properties that have extra expensive features , without fully adjusting for the properties ' conditions and features . In the latter scenario , the property owner can ask the tax assessor to re-consider the assessment . Usually this request is called an " <URL> " .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
Amazon will not credit any different card . They can not know that the different card number is in fact a replacement for the old one you used . Your card issuer , however , can . If receive the refund form Amazon , and can transfer it to the new card . However , you need to talk to them and ask them if and how will they do that . They may decide to apply it to the fraudulent transactions ' balance instead of giving it to you , to reduce their losses , so you need to talk to them beforehand and make sure that since the refund is for the purchase made before the card was cancelled , they will transfer it to the new card with all the rest of the information . Another option is to request a refund to your Amazon account as a gift card balance for further purchases . I know that many retail shops will gladly give you a gift card instead of the cash/credit refund , so it may be worth your while to check with Amazon if they do that too .
I 'm just began playing in the stock market . I assume you mean that you 're not using real money , but rather you have an account with a stock simulator like <URL> . I am hopeful that 's the case due to the high level of risk involved in short selling like you 're describing . Here is <URL> about short selling that expands a bit on that point . To learn much more about the ins and outs of short selling I will point again to Investopedia . I swear I do n't work for them , but they do have a great <URL> . When you short sell a stock you are borrowing the stock from your broker . ( The broker typically uses stock held by one or more of his clients to cover the loan . ) Since it 's basically a loan you pay interest . Of course the longer you hold it the more interest you pay . Also , as Joe mentioned there are scenarios in which you may be forced to buy the stock ( at a higher price than you sold it ) . This tends to happen when the stock price is going against the short sell ( i.e. you lose money ) . Finally , did anyone mention that the potential losses in a short sell are infinite ?
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
In the past , it was certainly possible for the minimum payment to be less than the interest . This situation was known as " negative amortization . " According to CreditCards.com , this practice has been banned in the US . If you make the minimum payment , it must cover the interest + a portion going towards the principal . <URL>
In Singapore , this is sufficiently common that the Singapore IRS has a page on <URL> dedicated to informing employers of how to properly pay this under <URL> . Specifically , tax paid by employer is taxable income for the employee ( as it 's really the employee 's responsibility ) , so they must pay tax for that tax . A tax-on-tax is computed for the tax paid , which also would be owed by the employer if they were paying the full tax rate for the employee . As a clarification , this is not the employer being truly responsible for the employee 's income ; this is the employer compensating the employee further to offset their taxable income . This is effectively a fringe benefit , although it may be particularly useful in countries where either tax evasion is common ( and thus an employer must compete with employers willing to pay under the table ) or where employers are competing with others in nearby countries with lower tax rates . It is not the same thing as the employer making your income nontaxable , though , and has implications for your tax filing . Significantly , it is likely that if you have additional income beyond income from that employer , it is likely to be taxed at your highest tax rate , as the employer will likely calculate the tax due based on their income being the only income you have in that year . * Edit based on emphasis in question : I 'm not from Singapore nor am I a lawyer , but based on my reading of the IRAS website , it looks like you do not have to file if you have no other source of income , because they have a <URL> which takes income information from your employer automatically and generates a tax bill , which presumably would be fully paid in your case . This only aplies if you have no other sources of income , however ; you still have to file if you have other sources of income since your employer would not know about them . If you are eligible for this service , you should get a <URL> informing you as such . They also have a tool to check your filing status on their website .
It is ordinary income to you . You should probably talk to a California licensed CRTP/EA/CPA , but I doubt they 'll say anything different . You would probably ask them whether you can treat some of it as a refund of rent paid , but I personally would n't feel comfortable with that .
EDIT : It was <URL> August 24 , 2015 2:12 PM EDT Pursuant to <URL> NASDAQ , on <URL> , in conjunction with BATS , and FINRA has determined to cancel all trades in security Blackrock Capital Investment . ( Nasdaq : BKCC ) at or below $ 5.86 that were executed in NASDAQ between 09:38:00 and 09:46:00 ET . This decision can not be appealed . NASDAQ will be canceling trades on the participants behalf . A person on <URL> claimed that he was the buyer . He used <URL> , a $ 0 commission broker and start-up . The canceled trades are reflected on CTA/UTP and the current charts will differ from the one posted below . It is an undesired effect of the 5-minute Trading Halt . It is not " within 1 hour of opening , BKCC traded between $ 0.97 and $ 9.5 " . Those trades only occurred for a few seconds on two occasions . One possible reason is that when the trading halt ended , there was a lot of Market Order to sell accumulated . Refer to the following chart , where each candle represents a 10 second period . As you can see , the low prices did not " sustain " for hours . <URL> And the published halts . <URL>
Will you be paying your mortgage during the period you are trying to sell ? That is the bigger indication of effect on your score . The other thing you might care about is how long you are black listed from future mortgages . It should be only a couple of years if you do a short sale , but closer to 7 if you walked away . The last I heard on the Clark Howard radio show was , as far as direct impact to your score , a short sale , a foreclosure and a deed in lieu all take the same number of points . But those points are not as many as the number of points you lose if you do n't pay your mortgage for several months . Worst case , plan for a drop of 400 points if you are n't paying your mortgage and the sale takes a long time . MyFico released a chart explaining the possible impact . Remember everybody uses a different scoring model , but this is a nice guide . <URL>
I think it 's safe to say that Apple can not grow in value in the next 20 years as fast as it did in the prior 20 . It rose 100 fold to a current 730B valuation . 73 trillion dollars is nearly <URL> in the world . Unfortunately , for every Apple , there are dozens of small companies that do n't survive . Long term it appears the smaller cap stocks should beat large ones over the very long term if only for the fact that large companies ca n't maintain that level of growth indefinitely . A non-tech example - Coke has a 174B market cap with 46B in annual sales . A small beverage company can have $ 10M in sales , and grow those sales 20-25 % / year for 2 decades before hitting even $ 1B in sales . When you have zero percent of the pie , it 's possible to grow your business at a fast pace those first years .
I would guess that before the spin-off , more money would be available In my experience the reverse is true . The finance folks go into overdrive tightening everything up so that budget forecasts for the transition period are as accurate and predictable as possible . This can be true 6 months out , 12 months out , etc - depending on the size and complexity of the business . So in terms of when to renegotiate , I think approaching the issue after the dust has settled is more realistic . Make sure you know your numbers as per normal and just remember that after the spin-off has occurred it 's a business like any other business : if you are in position to negotiate ( and reasonably expect ) a raise then the fact that they spun off recently - a month or two before - is meaningless to the negotiation .
No , having to borrow money does not necessarily mean a company will have a hard time paying the interest on it . Similarly , having to take out a mortgage on a house does not mean a person will not be able to make their mortgage payments . Borrowing money can be a way to spend future money instead of present money ( at a cost , of course ) . A company might not have all that money at the moment , but that in no way implies they wo n't have it in the future . And as you allude to in your question where you talk about " funding some ... plans " , a company might be able to grow itself -- possibly increasing future profits -- by borrowing money .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
The debt is absolutely real . China loans money to US via buying the US treasury bonds . The bond is essentially a promise to pay back the money with interest , just like a loan . As you point out , the US can print money . If this were to happen , then the USD that the owner of a treasury bond receives when the bond matures are worth less that than the USD used to purchase the bonds . There are lots of reasons why the US does n't want to print lots of money , so the purchaser of the bond is probably confident it wo n't happen . If for some reason they think it is possible , then they will want to cover that risk by only purchasing bonds that have a higher interest rate . The higher interest offsets the risk of the USD being worth less . Of course , there are lots more details , e.g. , the bonds themselves are bought and sold before maturity , but this is the basic idea .
Nothing is stopping you from opening up Roth IRAs in different companies and contributing the maximum to each one , but if you do n't withdraw contributions ( and any earnings generated by the withdrawn contributions while within the IRA ) so as to leave a total contribution of $ 5500 for 2013 , then Yes , you will be penalized . You do not report contributions to a Roth IRA on your tax return , but companies report to the IRS on the IRA accounts they hold , and the contributions and withdrawals/distributions made each year into each IRA account . Each company will send you a copy of the form that it sent in to the IRS so you wo n't be blind-sided in this matter . You will then get a letter from the IRS informing you that you have to pay penalties ( the technical term is a 6 % excise tax ) for over-contributing to your IRA . If you obdurately refuse to remove the excess contributions ( and any earnings generated by the excess contributions ) , that tax will be assessed in the years following too , until the matter is set right . . Note also that the maximum allowable contribution is reduced ( and ultimately eliminated entirely ) for people with high Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) . Some people make a contribution to a Roth IRA each year but then withdraw it in timely fashion when they discover that their MAGI is too high ( often during the preparation of their income tax returns ) .
Your credit utilization is calculated on your closing date when your statement is posted , and only then does it affect your credit score . Also , utilization affects your score in <URL> , which means that if you have high credit utilization one month , e.g. when you buy tickets home , but low credit utilization the next month , your credit score will reflect the most recent utilization . You should n't necessarily stress about the months where you have high utilization ; just keep your utilization lower the next month . If you still want to keep your utilization low every month , <URL> , if you can afford it . Be sure to leave some balance on your card on your closing date , however , because 0 % utilization is n't good for your score either . As long as you leave a small balance on the card when your statement is posted , your credit score will reflect a low utilization . If you can also quickly acquire credit limit increases , though , that 's another good way to lower your utilization , as long as it does n't lead you to spend too much .
Why do you care if it 's " legal " ? If you are concerned about the security implications and do n't want to do it , then do n't do it . If the company wo n't accept your deposits without it , then go to another investment company . There are hundreds of them out there . I have never , ever had someone ask for a scanned image of my credit card , and I 've done business with at least half a dozen investment companies , so this is not a standard industry practice . You have at your disposal a protection far stronger than the ability to bring some sort of legal complaint : You can take your business elsewhere . Doing that does n't require hiring a lawyer or going to court or anything . You just do it . All that said , there are ways to avoid creating much additional security risk . I presume you 've already given them your name , address , card number , and security code over the phone or through their website , so you 've trusted them with this information , and if hackers or the NSA wanted to snoop on your private information , they could have done it then . Okay , a web page might have used https and thus been encrypted while an email is not . So three solutions : ( a ) If they provide an upload on an https page , use that and you have no more security risk than when you originally entered this information . ( b ) Put the scanned image into an encrypted file before emailing , like say an encrypted PDF , or encrypt the image file with some other software , and then send them the password in a separate email . ( c ) You can get fairly decent security by sending the front and back of the card in two separate emails sent at different times . Then a hacker would have to intercept both and be able to connect them to each other . BTW I would n't really worry about the NSA intercepting such emails . I presume that if they want access to your credit card account , they have easier ways to accomplish that than figuring out this unusual system . Unless they have some specific reason to target you or this investment company , they 're probably not searching for images of credit cards in emails .
end question
start question
If I cash in a U.S. treasury bond before maturity , do I lose out on the difference in face value and purchase value ?
Your bond 's current value reflects interest that has accumulated since the issue date . See , e.g. , <URL> for your bond on the Treasury Direct website . Also on that website , there is a <URL> for determining the current value . Note that , per the first link : Treasury guarantees that an EE Bond will be worth at least its face value when it reaches its original maturity date . If , for some reason , the current value is much less than the face value , it may be worth waiting until the maturity date to take advantage of that guarantee . ( I do n't know whether or not such a discrepancy is possible in practice . ) In summary , you purchased the bond for some purchase price less than the face value . Over time , before the the maturity , the bond gains value beyond the purchase price due to interest . At the maturity date , the value will reflect either : the original purchase price , plus interest , or the face value , whichever is higher . If you cash out before the maturity date , you get the original purchase price plus interest .
WilliamKF explained it pretty well , but I want to put it in a more simplistic form : Stock : You own certain part of the company . The value of the stock derives from the value of the company . Bond : You lend money to the company . Company owes you money , but you do n't own a part in it . The value of the bond derives from the current rates , remaining payments on the loan , and company 's ability to make them .
if you bought gold in late ' 79 , it would have taken 30 years to break even . Of all this time it was two brief periods the returns were great , but long term , not so much . Look at the ETF GLD if you wish to buy gold , and avoid most of the buy/sell spread issues . Edit - I suggest looking at <URL> and decide whether long term gold actually makes sense for you as an investor . It 's sold with the same enthusiasm as snake oil was in the 1800 's , and the suggestion that it 's a storehouse of value seems nonsensical to me .
I think you can go with option 2 , but I 'm not sure TurboTax supports it . It will probably want to generate an amended form for you .
It 's a form of debt issued by the United States Treasury . As the name implies , a 10-year note is held for 10 years ( after which you get the face value in cash ) , and it pays interest twice per year . It 's being used in the calculator to stand for a readily available , medium-term , nearly risk-free investment , as a means of " discounting " the value that the company gains . The explanation for why the discounting is done can be found on the page you linked . As a Canadian you could use the yield of comparable Canadian treasury securities as quoted by Bank of Canada ( which seem to have had the bottom fall out since the new year ) , although I do n't suppose American notes would be hard for a Canadian investor to come by , so if you wanted to be conservative you could use the US figure as long as it 's higher .
Split transactions are indispensable to anybody interested in accurately tracking their spending . If I go to the big-box pharmacy down the road to pick up a prescription and then also grab a loaf of bread and a jug of milk while there , then I 'd want to enter the transaction into my software as : one single transaction for the total amount , but some part of the amount categorized as " Healthcare - Prescriptions " , and some part of the amount categorized as " Groceries " . I desire entering precise data into the software so that I can rely on the reports it produces . Often , I do n't need an exact amount and estimated category totals would have been fine , e.g. to inform budgeting , or compare to a prior period . However , in other cases , the expenses I 'm tracking must be tracked accurately because I 'd be using the total to claim an income tax deduction ( or credit ) . Consider how Internet access might be commingled on the same bill with the home 's cable TV service . One is a reasonable business expense and deduction for the work-at-home web developer , whereas the other is a personal non-deductible expense . Were split transaction capability not available , the somewhat unattractive alternatives are : Ignore the category difference and , say , categorize the entire transaction as the larger or more important category . But , this deliberately introduces error in the tracked data , rendering it useless for cases where the category totals need to be accurate , or , Split the transaction manually . This does n't introduce error into the tracked data , but suffers another problem : It makes a lot of work . First , one would need to manually enter two ( or more ) top-level transactions instead of the single one with sub-amounts . Perhaps not that much more work than if a split were entered . Worse is when it comes time to reconcile : Now there are two ( or more ) transactions in the register , but the credit card statement has only one . Reconciling would require manually adding up those transactions from the register just to confirm the amount on the statement is correct . Major pain ! I 'd place split transaction capability near the top of the list of " must have " features for any finance management software .
Unless stated otherwise , these terms apply to all bonds . Par value vs purchase price The <URL> or face value of a bond refers to the value of the bond when it 's redeemed at maturity . A bond with a par value of $ 10,000 simply means that if you purchase the bond and hold it until the maturity date specified in the contract , you receive $ 10,000 . The purchase price , however , is exactly that : it 's what you paid for the bond . Bonds may sell below , at , or above par . Continuing the example from above , if you paid $ 9,800 for a bought a bond with a $ 10,000 par value , you bought the bond below par . A bond selling below par is said to be selling at a discount . For bonds selling above bar , they 're selling at a premium . If the purchase price and the par value are the same , the bond is selling at par . Call price and call date These terms apply to <URL> only , which are bond contracts that allow the issuer of the bond ( in the case of municipal bonds , the institution or agency who created the contract ) to buy back from bond holders at a given date ( the call date ) and at a given price ( the call price ) before the bond reaches maturity and pays the holder the full par value . Coupon rate Yes , the <URL> is essentially the interest paid . It 's usually represented as a percent of the par value , so if the $ 10,000 in the example above had a 5 % coupon rate , this means that it paid out 0.05 * 10,000 = $ 500 each year . Usually , this payment is made as two semi-annual payments of $ 250 . Some bonds are <URL> , which means exactly what you would think ; they do n't make any coupon payments . U.S. Treasury Bills are one example of a zero-coupon bond . All of these factors are linked , because the coupon rate , callable provisions , and par value , along with the overall economic environment , can affect the purchase price of a bond .
Your bond 's current value reflects interest that has accumulated since the issue date . See , e.g. , <URL> for your bond on the Treasury Direct website . Also on that website , there is a <URL> for determining the current value . Note that , per the first link : Treasury guarantees that an EE Bond will be worth at least its face value when it reaches its original maturity date . If , for some reason , the current value is much less than the face value , it may be worth waiting until the maturity date to take advantage of that guarantee . ( I do n't know whether or not such a discrepancy is possible in practice . ) In summary , you purchased the bond for some purchase price less than the face value . Over time , before the the maturity , the bond gains value beyond the purchase price due to interest . At the maturity date , the value will reflect either : the original purchase price , plus interest , or the face value , whichever is higher . If you cash out before the maturity date , you get the original purchase price plus interest .
You ask two questions , which I answer in order . You may or may not have something to worry about . The fact that the market value has dropped could mean either that interest rates in general have risen ( you may suffer regret , but no reason to worry ) or that the credit quality of the issuer has deteriorated ( you are less likely to get your money back ) . In the case of the latter , you write " but I still believe they would be able to pay . " That 's nice , but does the market agree ? Perhaps the market knows something you do n't . Or , perhaps you know something the market does n't , in which case this is actually an opportunity ( to buy more ) . When the bond matures , your bank or investment company will handle the payment from the issuer to your account ( provided the issuer does not default , of course ) .
Vested shares belong to you . Their value was recognized as your salary when they vested , and from that point on these are just shares that you own .
If you are using T-mobile you do n't have to put $ 100 in each year to keep your minutes for a year . Once you spend $ 100 you get a year with any additional minutes you buy . Buying them $ 100 at a time is the cheapest way - but when you renew you can renew with only $ 50 or $ 30 and you have a year to use them from the last time you bought . I did this this year - only put $ 50 on each phone because we do n't use $ 100 worth in a year .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
Increases in the YMPE are calculated from a formula detailed in <URL> of the <URL> . The pattern is defined like this : the YMPE for 2014 is calculated by multiplying the current YMPE by ( average monthly wage measure for the 12-month period ending June 30 , 2012 ) / ( average monthly wage measure for the 12-month period ending June 30 , 2011 ) . The law also states that if the amount calculated by the above formula is less than the YMPE for the preceding year , the YMPE remains the same instead of shrinking . The wage measure is the average weekly wages , salaries , and other earnings , measured monthly , of the Industrial Aggregate , as published by Statistics Canada . Although the law stipulates procedures for changing the definition of this measure , I could n't find any sources that indicate it 's changed since the law 's passage . The <URL> has a breakdown by sector , and I believe it 's the earnings value for " Industrial aggregate excluding unclassified businesses " that 's used . I downloaded the <URL> and tried to match the <URL> to the data . I went to the download tab and used Option 2 . The calculated numbers are a fairly close fit . For example , the 2011 estimate is calculated , and the 2012 estimate is calculated , etc. . Increases in the YMPE are technically different from increase in CPP payments ; CPP payments amounts <URL> . Although earnings theoretically grow at the rate of inflation , these growth rates are n't the same in practice .
Accounting principles aside , the way to think about depreciation is to ask " what could I sell it for ? " . The depreciation over a year is the difference between wht it 's worth now and what it is worth in a year . Taking cars as an example , on the day you drive it off the dealer 's lot it becomes a used car , and is worth less than a new car , so it depreciates quite a bit . Assuming you are asking ' will my 2014 car be worth less in a year 's time than a 2015 model bought at the same time ' , the answer is probably yes ( unless it turns out that everyone hates the 2015 model ) . On the other hand , you should be able to get the 2014 model for less than the 2015 model ; so the 2014 model may have depreciated less . From the dealer 's point of view the car has depreciated , since he bought it assuming it could be sold for the full price of a 2014 model , and now he is going to have to sell it at a discount .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
It depends on the broker , each one 's rules may vary . Your broker should be able to answer this question for how they handle such a situation . The broker I used would execute and immediately sell the stock if the option was 25 cents in the money at expiration . If they simply executed and news broke over the weekend ( option expiration is always on Friday ) , the client could wake up Monday to a bad margin call , or worse .
You mean to tell me that everyone does n't pay his/her fair share ?! Please say it is n't so . :) Therein lies the welfare state : Tax the rich more heavily to subsidize the poor , and hobble the rich 's ability to do so on their own accord . In any case , though , in the United States , if you make any money whatsoever , that usually counts as income , and can hence be taxed . <URL> . Pretty all-inclusive , is n't it ? Businesses are allowed to deduct expenses to count against their income , but if one has more expenses than income year after year , ( a ) this is the road to financial ruin , and ( b ) the IRS puts an end to the tax losses after enough years of failing to show a profit . So , sure , if a businessperson does n't have any income , then they 're technically using the roads , etc. , " for free , " but unless the businessperson wants to live off the land and the kindness of strangers , he 'd better turn a profit eventually . Then he 'll be taxed .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
No , you can not withdraw the money until settlement day . Some brokers will allow you to trade with unsettled funds , but you can not withdraw it until it is settled . Think about it , when you buy stock you have to pay for them by T +3 , so if you sell you actually do n't receive the funds until T +3 .
You paid the expense when you put it on the credit card in 2015 . The fact that you did n't pay the credit card until 2016 does n't change that .
end question
start question
Ca n't the account information on my checks be easily used for fraud ?
Yes , and there are almost no checks ( no pun intended ) on people pulling money from your account using a routing number . It is an EXTREMELY insecure system . If you want a real Halloween scare , read this article : <URL> . Unfortunately you just have to live with it . If you are curious why this loophole is allowed to continue , consider how hard it is to close it without undermining the convenience of checks . Short of you going to the bank with each person you write a check to and showing ID to validate the transaction , I do n't see how you could continue to use a negotiable instrument like this without such a security hole . The ultimate answer is going to have to be replacing checks with other means of payment .
Check use is declining here too , but it still has some practical advantages over electronic means : It does not require the receiving party to provide any account number to the paying party ( directly or indirectly ) . The receiving party does not even have to have a bank account at all , since a check can be cashed at the bank on which its drawn . The receiving party can frequently deposit a check with no fees . For the most part businesses taking payments electronically pay for the service . Many small " mom &amp; pop " businesses do n't want to pay or can not afford to pay those fees . It works ( as in the example you gave in the question ) when electronic transactions fail , precisely because it is low-tech . Even online transactions sometimes get converted to check in the end . I can use " online bill pay " for almost any transaction ( including to pay back a friend where no real " bill " exists ) , but the bank sends a physical check to many such parties ( especially if it goes to a friend who is n't going to be registered in the bank 's system ) . It 's a matter of opinion whether the electronic transactions are " better . " I certainly find them to be more convenient in many cases , but people used to the old system still like it , and it generally works , so there 's no specific reason to kill it . For some specific purpose like paying taxes , you get slightly better treatment paying by check because most transactions are credited based on the postmark on the physical mail but get debited from your account based on when the check clears the banking system . That only buys you about a week , but for some people that week might be worth the " hassle " of writing a physical check . Relative to cash , the check is safer and creates a self-documenting transaction because the cleared check is a legal record of the transaction . ( Obviously electronic transactions also share these features . )
There 's no rule of thumb -- people get ripped all of the time on trade-ins or when they sell cars to the dealer . I think with used car negotiations , demand for the car is more important than their cost . If you 're talking a 2007 Kia , there will be lots of room . If it 's a 2009 Honda , they wo n't even discuss price . In terms of negotiations , you 'll only get the best price if you 're willing to walk away at most dealers . I usually pick 2-3 candidate cars at different lots and show up on the last day of the month . If it 's busy , look at the wall and find the # 1 salesman and be a pain in the butt . Refuse to listen to the 4-square speil and walk away slowly if he does n't negotiate . When I was in high school , my dad almost ran over a car salesman who literally jumped out in front of the car as we were leaving . My dad got his price and signed the contract right in the car .
As long as you have a legitimate signed agreement with the person who is legitimately renting and has a contract with the owners , you are in dealings with the person from whom you sublet the place . Therefore for all intents and purposes they are your landlord . You would provide their information , how much you are paying them , and so on - basically as if they are the landlord because legally they are . As for your scholarships that will make no difference . Since you renting , paying and its legit ( meaning not a favor ) . So you are good and covered to use that information .
I have no personal knowledge of this company ; I 've only looked over what I found on the web . Overall , my judgement is that Pension Benefit Information , Inc. of San Rafael , CA is likely legitimate and aboutmyletter.com is one of two sites run by them ( the other being pbinfo.com ) . These two sites are <URL> to Pension Benefit Information , Inc. ( aboutmyletter uses Network Solutions privacy service but gives the company name ; pbinfo uses their name and San Rafael address . ) They are in the BBB . The president ( of the 8 employee Co. ) , Susan McDonald , has <URL> before Congress about business uses of SSNs . They made a ( very schlocky ) video , which has an interview with McDonald after several canned , generic , " impressive " introductions . I found the interview convincing of a person actually running a small , real business of this type . A short version is on their site , <URL> . There are some queries about their legitimacy online ( like this one ) , but I found nothing negative on them , and <URL> . <URL> talks about the suspicions they run into when contacting participants , and has some advice . Also , scammers are unlikely to pay the U.S. Postal Service money to send paper letters . So what are the dangers ? Money or identity . So do n't pay them any fees ( now or later ) , especially since it looks like their clients ( retirement funds ) pay on the other side . As for identity information : What 's in the letter ? Do n't they show that they already know a bunch about you ? Old employer ? Maybe the last four digits of your SSN ? Your address ( if this is not the forwarded-by-IRS type of contact letter ) . Other things , maybe ? What information would you be giving up if you did respond to them fully ? You could try contacting your old company directly ( mentioning PBI , Inc , ) , although on their website PBI says you 'll have to go through them . ( They probably get paid for each successful contact , and deserve it . ) Still , responding through mail or telephone to PBI seems like the reasonable thing to do .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
Checks like these are called starter checks . You are meant to use them until you have time to order real checks . They are completely valid . You should have no trouble using them for paying your monthly bills , as utility companies and the like do not hand process payments . Their computers scan the banking information and read the payment amount entered in the numeric display .
Get a credit report on yourself , if the report shows the outstanding debt then you can do something about it by writing to the bank . However keep in mind that a bank might write off a debt if they consider it not worth the cost of chasing it down . You could also try the lost bank account service : <URL>
According to IRS <URL> : If you pay medical expenses by check , the day you mail or deliver the check generally is the date of payment . The quoted text can be found under the section titled What Expenses Can You Include This Year ?
You can only make deposits into an ATM that your bank owns ( or has some special relationship with ) . You can make withdrawals from any ATM . UPDATE : Comments show that there are some credit unions that have special relationships with other banks/credit unions and allow you to make deposits into their machines .
Citibank just sent me a $ 100 check . Here 's how I got it : File a complaint on Better Business Bureau ( I also tried a couple of other avenues , but this seems to have been what worked ) . Filling out the complaint form takes maybe 15-20 min depending on your story . Citibank then simply sent me a $ 100 check as a " customer courtesy " . I did n't even need to do any more work , talk to anyone , write any more . Nada . I just got a $ 100 check in the mail . That simple !
A couple ideas : Use excel - it has an IRR ( internal rate of return ) that can handle a table of inputs as you describe , along with dates deposited to give you a precise number . Go simple - track total deposits over the year , assume half of that was present in January . So , for example , your account started the year with $ 10k , ended with $ 15k , but you deposited $ 4k over the year . It should be clear the return ( gain ) is $ 1k , right ? But it 's not 10 % , as you added during the year . I 'd divide $ 1k / $ 12k for an 8.3 % return . Not knowing how your deposits were structured , the true number lies between the 10 % and 6.7 % as extremes . You 'll find as you get older and have a higher balance , this fast method gaining accuracy , as your deposits are a tinier fraction of your account and likely spread out pretty smoothly over the year anyway .
I 'm not sure I understand your question , but I 'll try to answer what I think you 're asking . I think you 're asking this : " A US bank receives a wire transfer from a Chinese bank . How does the US bank ensure there 's any money in fact arriving before crediting the destination account ? " Well , the way wire transfers work is that the US bank would debit the senders ' account with that US bank . So the US bank in fact transfers the money between two internal accounts : debit to the Chinese bank 's account with that US bank and credit the destination customer account . If the Chinese bank does n't have an account with the destination US bank - a third party intermediary is used that both banks have accounts with . Such third party will charge an additional fee ( hence sometimes the wire transfer fees are slightly higher than you initially know when sending the money , the third party would debit from the transfer amount ) . " Regular " IBAN/ACH transfers work through regulatory channels that ensure integrity and essentially use a regulatory bank as that third party . But because they 're done in batches and not on-line , they 're much cheaper , and the accounting is for the whole batch and not each transfer separately . But batch processing means it will take a day or two of processing , while wire transfer takes hours at most .
No functional difference . Only impression/convenience . " Business checks " are checks in larger format ( 8 " instead of the regular 5 " checks ) , they can be from your personal account just as well . I did n't have any problem using the small " individual " - standard checks for my company ( I actually did get them for free from Wells Fargo , but that was a gesture , not by policy ) .
One option is <URL> , sometimes just called I Bonds . The basic mechanism is that there is a fixed rate set when you buy the bond , and an adjustable rate that changes every six months to reflect CPI . They stop paying you interest after 30 years , but you can redeem them at any time after one year . The major advantages : There is very little risk . The inflation adjustment eliminates inflation risk . You can trade them only with the US Treasury , so there is no risk of capital gains or losses . They are Treasury bonds , so there is as little creditor risk as can exist . They are taxed advantaged . You can elect to postpone taxes until you redeem them , and taxes are completely eliminated if you use the proceeds for favored activities . They are almost perfectly liquid . You can redeem them at any time after one year . The major disadvantages : The current rates are only mildly better than other rates . The current fixed rate is 0.00 % . The current adjustable rate is 1.10 % for six months . That gives a current annual rate of 2.20 % . That is better than you can get elsewhere , but it 's still not great . You can not redeem them for the first year . From one to five years after purchase , there is a penalty of the most recent 3 months ' interest . So if you redeem them within five years , your effective rate is less than the advertised rate ( but at least it 's predictable ) . You are limited to $ 5000 per US Taxpayer per calendar year . So it wo n't cover your entire downpayment , but it might be a reasonable supplement . Treasury is in the process of eliminating paper bonds , so you can now only buy I Bonds from the Treasury Direct website ( linked above ) . I do n't own I Bonds , and have never used Treasury Direct , but everything I 've heard says that it 's very difficult to use .
You can view the donations as helping to pay for your time spent on development , so I do n't think there 's any moral or legal issue with asking for them . However you will need to pay tax on them as income , which may involve registering with HMRC as self-employed . They also wo n't be tax-deductible for the donors or eligible for gift aid , as you are n't a charity .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
Could it be done ? Yes , it could , subject to local law . A variant of such an approach has been suggested for those countries experiencing collapse of demand . One might consider whether whether it applied to secured loans ( such as mortgages ) , unsecured loans , or both ; whether it would be capped at a certain absolute ( say # 100k ) or proportional ( first 50 % ) of each mortgage ; whether it would cover first homes only , or all homes ; and so on . These details would radically change the feasibility and consequences of any such intervention . See the related question : <URL> Such a policy of debt cancellation would have several consequences beyond initial stimulation of demand , that would need additional policies to deal with them . Risks : Inflation The resultant surge in demand would , in the absence of any other intervention , result in a massive surge in inflation . There are some interesting questions about whether this burst of inflation would be a one-off , or not . One could make an argument that as housing has become much more affordable ( at least for home-owners ) , it would increase the downward pressure on wages , which would be in itself counter-inflationary in the medium-long term . Nevertheless , it would be injecting much more money into the economy than has been seen in QE to date , so the risks would be of extraordinarily high inflation , which might or might not get entrenched . In order to manage the short-term risk , and long-term inflation expectations , it might be necessary to incorporate a lot of tightening , either fiscal ( higher taxes and/or lower public spending ) , or monetary : ( higher interest rates , unwinding QE , new requirements for higher core capital for banks ) Moral hazard There are risks of moral hazard for individuals : however , as a society , we were prepared to accept the moral hazard for financial institutions and their staff , so that may or may not be an issue : it is likely to be a question of long-term expectations . If the expectation is that this is at most a once-in-a-lifetime occurrence , then the consequential risk from moral hazard ought to be lower . Excess profits to lenders Lenders will typically work on the basis of a certain proportion of defaults , so paying off all loans effectively gives them an artificial boost to their profits . Worsening balance of payments There is to a degree a prisoners ' dilemma facing nations here . Pressing the reset-button on personal debt across many of the countries experiencing demand-collapse would benefit all of them . However , if just one such country were to do it alone , they alone would increase domestic demand , resulting in a large increase in imports , but no significant increase in exports .
Based on a quick look at the street via Google Maps I have Estimated that there are 50 properties on the street Assume that all are 2 family houses . If 10 % are rentals that means that 10 units have renters . If they are evenly spread though out the year then 1 is for rent right now . If 25 % of all listings appear on Craigslist . Then there is a 25 % chance there is a listing on Craigslist right now . Finding Zero is the expected result of your Craigslist check . You will have to do a lot more research . A local agent can help you determine the number of days they stay on the market before they are rented . They can also help determine the spread between purchase costs and rental cost . You will also have to figure in the cost of hiring a local management company , if you do n't want to drive to Syracuse every time the renter has a problem in the middle of the night , or in the middle of a blizzard .
It seems that counting your father as your dependent should n't , in itself , cause him to be ineligible for SNAP . Eligibility requirements for SNAP can be found on <URL> . There are upper limits on the " countable resources , such as a bank account " that the beneficiary 's household may have , and on that household 's income . ( There are some other requirements , too . ) From what I can tell from your question , your father should n't be part of your household for SNAP purposes , because : Everyone who lives together and purchases and prepares meals together is grouped together as one household . If you 're transferring him money , I assume he 's living and eating somewhere else , so it seems you are not part of his household . According to the IRS 's Publication 501 , your father is not required to be part of your household for IRS purposes to be your dependent . <URL> is that a non-child dependent must either : Live with you all year as a member of your household , or Be related to you in one of the ways listed under <URL> However , by the <URL> , you may be able to use your father as your qualifying person ( dependent ) to be able to file as " head of household " , so long as you pay more than half their support , and " more than half the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for the entire year for your father " . I do n't know if in this case the IRS would consider your father " part of your household " or not . Even if the IRS considered your father part of your household based on the way you filed your taxes , I think it 's possible , as the IRS and FNS are two different entities , that the definition of your father 's household for SNAP purposes could be different from the IRS 's .
end question
start question
Gains/loss calculation for staggered buys & sells ?
You specify how you want your transaction handled when you sell . I think most of online brokers have that option when you sell online . Here is a definition of " Lot Relief Method " from <URL> Definition of ' Lot Relief Method ' A method of computing the cost basis of an asset that is sold in a taxable transaction . There are five major lot relief methods that can be used for this purpose . They include FIFO ( First-In-First-Out ) , LIFO ( Last-In-First-Out ) , Dollar Value LIFO , Specific ID ( a specific lot of securities or assets are chosen to use for the cost basis ) and Average Cost ( the average cost basis of all securities or assets purchased is used ) .
Your idea is a good one , but , as usual , the devil is in the details , and implementation might not be as easy as you think . The comments on the question have pointed out your Steps 2 and 4 are not necessarily the best way of doing things , and that perhaps keeping the principal amount invested in the same fund instead of taking it all out and re-investing it in a similar , but different , fund might be better . The other points for you to consider are as follows . How do you identify which of the thousands of conventional mutual funds and ETFs is the average-risk / high-gain mutual fund into which you will place your initial investment ? Broadly speaking , most actively managed mutual fund with average risk are likely to give you less-than-average gains over long periods of time . The unfortunate truth , to which many pay only Lipper service , is that X % of actively managed mutual funds in a specific category failed to beat the average gain of all funds in that category , or the corresponding index , e.g. S&amp;P 500 Index for large-stock mutual funds , over the past N years , where X is generally between 70 and 100 , and N is 5 , 10 , 15 etc. . Indeed , one of the arguments in favor of investing in a very low-cost index fund is that you are effectively guaranteed the average gain ( or loss :-( , do n't forget the possibility of loss ) . This , of course , is also the argument used against investing in index funds . Why invest in boring index funds and settle for average gains ( at essentially no risk of not getting the average performance : average performance is close to guaranteed ) when you can get much more out of your investments by investing in a fund that is among the ( 100-X ) % funds that had better than average returns ? The difficulty is that which funds are X-rated and which non-X-rated ( i.e. rated G = good or PG = pretty good ) , is known only in hindsight whereas what you need is foresight . As everyone will tell you , past performance does not guarantee future results . As someone ( John Bogle ? ) said , when you invest in a mutual fund , you are in the position of a rower in rowboat : you can see where you have been but not where you are going . In summary , implementation of your strategy needs a good crystal ball to look into the future . There is no such things as a guaranteed bond fund . They also have risks though not necessarily the same as in a stock mutual fund . You need to have a Plan B in mind in case your chosen mutual fund takes a longer time than expected to return the 10 % gain that you want to use to trigger profit-taking and investment of the gain into a low-risk bond fund , and also maybe a Plan C in case the vagaries of the market cause your chosen mutual fund to have negative return for some time . What is the exit strategy ?
does it still count as a capital gain or loss ? Yes . Is it essentially treated like you sold the stock at the price of the buy-out ? Yes . Do you still get a 1099-B from your broker ? Yes .
Shareholders of Monsanto will get the money from Bayer . Shareholders are independent people or entities . Think of Monsanto as a thing that shareholders had . This thing is now being purchased by Bayer
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
Yes , you will need to pay capital gains tax in MA for that transaction . Here 's how " <URL> " is defined in MA . It short , it follows the Federal definitions for most cases , including yours . Note that MA follows the Federal rules with regards to the <URL> ( exclusion of gains on the sale of principal residence ) .
When the city declared eminent domain , they should have compensated you for the portion of the land that they took . You should have had to pay capital gains on that when it was taken . Should have been something like ( money received ) - ( fraction of land taken x $ 10,000 ) . Now you would pay capital gains based on your reduced basis . That would be something like ( 2 x $ 1,000,000 ) - [ ( 1 - fraction of land taken ) x $ 10,000 ] . I 'm saying " something like " because in a real situation you may be able to include other costs in your cost basis to the extent they were costs necessary to the completion of the purchase . There 's also the possibility that the land is not equally valuable , in which case you might need to make a correction to account for that .
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
I think you 're misunderstanding how tax brackets work . If you make $ 1 more and that bumps you into a higher bracket , only THAT particular dollar will be taxed at the higher tax bracket rate ... Not your entire income . Short term capital gains are treated as income . Long term capital gains have a special tax rate currently .
You pay taxes on capital gains when you realize your gains by selling the investment property . Also , in the US , taxes on capital gains are computed at special rates depending on your current income level , and so when you realize your gains two years from now , you will pay taxes on the gains at the special rate then applicable to your income level for the year of sale . Remember also that the US Congress can change the tax laws at any time between now and the time you sell your stocks , and so the rates you are looking at now may have changed too .
No , because you did n't lose anything . When you exercise ISO " at loss " you 're buying stock without a discount , that 's it .
The question is asking for a European equivalent of the so-called " Couch Potato " portfolio . " Couch Potato " portfolio is defined by the two URLs provided in question as , A 50:50 allocation of assets between a long position in an stock fund ; and a long position in a fixed-income index fund . Holding these two long positions for five years at a minimum , and taking no other action besides re-balancing back to a 50:50 ratio of asset value at some periodic interval of a year or maybe six months . Criteria for fund composition Fixed-income : Regardless of country or supra-national market , the fixed-income fund should have holdings throughout the entire length of the yield curve ( most available maturities ) , as well as being a mix of government , municipal ( general obligation ) , corporate and high-yield bonds . Equity : The common equity position should be in one equity market index fund . It should n't be a DAX-30 or CAC-40 or DJIA type fund . Instead , you want a combination of growth and value companies . The fund should have as many holdings as possible , while avoiding too much expense due to transaction costs . You can determine how much is too much by comparing candidate funds with those that are only investing in highly liquid , large company stocks . Why it is easier for U.S. and Canadian couch potatoes It will be easier to find two good funds , at lower cost , if one is investing in a country with sizable markets and its own currency . That 's why the Couch Potato strategy lends itself most naturally to the U.S.A , Canada , Japan and probably Australia , Brazil , South Korea and possibly Mexico too . In Europe , pre-EU , any of Germany , France , Spain , Italy or the Scandinavian countries would probably have worked well . The only concern would be ( possibly ) higher equity transactions costs and certainly larger fixed-income buy-sell spreads , due to smaller and less liquid markets other than Germany . These costs would be experienced by the portfolio manager , and passed on to you , as the investor . For the EU couch potato Remember the criteria , especially part 2 , and the intent as described by the Couch Potato name , implying extremely passive investing . You want to choose two funds offered by very stable , reputable fund management companies . You will be re-balancing every six months or a year , only . That is four transactions per year , maximum . You do n't need a lot of interaction with anyone , but you DO need to have the means to quickly exit both sides of the trade , should you decide , for any reason , that you need the money or that the strategy is n't right for you . I would not choose an ETF from iShares just because it is easy to do online transactions . For many investors , that is important ! Here , you do n't need that convenience . Instead , you need stability and an index fund with a good reputation . You should try to choose an EU based fund manager , or one in your home country , as you 'll be more likely to know who is good and who is n't . Do n't use Vanguard 's FTSE ETF or the equivalent , as there will probably be currency and foreign tax concerns , and possibly forex risk . The couch potato strategy requires an emphasis on low fees with high quality funds and brokers ( if not buying directly from the fund ) . As for type of fund , it would be best to choose a fund that is invested in mostly or only EU or EEU ( European Economic Union ) stocks , and the same for bonds . That will help minimize your transaction costs and tax liability , while allowing for the sort of broad diversity that helps buy and hold index fund investors .
The top long-term capital gains tax rate will rise to 20 % effective 1 Jan , 2011 , unless Congress decides to do something about it before then . ( Will they ? Who knows !! There 's been talk about it , but , well , it 's Congress . They do n't even know what they 're going to do . ) Anyway . The rules about when you can sell stock are mostly concerned with when you can realize a capital loss : if you sell a stock at a loss and then re-buy it for tax purposes within 30 days , it 's a wash sale and not eligible for a deduction . However , I do n't believe this applies to any stocks once you realize a gain - once you 've realized the gain and paid your tax for it , it 's all yours , locked in at whatever rate . Your replacement stock will be subject to short-term capital gains for the next year afterwards , and you might need to be careful with identifying the holding period on different lots of your stock , but I do n't believe there will be any particular trouble . Please do not rely entirely on my advice and consult also with your tax preparer or lawyer . :) And the IRS documentation : <URL> Special Addendum for Nov/Dec 2012 ! Spoiler alert ! Congress did indeed act : they extended the rates , but only temporarily , so now we 're looking at tax hikes starting in 2013 instead , only the new top rate + + will be something like 23.8 % on account of an extra 3.8 % medicare tax on passive earnings ( brought to you via Obamacare legislation ) . But the year and the rates ' specifics aside , same thing still applies . And the Republican house and Democratic senate/President are still duking it out . Have fun . + + 3.8 % surtax applies to the lesser of ( a ) net investment income ( b ) income over $ 200,000 ( $ 250k if married ) . 20 % tax rate applies to people in the 15 % income tax bracket for ordinary income or higher . Additional tax discounts for property held over 5 years may be available . Consult tax law and your favorite tax professional and prepare to be confused .
When you apply for a car loan -- -- they will pull your credit report and perform a " hard inquiry " on your file . This means the inquiry will be noted in your credit report and count against you , slightly . This is perfectly normal . Just do n't apply too many times too soon or it can begin to add up . They will want proof of your income by asking for recent pay stubs . With this information , your income and your credit profile , they will determine the maximum amount of credit they will lend you and at what interest rate . The better your credit profile , the more money they can lend and the lower the rate . If you know the price -- -- that you want financed ( the price of the car minus your down payment ) that is the amount you can apply for and in that case the only factors they will determine are 1 ) whether or not you will be approved and 2 ) at what interest rate you will be approved . While interest rates generally follow the direction of the prime rate as dictated by the federal reserve , there are market fluctuations and variances from one lending institution to the next . Further , different institutions will have different criteria in terms of the amount of credit they deem you worthy of . So in your case -- -- you know the price of the car . Now determine how much you want to put down and take the difference to a bank or credit union . Or , work directly with the dealer . Dealers often give special deals if you finance through them . A common scenario is : 1 ) A person goes to the car dealer 2 ) test drives 3 ) negotiates the purchase price 4 ) the salesman works the numbers to determine your monthly payment through their own bank . Pay attention during that last process . This is also where they can gain leverage in the deal and make money through the interest rate by offering longer loan terms to maximize their returns on your loan . It 's not necessarily a bad thing , it 's just how they have to make their money in the deal . It 's good to know so you can form your own analysis of the deal and make sure they do n't completely bankrupt you . The most important thing -- -- is that you can comfortable afford your monthly payment . The car dealers do n't really know how much you can afford . They will try to determine to the best they can but only you really know . Do n't take more than you can afford . be conservative about it . For example : Think you can only afford $ 300 a month ? Budget it even lower and make yourself only afford $ 225 a month .
You specify how you want your transaction handled when you sell . I think most of online brokers have that option when you sell online . Here is a definition of " Lot Relief Method " from <URL> Definition of ' Lot Relief Method ' A method of computing the cost basis of an asset that is sold in a taxable transaction . There are five major lot relief methods that can be used for this purpose . They include FIFO ( First-In-First-Out ) , LIFO ( Last-In-First-Out ) , Dollar Value LIFO , Specific ID ( a specific lot of securities or assets are chosen to use for the cost basis ) and Average Cost ( the average cost basis of all securities or assets purchased is used ) .
If you invest inside an HSA , it is very similar to investing inside an IRA . Any distributions stay in the HSA . If you sell an investment , the proceeds stay in the HSA . The only way you get any money out of an HSA without penalty before age 65 is to pay for qualified medical expenses . If you still have money in there at age 65 , you can withdraw it without a qualified medical expense , but you have to pay tax on the distributions ( just like with a traditional IRA ) . So , an HSA gives you tax-free gains if you spend it on qualified medical expenses , and tax-deferred gains if you withdraw it after age 65 without a qualified medical expense . <URL> has more details .
The answer is no . A superannuation fund will have it 's own tax return , and any net loses during a financial year will be carried forward to offset superannuation gains in future income years . If you have a SMSF , then the SMSF will have to complete and lodge its own tax return .
An annuity makes sense in a few different scenarios : You need life insurance , but are not insurable . Annuities can come with death benefits and even income streams after your death . The insurance is essentially secured by your lump sum payment . You have a lump sum at retirement and have no confidence in your ability to manage your money . You have a lump sum at retirement or for a dependent and have no confidence in your spouse/dependent 's ability to manage an income stream or heed informed advice . You have a marginal retirement nest egg and an expectation of an exceptionally long lifespan . ( Annuity payments are tied to your death . ) You have alot of money and need a tax shelter for future growth . In general , they are not the best deal around ( and are often ripoffs ) , and will almost certainly be a bad deal if pitched by a tax preparer , insurance salesman , etc. . Keep in mind that any " guarantees " offered are guarantees made by an insurance company . The only backing up of that claim in the event of a company failing is protection from your state 's Guaranty Association . ( ie . not the Feds )
end question
start question
Is it possible to estimate individual rate of inflation for a person as against the avg inflation rate for that country ?
Inflation gets a lot of press but people rarely stop to think about how they would measure inflation . Prices do not go up equally for all items in the market . Market prices are ever changing in response to supply , consumer demand , and money devaluation . New money printed by the Fed ( in the US ) may flow into one area of the economy and not affect other areas which would causes certain items to be more inflationary than others . As you mention , different people will have varying levels of exposure to the items that are inflating more rapidly than others . I may have a long commute to work so I 'm more exposed to rising prices in gas . You may live in a city and walk to work so gas prices do not affect you as much . I may be a vegetarian so I 'm not sensitive to meat , pork , and chicken prices . There are also lots of items that I never purchase that are used to calculate the inflation rate . Inflation is not as easy to measure as some think . The only way I know to measure a personal inflation rate would be to track your expenses every month ( by unit - $ per 16 oz of bread , $ per gallon of gas , etc. ) . If you see your personal inflation rate rising faster than the government rate then you know you are more exposed to inflation ( at least according to the government 's way of measuring inflation - which uses <URL> , geometrically weighted averages , <URL> , and other political magic ) . In short , if your expenses do not match the CPI expense distribution ( see chart ) then you will not have the same level of exposure to the government reported inflation .
AFAIK , you ca n't get the lock until you submit the application .
<URL> . Unfortunately , I 'm on cold medicine so guessing was the only way I got to the answer , but I guessed right on the first try :) . However , <URL> : The following formula is used to calculate the fixed monthly payment ( P ) required to fully amortize a loan of L dollars over a term of n months at a monthly interest rate of c. [ If the quoted rate is 6 % , for example , c is .06 / 12 or .005 ] . P = L [ c ( 1 + c ) n ] / [ ( 1 + c ) n - 1 ]
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
The actual answer , as it turns out , is that nobody will even look at refinancing the loan on a car 8 years old . 8 years is apparently the cutoff point for " too old to get a loan " . I could get a loan when it was 7 , when I bought the car used , but ca n't refinance six months later . ( in my case , I 've had to juggle my medical bills around and work on consolidating my student loans so I can pay off the car loan faster . I 'm also looking at increasing my income . )
You can certainly ( belatedly ) use the backdoor ( assuming you have no money in pre-tax IRAs of course ) . Your terminology is wrong . A " backdoor " Roth IRA contribution involves making a Traditional IRA contribution and then making a conversion from Traditional IRA to Roth IRA . You recharacterized a Roth IRA contribution into a Traditional IRA contribution , so now you have the first step . Now all you need to do is convert the Traditional IRA into Roth IRA . You can certainly do this now ( or any later time , but earlier the better ) . Note that because of the time gap between the contribution and the conversion , there may be earnings made during this time , which will need to be taxed on conversion , which would not have happened had you done the two steps ( contribution and conversion ) together initially .
I wrote about the dynamic of why either of a lower or higher exchange rate would be good for economies in <URL> A strong currency allows consumers to import goods cheaply from the rest of the world . A weak currency allows producers to export goods cheaply to the rest of the world . People are both consumers and producers . Clearly , there have to be trade-offs . Strong or weak mean relative to Purchasing Power Parity ( i.e. you can buy more or less of an equivalent good with the same money ) . Governments worrying about unemployment will try and push their currencies weaker relative to others , no matter the cost . There will be an inflationary impact ( imported inputs cost more as a currency weakens ) but a country running a major surplus ( like China ) can afford to subsidise these costs .
Do n't ever , ever , ever let someone else handle your money , unless you want somebody else have your money . Nobody can guarantee a return on stocks . That 's utter bullshit . Stock go up and down according to market emotions . How can your guru predict the market 's future emotions ? Keep your head cool with stocks . Only buy when you are ' sure ' you are not going to need the money in the next 10 years . Buy obligations before stocks , invest in ' defensive ' stocks before investing in ' aggressive ' stocks . Keep more money in obligations and defensive stock than in aggressive stocks . See how you can do by yourself . Before buying ( or selling ) anything , think about the risks , the market , the expert 's opinion about this investment , etc. . Set a target for selling ( and adjust the target according to the performance of the stock ) . Before investing , try to learn about investing , really . I 've made my mistakes , you 'll make yours , let 's hope they 're not the same :)
EDIT : After reading one of the comments on the original question , I realized that there is a much more intuitive way to think about this . If you look at it as a standard PV calculation and hold each of the cashflows constant . Really what 's happening is that because of inflation the discount rate is n't the full value of the interest rate . Really the discount rate is only the portion of the interest rate above the inflation rate . Hence in the standard perpetuity PV equation r becomes the interest rate less the inflation rate which gives you . That seems like a much better way to get to the answer than all the machinations I was originally trying . Original Answer : I think I finally figured this out . The general term for this type of system in which the payments increase over time is a gradient series annuity . In this specific example since the payment is increasing by a percentage each period ( not a constant rate ) this would be considered a geometric gradient series . According to <URL> the formula for the present value of a geometric gradient series of payments is : Where is the present value of this series of cashflows . is the initial payment for period 1 ( i.e. the amount you want to withdraw adjusted for inflation ) . is the gradient or growth rate of the periodic payment ( in this case this is the inflation rate ) is the interest rate is the number of payments This is almost exactly what I was looking for in my original question . The only problem is this is for a fixed amount of time ( i.e. n periods ) . In order to figure out the formula for a perpetuity we need to find the limit of the right side of this equation as the number of periods ( n ) approaches infinity . Luckily in this equation n is already well isolated to a single term : . And since we know that the interest rate , i , has to be greater than the inflation rate , g , the limit of that factor is 0 . So after replacing that term with 0 our equation simplifies to the following : Note : I do n't do this stuff for a living and honestly do n't have a fantastic finance IQ . It 's been a while since I 've done any calculus or even this much algebra so I may have made an error in the math .
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
The European Central Bank 's Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices was set at 100 in 2005 . In December 2010 , the most recent month for which it 's available , it was 111.3 . So $ 1000 in 2005 would buy you the same amount of stuff as $ 1113 would now . Source : <URL>
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
I think you should really start a limited company for this . It 'll be a lot simpler to spread the income over multiple years if your business and you have completely separate identities . You should also consult an accountant , if only once to understand the basics of how to approach this . Having a limited company would also mean that if it has financial problems , you do n't end up having to pay the debts yourself . With a separate company , you would keep any money raised within the company initially and only pay it to yourself as salary over the three years , so from an income tax point of view you 'd only be taxed on it as you received it . The company would also pay for project expenses directly and there would n't be any income tax to pay on them at all . You would have to pay other taxes like VAT , but you could choose to register for VAT and then you 'd be able to reclaim VAT on the company 's expenses but would have to charge VAT to your customers . If you start making enough money ( currently # 82,000 / year ) you have to register for VAT whether you want to or not . The only slight complication might be that you could be subject to corporation tax on the surplus money in the first year because it might seem like a profit . However , given that you would presumably have promised something to the funders over a three year period , it should be possible to record your promises as a " liability " for " unearned income " in the company accounts . In effect you 'd be saying " although there 's still # 60,000 in the bank , I have promised to spend it on the crowdfunded thing so it 's not profit " . Again you should consult an accountant at least over the basics of this .
You ca n't use APR to compare loans with different periods . The rate on the 5/1 Jumbo ARM has a lower APR because the government does not allow the lender to use the initial/teaser rate to calculate the APR for the entire loan . ( This is to address misleading terms where the first payment is at 0.1 % , then pops up to a higher rate . ) So , the lender calculates the APR based on the current rate of the underlying index , which is lower than the initial rate offered by the lender . They do this because they do n't have a crystal ball to project the LIBOR ( or some other ) rate index 5 years in the future . Unless your crystal ball is telling you that you are absolutely going to be moving in 5-7 years , AND you have a big downpayment , it 's probably crazy to sign up for an ARM in 2011 .
Why not just get another credit card and transfer the balance ? Many of them will give you special perks like x months of no interest for doing so . Also , once you call to actually cancel the card you will see for sure whether they really have any power to negotiate rates . From their perspective 15 % APR is more than 0 % APR which is what they 'd get if they lose your business .
This is definitely a scam . Do n't reply to the email at all . Do n't forward it or save it . Just mark it as spam/junk in your email client and delete it . These emails are known as <URL> or " dead customer scams " , and there are several variations on this theme . For example : Someone will email you claiming that they need you to stand in as the next-of-kin in order to access some money . They 'll probably ask you to send them various fees , e.g. for processing , bribes , taxes , etc. and in return , they promise you a cut of the funds . Obviously , there is no money . They 're trying to scam you out of money or personal information ( which they might use to impersonate you and get more money from you ) . They might tell you that 90 % of the funds transferred will go to you , while 10 % will go to the manager . They 'll send you a personal check , money order , or even a legitimate-looking cashier check , etc. from a foreign bank and ask you to send them a personal check to the manager ( or some " family member " of the manager ) . They cash your personal check , while the check/order they sent you bounces when it reaches the issuing bank . Not only do they have your money , they also have a check with your personal information , e.g. name , address , bank account numbers , etc. , on it . These are extremely common scams . The safest route is simply to completely ignore the email and delete it immediately . If you have already replied to the email but have n't sent any personal information , everything I said above still applies . Ignore all further emails from them and delete them immediately . Your email address may receive more spam in the future because by replying , they know that you either have a weak spam filter or are more likely to be fooled by such scams . Regardless , ignore all further emails , mark them as spam/junk in your email client if possible , and delete them immediately . If you did send any personal information in a reply , monitor all of your bank accounts , credit cards , credit reports , etc. and check for any fraudulent activity . Notify your bank , credit card company , etc. immediately if you see anything remotely suspicious . Also , never reply to an email like this again . If you have any doubts about an email , ask about it here before doing anything . DumbCoder made an <URL> too : Remember when somebody offers you free money , you should ask yourself what have you done to deserve it and that too from a person , about whom you know nothing about .
It depends on the terms of the deposit and for what security one is applying the rate to . All costs must be taken into account , and a deposit account may be too slow to apply to derivatives . For equities , the most honest net risk free rate should be applied . As an example , Peter Lynch has a rule of thumb that the only time one should n't be in equities is when their average yield is lower than Treasury yields . For shorter term investments , one year or less , the best liquid net rate should be used as the risk free rate . This is because the valid application of the risk free rate for investment decisions should be the best risk free rate available because marginal opportunities can be more precisely screened . Liquidity is less of a concern for a slow moving investor , but if one 's active , yet the money is tied up in liquidation then the cost of that risk free rate rises in terms of the opportunity cost . If one is trying to price derivatives , the question becomes more complicated because a higher risk free rate implies a high priced option . If the rate is too high , implied volatility will veer too far from statistical volatility so most likely is n't the real risk free rate . All in all , truly risk free assets do not exist , and their approximates are approximately equal in net yield , but there are times where a more precise selection can improve results . CAPM For CAPM , the best risk free rate is the highest deemed risk free , so in this case , if deposits are outpaying Treasuries then it is surely the best , but it must also be cost adjusted . The cost to have one 's money potentially tied up in a bank collapse needs to be accounted for . From my understanding , this process even during the worst since the Great Depression in the United States paid quickly , so if Canada 's is at least as fast as that , the rate can go unadjusted . If these special accounts charge fees for early withdrawal then that must be taken into account as well . CAPM assumes that a security with higher albeit correlated swings to the market is a superior investment . That correlated variance is applied to the market return less the risk free rate because a risk free rate is assumed to have no variance . If it is indeed true that the risk free rate should be an alternative 's higher rate instead , less return will be multiplied by beta , so marginal returners will need higher betas to remain competitive , according to the theory . It should be noted that Fama &amp; French 's initial claims about beta were disowned after practitioners failed to beat the market . They currently claim that P/B and beta explain all excess returns . Needless to say , there has n't been a long line of practitioners trying to win with that theory this time .
Let 's say we have an investment with a 12 % gross rate , compounded monthly . We invest a million pounds . That works out to a 1 % rate per month . So after twelve months of compounding , we have a number that is 12.682503 % higher than the original . So we might say that our AER is 12.7 % . If we had simply multiplied our original amount by 1.127 , we would have almost gotten the right answer . Note that your actual bank may handle rounding differently . Also , 12 % is clearly a ridiculous interest rate . I picked it for easy division and multiplication , not realism . Similarly , compounding is more likely to be daily than monthly . But I 'm way too lazy to write out 366 lines of investment numbers . And of course I do n't actually have a million pounds to invest . I just did n't want to round off after just a couple digits . Any taxes would have been paid out of a separate account or perhaps this is some kind of tax free account . Again , purely for convenience .
end question
start question
When do I need life insurance ?
Here 's an easy 2 question test : ( 1 ) Is there anyone who relies on your income for their general welfare ? ( 2 ) Is it worth the premium amount to you to make sure they are n't left out in the cold ? If you can answer yes to both questions , buy ( term ) life insurance .
I 'm assuming that you 're in the US . In that case , the answer is that it depends on how your company set up its reimbursement plan . The IRS recognizes " accountable " and " nonaccountable " plans . Accountable plans have to meet certain requirements . Anything else is nonaccountable . If you are reimbursed according to an accountable plan , this is not income and should not be reported to the IRS at all . If you are reimbursed under a nonaccountable plan , then this is income but you might be able to get a deduction on your tax return if you itemize . Most established companies have accountable plans for normal business expenses . More detail from IRS : <URL>
My experience with leaving a job and COBRA coverage matches your understanding . Approximately 3 weeks after my last day I received the paperwork , the deadline for completing the paperwork was 45 days after the end of the insurance coverage . Therefore I had coverage with the new employer for several weeks before I had to decide if I retroactively needed the COBRA coverage . Because my family did n't have any major medical issues during that window I never had to purchase the coverage . I have used the same logic during my lat 3 job changes . Though now with the Affordable care Act if you needed coverage the national or state exchange is another source of insurance that you may have .
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
Having seen the process of reporting and dealing with stolen checks I would pay the fee and , very truthfully , I would do everything in my power to avoid getting checks at all . Many of the banks now offer online interfaces that allow you to provide the payee information and they will send a printed check on your behalf , which is much much safer . If someone steals a book of your checks multiple things have to be done and the process is ongoing and painful . This is by no means a complete list , but it shows how painful this can be . Close the bank account ( And change and direct deposit or autopay setups ) Report to ChexSystems ( reporting agency for checking accounts ) Fill out a fraud report for every stolen check that gets used Fill out a fraud report for every bad check of someone else 's that gets logged against your account We closed the bank account within 15 minutes of the checks being stolen and still multiple checks got through , both written directly against the account as well as the thieves cashing other people 's stolen checks against the account since they new the account number . Several times they were able to do this within the bank , even though the account had already been closed so it 's a major problem if your checks disappear , and if you do n't have a way to track them then you 'll be very late in realizing that they 're stolen . Additionally this bank ( not sure if this is common with others ) insisted on paying the stolen money back into the closed account , instead of into a new account . This allowed the thieves to steal the same money several times over , forcing us through the weeks long process of reporting the fraud and dealing with the bank 's fraud investigators again .
Context : My parents overseas ( Japan ) sent me a little over $ 100,000 to cover an expensive tuition payment and moderate living expenses in 2014 . They are not US residents , Green card holders or citizens . They did not remit the tuition payment directly to the school . I am a resident ( for tax ) . This is enough to answer yes . That 's basically the set of requirements for filing : you received > $ 100K from a non-US person and you yourself are a US person . You have to report it , and unless it is taxable income - it is a gift . Taxable income is reported on the form 1040 , gifts are reported on the form 3520 . The fact that in Japan it is not considered a gift is irrelevant . Gift tax laws vary between countries , some ( many ) do n't have gift taxes at all . But the reporting requirement is based on the US law and the US definition of " gift " . As I said above , if it is not a gift per the US law , then it is taxable income ( and then you report all of it regardless of the amount and pay taxes ) . Had they paid directly to the institution , you would n't need to count it as income/gift to you because you did n't actually receive the money ( so no income ) and it went directly to cover your qualified education expenses ( so no gift ) , but this is not the case in your situation . Whether or not this will be reported by the IRS back to Japan - I do n't know , but it was probably already reported to the authorities in Japan by the banks through which the transfers went through . As to whether it will trigger an audit - does n't really matter . It was , most likely , reported to the IRS already by the receiving banks in the US , so not reporting it on your tax return ( either as income or on form 3520 ) may indeed raise some flags .
Whole Life is just an insurance product and an investment product wrapped into a single package . The only advantage is that since you 're forced to make payments to maintain the insurance , you 're forced to invest . It 's really just the " Christmas Club " or payroll-deduction idea , though it tries to claim otherwise . If you 're unable to make yourself set aside money for the future without that pressure , this advantage may have some value . Otherwise , probably not . And there are significant disadvantages . You 're giving up the ability to control your own investments , and paying for the convenience of not having to ( or being able to ) think about them . Not just in the agent 's commission , but in paying a relatively high ongoing rate for the investment " brokerage " service -- and keeping those fees low would make a significant difference in actual rate of return , which compounded over the years can make a large difference in actual earnings . There 's no free lunch . The insurance companies offer this because it makes a profit for them . That profit can ONLY come out of your pocket .
The form is just for your records . You do not need to adjust your tax return . From the article " <URL> " : Form 5498 : IRA Contributions Information reports your IRA contributions to the IRS . Your IRA trustee or issuer -- not you -- is required to file this form with the IRS by May 31 . You wo n't find this form in TurboTax , nor do you file it with your tax return . The copy you receive in the mail is a copy for your records . It 's a good idea to verify that the amount reported on the form ( box 1 ) matches what you actually contributed .
Umbrella policies really exist for peace of mind irrespective of how wealthy you are imho . If you 're happy with the coverage your home owner 's and / or car insurance offers and / or happy with the odds of an event occurring that would hold you liable for ( significantly ) more than the amount you 're covered for , you do n't need it . If on the other hand the " what if " keeps you awake at night , you probably do need it . I do n't drive often , and rent , so am not terribly exposed and do not currently have an umbrella policy . If I did own a car and a house I probably would take one out .
Does it make any sense to open another account , just to get the cash back ? This depends on several things , primarily how much you spend on your card . Work out the math . If you spend $ 100 a month , then you would only be getting $ 1.00 a month back , which would n't be worth having the new card . Also , if you are taking any penalties for being late , you 're better off cutting the credit cards all together . Interest ( often at 15 % or more ) will quickly outpace any money you would be getting back . Would it be smart to cancel the Visa if I do ? If you can use the new card everywhere , yes . This prevents you from possible non-usage charges , the paperwork associated with the card , and possible card misuse .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Most of the points by MrChrister are valid . I ca n't say much for Philippines , however there is a reason for one to go with individual insurance from my experience in India . Most of the insurance require you to stay with them for a period of 3 yrs before some of the other illness are covered under insurance . In this case it makes sense to continue for a single insurance with an insurer of your choice . Sometimes group insurance waive off or reduce the minimum period for some critical illness , you may need to check if there is any such clause in your employees insurance . Most of the company insurance is for a small amount . With rising medical costs this amount may not be sufficeint.Having your own insurance adds to a higher level of cover . For example if your employer has covered you for 100,000 and you have additional 100,000 on your own , and if you get hospitalized for an amount of 150,000 you can still get this covered as your overall limit is now 200,000 . Continuity Clause : Most of the insurance require you to prove that the illness is contracted during the priod of coverage and in certain cases this would be difficult to prove and one could be denied . For example my friend had a fall and a ligament tear , which he ignored for sometime . During this time he also changed jobs and was on other companies Medical Insurance policy . He had to later undergo a surgery to rectify this , but was n't paid because the doctor mentioned that this was pre-existing and could ' nt date this . Having a continious personal insurance will ensure these cases are avoided . Altough one can buy insurance when one is out of job , most of the time one is averse to spending / investing and one ends up not buying an insurance and the risk of this can turn out to be high .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
From the IRS instructions for <URL> : Penalty for Not Filing If you are required to file Form 8606 to report a nondeductible contribution to a traditional IRA for 2010 , but do not do so , you must pay a $ 50 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause . Overstatement Penalty If you overstate your nondeductible contributions , you must pay a $ 100 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause .
Sometimes the insurance company will require the individual to get a physical before setting the rates for a policy . they then can put the applicant into a risk pool based on existing or past health problems , lifestyle , blood pressure , cholesterol , along with age and sex . When an employer offers for free life insurance policy the insurer does n't require a physical they just assume that you will fit into the general pool . Some people will be better than average , and others will be worse , but it will even out . some companies insurers do require physicals if you go beyond the free level , or want to increase the coverage . If an organization is offering a group policy , that means that they have negotiated a deal with an insurer . Is it a better deal ? That depends on if you individual policy is in the high risk pool , If it is the group policy might be cheaper . Is it a better deal will also depend on the length of the term ; the maximum amount you can get through the plan ; can it be cancelled ; and how much is of the fee is going to the organization .
You should ask a customer service rep how much you 'll net if you close the account . There will probably be a hefty surrender fee . What you get back should n't be taxable as its a return of your own money , not a gain .
end question
start question
Am I considered in debt if I pay a mortgage ?
The statistic you cited comes from the Federal Reserve Board 's Survey of Consumer Finances , a survey that they do every three years , most recently in 2013 . This was reported in the <URL> . They list the percentage of Americans with any type of debt as 74.5 in 2013 , down slightly from 74.9 in 2010 . The Bulletin also has a table with a breakdown of the types of debt that people have , and primary residence mortgages are at the top of the list . So the answer is yes , the 75 % statistic includes Americans with home mortgages . * The bigger question is , are you really " in debt " if you have a home mortgage ? The answer to that is also yes . When you take out a mortgage , you really do own the house . You decide who lives there , you decide what changes you are going to make to it , and you are responsible for the upkeep . But the mortgage debt you have is secured by the house . This means that if you refuse to pay , the bank is allowed to take possession of the house . They do n't even get the " whole " house , though ; they will sell it to recoup their losses , and give you back whatever equity you had in the house after the loan is satisfied . Is it good debt ? Many people think that if you are borrowing money to purchase an appreciating asset , the debt is acceptable . With this definition , a car loan is bad , credit card debt is very bad , and a home mortgage might be okay . Even Dave Ramsey , radio host and champion of the debt-free lifestyle , is not opposed to home mortgages . Home mortgages allow people to purchase a home that they would otherwise be unable to afford . * Interestingly , according to the <URL> , credit card balances were only included as debt for the survey purposes if there was a balance after the most recent bill was paid , not including purchases made after the bill . So people that do not carry a balance on their credit card were not considered " in debt " in this statistic .
From personal experience , the longest Rate Lock window I 've seen is 90 days . However , most lenders offer rates that can be locked in for 15/30/45 / 60 days . Keep in mind , the longer the Rate Lock timeframe the higher the rate comparatively . This is a result of the risk the lender is incurring to guarantee you that rate for that period of time . Effectively , the lender runs the risk of rates increasing ( the cost of money increasing ) while still having to honor their contractual obligation to you .
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
The problem would not only be that of Kyle but also that of American Express . When Kyle pays by credit card , American Express pays the bills out of their pockets on his behalf and then forwards the bill to Kyle . The issuer of a credit card takes the risk that the holder of the card wo n't pay the credit card bill . In practice there are safeguards in place which prevent a company like AE to pay such huge sums in one day through an automated process . Credit card companies have sophisticated algorithms to determine unusual spending patterns and block any transactions which appear unusual . Also , after a few billions their bank will likely block them and prevent them from paying any more bills . But let 's play along and pretend these safeguards would n't exist . That means after Kyle 's spending spree , American Express will be trillions in debt , with their main debitor being a 10 year old boy who wo n't ever be able to pay . Kyle will have to declare personal bankruptcy . There are various variants of bakruptcy in the US , but they basically all boil down to him paying everything he can pay ( not much considering that he is 10 ) and then defaulting on his debt . Afterwards he is debt-free . That means the debt is now that of American Express . American Express will not be able to pay that debt with their bank ( s ) either , so they will have to declare bankruptcy and default on their debt too . This domino effect passes the burden on to the banks which can not carry a trillion-level debt either . A bank going bankrupt is a serious issue because it means they can not pay back any of the money in the saving accounts hold by companies or private people with them . So the problem would return to those people Kyle wanted to help in the first place . Also , the collapse of one bank will often result in the collapse of further banks , resulting in a collapse spiral destroying the whole world-wide finance system . Nothing would be gained .
Yes you are eligible even if your spouse is enrolled in Medicare . As long as YOU are not enrolled in Medicare you can contribute to an HSA . You may use the money to pay the cost of qualified medical expenses for you and your spouse . Here are some resources with additional information : <URL> <URL>
I strongly recommend that you talk to an accountant right away because you could save some money by making a tax payment by January 15 , 2014 . You will receive Forms 1099-MISC from the various entities with whom you are doing business as a contractor detailing how much money they paid you . A copy will go to the IRS also . You file a Schedule C with your Form 1040 in which you detail how much you received on the 1099-MISC forms as well as any other income that your contracting business received ( e.g. amounts less than $ 600 for which a 1099-MISc does not need to be issued , or tips , say , if you are a taxi-driver running your own cab ) , and you can deduct various expenses that you incurred in generating this income , including tools , books , ( or gasoline ! ) etc that you bought for doing the job . You will need to file a Schedule SE that will compute how much you owe in Social Security and Medicare taxes on the net income on Schedule C . You will pay at twice the rate that employees pay because you get to pay not only the employee 's share but also the employer 's share . At least , you will not have to pay income tax on the employer 's share . Your net income on Schedule C will transfer onto Form 1040 where you will compute how much income tax you owe , and then add on the Social Security tax etc to compute a final amount of tax to be paid . You will have to pay a penalty for not making tax payments every quarter during 2013 , plus interest on the tax paid late . Send the IRS a check for the total . If you talk to an accountant right away , he/she will likely be able to come up with a rough estimate of what you might owe , and sending in that amount by January 15 will save some money . The accountant can also help you set up for the 2014 tax year during which you could make quarterly payments of estimated tax for 2014 and avoid the penalties and interest referred to above .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
I would talk to your HMRC tax office they do have guidance on this issue here <URL>
I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it is going to take 15 years to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to paying down debt . Cut expenses by going out to eat less , and keeping spending to the bare necessities . You might even consider getting a second job , just for paying down the debt . If that is n't enough , consider selling off some assets . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( excluding maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 years . Once the only debt you have is a home mortgage , then its time to look at putting money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The costs for doing so are nearly always too great .
Ideally you would negotiate a car price without ever mentioning : your intentions around financing whether or not you work for the car company whether you 've recently graduated any trade-in you might be bringing or lease you need to get out of And other factors that affect the price . You and the dealer would then negotiate a true price for the car , followed by the application of rebates , followed by negotiating for the loan if there is to be one . In practice this rarely happens . The sales rep asks point blank what rebates you qualify for ( by asking get-to-know-you questions like where you work or if you served in the armed forces - you may not realize that these are do-you-qualify-for-a-rebate questions ) before you 've even chosen a model . They take that into account right from the beginning , along with whether they 'll make a profit lending you money , or have to spend something to subsidize your zero percent loan . However unlike your veteran 's status , your loan intentions are changeable . So when you get to the end you can ask if the price could be improved by paying cash . Or you could try putting the negotiated price on a credit card , and when they do n't like that , ask for a further discount to stop you from using the credit card and paying cash .
The confusion comes from ambiguity in popular belief -- that businesses are required to accept x_y_x as payment . In reality , a business can state the terms of a transaction to their pleasure . On the other hand , debt is different -- no lender can refuse cash or other legal tender for repayment of debt . Sometimes , people try to split hairs and argue " Well , if I eat a steak and I owe the restaurant $ 100 , they should have to accept my $ 100 as tender for the debt of my meal . " Not true . The restaurant is n't giving you a line of credit , they 're billing you after services rendered , and your payment is due on their terms .
No . Your taxes on your job will not be affected . However , you will have to pay taxes on your investment income , and that may be taxed at a higher rate than you were expecting . Think of it this way : each dollar you earn has a certain tax rate associated with it , so you give a percentage of that dollar to the government . As the number of dollars you earn goes up , so does the percentage taken from each additional dollar . Thinking this way , wages get counted first , then investment income . As a result , investment income does n't affect the tax rate on your wages . But your wages do affect the tax rate on your investment income . Check the tax worksheet on page 15 of the instructions for Schedule D . This is where you will compute your tax . It 's complex , but will give you the right answer . Note that the additional investment income may possibly reduce or preclude various tax benefits like the child tax credit .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
You have a loan . You can probably assume you 're going to have to repay that loan , every dollar . And every dollar that 's outstanding on that loan costs you interest . So assuming you 're not hit by any pre-payment penalty , any dollar that you pay down on your house right now saves you a compounded R % a year , where R is your mortgage rate . It does n't really matter whether you 're planning to sell it in a few years or not . If you pay $ N , you 'll save the interest + $ N taken from the sale price and sent to the bank when you sell the house and move ( though you might get a tax deduction on the interest ) . If you have a better place to park your money and earn a decent rate of return , it would be worth it to do that instead of paying down the mortgage . If you had another loan with higher interest rates , that 's probably a better loan to pay off . If you can spend some of all of it on something that 's actually genuinely worth R % of its purchase price a year ( plus whatever the wear and tear takes away from its value , if anything ) then spend it on that instead ; that 'd be a better investment . ( For instance , investments in the stock market may offer better returns . However , that 's risky ! Observe that you ca n't lose money paying down your mortgage , and that Safety is usually relatively expensive these days , so it 's not a bad deal . But if you 're talking about using it for long-term retirement savings that are tax-advantaged to boot , that 's another matter . ) If you already have ample emergency funds and were just planning on putting the money into a savings account to rot at ~ 1.35 % taxable interest , it 's definitely worth it to pay down your balance now , unless you 're about to sell ( so the savings are slight ) and it 's a real inconvenience .
No , but you should be able to eventually claim a UK state pension built up during your stay in the UK . Note for a full state pension you need 30 years contributions and only full years count . Note there is also the Additional State Pension based on your NI contributions . There is no fixed amount like the basic State Pension . The following page might be of help <URL>
Usually , you take this to your credit card issuer . I do n't know what the Argentinian laws are on the matter , but in all the places I do know what the laws are - they 're the same . You dispute the charge with your credit card issuer claiming that the product is not as advertised . The issuer will contact the merchant account provider of the company you bought from and transmit your complaint to them . The company will have to respond , and in the end your credit card issuer will have to decide whether they agree that your claim is valid , or not . If they side with you , they issue a charge back and refund your money ( the merchant account provider for that company will charge their account ) . Since you did in fact receive a product , you 'll have to show why you think it is not as advertised , so get as much proofs as you can - screenshots , descriptions , ads that you relied upon , etc. . This is called " charge-back " process and is a pretty standard and similar procedure with both Visa and Mastercard .
You may not need all of these , but if you have them , you should have everything the mortgage people will ever ask for . Recent bank statements from all of your banks ( including brokerage accounts ) The last two years of W2 's A copy of your driver 's license A copy of your social security card The last two years of tax returns Your last two paystubs A copy of the signed sales contract A copy of the cancelled check you provided for down payment . If you own more than 25 % of a business , the last two years of tax returns for the business
The more you put down now , the less money you are borrowing . 30yrs of interest adds up . Even paying a small amount at the beginning of the mortgage can turn into a huge savings over the life of the loan . That 's why you 'll find advice to make extra mortgage payments in the beginning . The question is : Do you have a better use for that money ? In particular , do you have any higher-interest debt ( higher APR than your mortgage ) that needs to be paid off ? You generally want to take care of those first . Beyond that can you invest the extra down payment money elsewhere ( eg stock market ) and get a better return than your mortgage rate ? ( do n't forget about taxes on investment profits ) . If so , that money will do more good there .
You can claim a deduction only if all of your business is conducted from the home , i.e. your home is your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The <URL> ( Canada Revenue Agency ) has pretty strict guidelines listed <URL> , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualifies . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other related &amp; allowable home expense deductions has to be pro-rated to be equal to or less than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business is operated out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage is 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expenses ( 120/2 ,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this helps !
You 'll have to talk to your mortgage lender about that , I doubt there is a ' generic ' answer to it . I do currently have a house in another country that I 'm paying a mortgage on , but the lender was n't too happy with that . They still did accept it , but the bigger problem for me is refinancing it as an investment property when you 're not in the country . Also , it probably depends on what your plans are - are you planning to go abroad for a few years , then return ? Emigrate for good ? Rent out the place while you 're gone ? As I can attest to , even with a local agent a house 5000 miles away can be more of a pain in the posterior than you 'd expect it to be .
end question
start question
Is the stock market too risky for long term retirement funds ? Why should a 20 - or 30-something person invest in stocks ?
I would start with long term data . It would show how 40 years worth of stock investing puts the investor so far ahead of the " safe " investor that they can afford to lose half and still be ahead . But - then I would explain about asset allocation , and how the soon to be retired person had better be properly allocated if they were n't all along so that the impact of down years is mitigated . The retiree is still a long term investor as life spans of 90 are common . Look at the long term charts for the major indexes . So long as you average in , reinvest earnings ( dividends ) and stay diversified , you will be ahead . The market is still not where it was at the end of 2001 , but in the decade , our worth has risen from 5X our income to 12.5 X . This was not genius , just a combination of high savings and not panicking .
Personally , I do asset allocation separately for personal investing and for retirement investing , as I the two have vastly different purposes and I have vastly different goals for each . YMMV depending on how you view your non-retirement investments , and how close you are to retirement .
No , at least not noticeably so . The majority of what HFT does is to take advantage of the fact that there is a spread between buy and sell orders on the exchange , and to instantly fill both orders , gaining relatively risk-free profit from some inherent inefficiencies in how the market prices stocks . The end result is that intraday trading of the non-HFT nature , as well as speculative short-term trading will be less profitable , since HFT will cause the buy/sell spread to be closer than it would otherwise be . Buying and holding will be ( largely ) unaffected since the spread that HFT takes advantage of is miniscule compared to the gains a stock will experience over time . For example , when you go to buy shares intending to hold them for a long time , the HFT might cost you say , 1 to 2 cents per share . When you go to sell the share , HFT might cost you the same again . But , if you held it for a long time , the share might have doubled or tripled in value over the time you held it , so the overall effect of that 2-4 cents per share lost from HFT is negligible . However , since the HFT is doing this millions of times per day , that 1 cent ( or more commonly a fraction of a cent ) adds up to HFTs making millions . Individually it does n't affect anyone that much , but collectively it represents a huge loss of value , and whether this is acceptable or not is still a subject of much debate !
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
Found a great article ( with bibliography ) that covers taxation on investment activity by non resident aliens - even covers the special 15 % tax on dividends for Canadian residents . It 's ( dividend tax rate ) generally 30 % for other NRAs ( your 2nd question ) . And it confirmed my suspicion that there are no capital gains taxes for NRAs . ( 1st Q ) Source : <URL>
CFDs should not be used as a buy and hold strategy ( which is risky enough doing with shares directly ) . However , with proper money and risk management and the proper use of stop losses , a medium term strategy is very plausible . I was using CFDs in the past over a short time period of usually between a couple of days to a couple is weeks , trying to catch small swings with very tight stops . I kept getting wipsawed due to my stops being too tight so had too many small loses for my few bigger wins . And yes I lost some money , almost $ 5k in one year . I have recently started a more medium term strategy with wider stops trying to catch trending stocks . I have only recently started this strategy and so far have 2 loses and 3 wins . Just remember that you do get charged a financing fee for holding long position overnight , buy for short position you actually get paid the funding fee for overnight positions . My broker charges the official interest rate + 2.5 % for long positions and pays the official rate - 2.5 % for short positions . So yes CFDs can be used for the longer term as long as you are implementing proper money and risk management and use stop losses . Just be aware of the implications of using margin and all the costs involved .
If you 're referring to investment hedging , then you should diversify into things that would profit if expected event hit . For example alternative energy sources would benefit greatly from increased evidence of global warming , or the onset of peak oil . Preparing for calamities that would render the stock market inaccessible , the answer is quite different . Simply own more of things that people would want than you need . A list of possibilities would include : Non perishable food ( canned , dried , or otherwise ) Weapons and ammunition Medical supplies Hand tools Precious metals are also a way to secure value outside the financial markets , but would not be readily sellable until the immediate calamity had passed . All this should be balanced on an honest evaluation of the risks , including the risk of nothing happening . I 've heard of people not saving for retirement because they do n't expect the financial markets to be available then , but that 's not a risk I 'm willing to take .
Market-makers ( which you term dealers ) earn the bid-ask spread by buying and selling in as short a window as possible , hopefully before the prices have moved too much . It is not riskless . The spread is actually compensation for this risk . From <URL> : The market-maker faces two types of problem . One is an inventory-management problem -- how much stock to hold and at what price to buy and sell . The market-maker earns a bid-ask spread in return for solving this problem since they bear the risk that their inventory loses value . Market-makers face a second , information-management problem . This arises from the possibility of trading with someone better informed about true prices than themselves -- an adverse selection risk . Again , the market-maker earns a bid-ask spread to protect against this informational risk . The bid-ask spread , then , is the market-makers ' insurance premium . It provides protection against risks from a depreciating or mis-priced inventory . As such , it also proxies the " liquidity " of the market -- that is , its ability to absorb buy and sell orders and execute them without an impact on price . A wider bid-ask spread implies greater risk in the sense of the market 's ability to absorb volume without affecting prices . The less liquid an asset is , the more time is likely to pass ( and hence more information likely to arrive ) until someone comes along to take the inventory from the dealer , and the greater is the risk that the price will have changed in the mean time . Since spread is compensation for this risk , ceteris paribus spreads are wider for less liquid assets .
It depends how much risk you 're prepared to accept . The short-term risk-free rate of return at present is something in the vicinity of 0.1 % ( three month US treasuries are currently yielding 0.08 % ) , so anything paying a higher rate on money that 's accessible quickly will involve some degree of risk -- the higher the rate then the higher the risk .
That depends , really . Generally speaking , though - Roth IRAs are THE PLACE for Stock-Market/Mutual-Fund investing . All the off the wall ( or , not so off the wall ) things like Real Estate investments , or buying up gold , or whatever other ideas you hear from people - they may be good or bad or whatnot . But your Roth IRA is maybe not the best place for that sort of thing . The whole philosophy behind IRAs is to deliberately set aside money for the future . Anything reasonable will work for this . Explore interesting investment ideas with today 's money , not tomorrow 's money . That being said - at your age I would go for the riskier options within what 's available . If I were in your situation ( and I have been , recently ) , I would lean toward low-fee mutual funds classified as " Growth " funds . My own personal opinion ( THIS IS NOT ADVICE ) is that Small Cap International funds are the place to be for young folks . That 's a generalized opinion based on my feel for the world , but I do n't think I 'm personally competent to start making specific stock picks . So , mutual funds makes sense to me in that I can select the fund that generally aligns with my sense of things , and assume that their managers will make reasonably sound decisions within that framework . Of course that assumption has to be backed up with reputation of the specific MF company and the comparative performance of the fund relative to other funds in the same sector . As to the generalized question ( how else can you work toward financial stability and independence ) , outside of your Roth IRA : find ways to boost your earning potential over time , and buy a house before the next bubble ( within the next 18 months , I 'm GUESSING ) .
Though it seems unintuitive , you should rationally ignore the past performance of this stock ( including the fact that it 's at its 52-week high ) and focus exclusively on factors that you believe should affect it moving forward . If you think it 's going to go up even further , more than the return on your other options for where to put the money , keep the stock . If you think it 's peaked and will be going down , now 's a good time to sell . To put it another way : if you did n't already have this stock , would you buy it today ? Your choice is just about the same : you can choose between a sum of cash equal to the present market value of the shares , OR the shares . Which do you think is worth more ? You also mentioned that you only have 10 stocks in the portfolio . Some are probably a larger percentage than others , and this distribution may be different than what you want in your portfolio . It may be time to do some <URL> , which could involve selling some shares where your position is too large ( as a % of your portfolio ) and using the proceeds toward one or more categories you 're not as invested in as you would like to be . This might be a good opportunity to increase the <URL> in your portfolio . If part of your reward and motivation for trading is emotional , not purely financial , you could sell now , mark it as a " win , " and move on to another opportunity . Trading based on emotions is not likely to optimize your future balance , but not everybody is into trading or money for money 's sake . What 's going to help you sleep better at night and help boost your quality of life ? If holding the stock will make you stress and regret a missed opportunity if it goes down , and selling it will make you feel happy and confident even if it still goes up more ( e.g. you interpret that as further confirming that you made a good pick in the first place ) , you might decide that the risk of suboptimal financial returns ( from emotion-based trading ) is acceptable . As CQM points out , you could also set a trailing sell order to activate only when the stock is a certain percentage or dollar amount below whatever it peaks at between the time you set the order and the time it fires/expires ; the activation price will rise with the stock and hold as it falls .
It really depends on the answers to two questions : 1 ) How tight is your budget going to be if you have to make that $ 530 payment every month ? Obviously , you 'd still be better off than you are now , since that 's still $ 30 cheaper . But , if you 're living essentially paycheck to paycheck , then the extra flexibility of the $ 400/month option can make the difference if something unforeseen happens . 2 ) How disciplined ( financially ) have you proven you can be ? The " I 'll make extra payments every month " sounds real nice , but many people end up not doing it . I should know , I 'm one of them . I 'm still paying on my student loans because of it . If you know ( by having done it before ) , that you can make that extra $ 130 go out each and every month and not talk yourself into using it on all sorts of " more important needs " , then hey , go for it . Financial flexibility is a great thing , and having that monthly nut ( all your minimum living expenses combined ) as low as possible contributes greatly to that flexibility . Update : Another thing to consider Another thing to consider is what they do with your extra payment . Will they apply it to the principal , or will they treat it as a prepayment ? If they apply it to principal , it 'll be just like if you had that shorter term . Your principal goes down additionally by that extra amount , and the next month , you owe another $ 400 . On the other hand , if they treat it as a prepayment , then that extra $ 130 will be applied to the next month 's bill . Principal stays the same , and the next month you 'll be billed $ 270 . There are two practical differences for you : 1 ) With prepayment , you 'll pay slightly more interest over that 60 months paying it off . Because it 's not amortized into the loan , the principal balance does n't go down faster while the loan exists . And since interest is calculated on the remaining principal balance , end result is more interest than you otherwise would have paid . That sucks , but : 2 ) with the prepayment , consider that at the end of year 2 , you 'd have over 7 months of payments prepaid . So , if some emergency does come up , you do n't have to send them any money at all for 7 months . There 's that flexibility again . :-) Honestly , while this is something you should find out about the loan , it 's really still a wash . I have n't done the math , but with the interest rate , amount of the loan and time frame , I think the extra interest would be pretty minor .
It appears that FDENX charges 0.05 % for its own expenses , but has additional 0.61 % expenses from the underlying funds . This is because , as most target date funds , it does n't invest directly in stocks but rather invests in other Fidelity funds - that also charge expenses . The Pyramis fund may be avoiding these charges by managing it 's assets directly and not through other funds , or by investing in other Pyramis index funds without additional overhead . 0.66 % for a target date fund is quite a lot , I must say .
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
If you are looking for numerical metrics I think the following are popular : Price/Earnings ( P/E ) - You mentioned this very popular one in your question . There are different P/E ratios - forward ( essentially an estimate of future earnings by management ) , trailing , etc. . I think of the P/E as a quick way to grade a company 's income statement ( i.e : How much does the stock cost verusus the amount of earnings being generated on a per share basis ? ) . Some caution must be taken when looking at the P/E ratio . Earnings can be " massaged " by the company . Revenue can be moved between quarters , assets can be depreciated at different rates , residual value of assets can be adjusted , etc. . Knowing this , the P/E ratio alone does n't help me determine whether or not a stock is cheap . In general , I think an affordable stock is one whose P/E is under 15 . Price/Book - I look at the Price/Book as a quick way to grade a company 's balance sheet . The book value of a company is the amount of cash that would be left if everything the company owned was sold and all debts paid ( i.e. the company 's net worth ) . The cash is then divided amoung the outstanding shares and the Price/Book can be computed . If a company had a price/book under 1.0 then theoretically you could purchase the stock , the company could be liquidated , and you would end up with more money then what you paid for the stock . This ratio attempts to answer : " How much does the stock cost based on the net worth of the company ? " Again , this ratio can be " massaged " by the company . Asset values have to be estimated based on current market values ( think about trying to determine how much a company 's building is worth ) unless , of course , mark-to-market is <URL> . This involves some estimating . Again , I do n't use this value alone in determing whether or not a stock is cheap . I consider a price/book value under 10 a good number . Cash - I look at growth in the cash balance of a company as a way to grade a company 's cash flow statement . Is the cash account growing or not ? As they say , " Cash is King " . This is one measurement that can not be " massaged " which is why I like it . The P/E and Price/Book can be " tuned " but in the end the company can not hide a shrinking cash balance . Return Ratios - Return on Equity is a measure of the amount of earnings being generated for a given amount of equity ( ROE = earnings / ( assets - liabilities ) ) . This attempts to measure how effective the company is at generating earnings with a given amount of equity . There is also Return on Assets which measures earnings returns based on the company 's assets . I tend to think an ROE over 15 % is a good number . These measurements rely on a company accurately reporting its financial condition . Remember , in the US companies are allowed to <URL> if approved by the government so be careful . There are <URL> who simply do n't follow the rules and report whatever numbers they like without penalty . There are many others . These are just a few of the more popular ones . There are many other considerations to take into account as other posters have pointed out .
Not all limit orders add liquidity , but all market orders remove liquidity presuming there is liquidity to remove . A liquidity providing order is one that is posted to the limit book . If an order , even a limit order , is filled before being posted to the limit book , it removes liquidity . Liquidity is measured by a balance and abundance of quantities posted on the limit book and the best spread between the lowest ask and the highest bid .
Am I running some risk by restricting myself to ETFs as an investment vehicle ? Yes there are risks here . First , be aware of what strategy are you using with the ETFs as if you invest in 30 or more of them , you may well wind up with a rather confusing combination of funds . Be sure you know what strategy you have for using ETFs with ideas like asset allocation , rebalancing and diversification as some ETFs may not necessarily be that diverse if one gets into the specialized sector ones for example . Is there anything I should pay attention to when selecting ETFs , other than the expense ratio and how the underlying index helps me diversifying ? Be aware of the purpose of the ETF as JoeTaxpayer 's comment on leveraged ETFs is worth noting . How liquid is the ETF , what is the size of the ETF and be aware of various strategies of how indices can be put together as while among US large-cap indices there may not be that many big shifts , in small-caps and a few other areas there may be differences as companies like Russell will re-constitute their indices twice a year while S &amp; P does a bit more management of their indices . The liquidity is how many shares trade each day as if the volume is low then you may run into greater gaps between the share price and the underlying Net Asset Value of the shares as the <URL> is usually done in blocks of 50,000 shares . The size of the ETF is the market capitalization as I could imagine some of the smaller ETFs eventually being shut down . An example here is Merrill Lynch 's HOLDRs product that existed for a while . The index reconstitution is worth noting for a couple of reasons : Purity of style . If a small-cap fund could let its winners run , they would then become mid-caps or large-caps and thus you are n't diversifying in reality . Some people may slice and dice things rather finely and thus one may not be aware of what ETF is covering which market segment . Thus , this is more a about how well does the fund handle style drift . While the same market segment may be covered , there could be different ways to look at this style . For example , there could be ETFs in the small-cap area that deal with the smallest stocks out there compared to others that deal with larger stocks that still make up what could be seen as small-cap stocks by some .
One explanation is that movie patrons are considering their total willingness to pay for the movie experience so that if the ticket price plus the market price of popcorn is less than their willingness to pay ( WTP ) , the theater has an opportunity to extract more consumer surplus by charging higher than market prices for the popcorn ( that is , <URL> ) . There is a working paper on the subject by <URL> , the abstract of which reads : Prices for goods such as blades for razors , ink for printers and concessions at movies are often set well above cost . Theory has shown that this could yield a profitable price discrimination strategy often termed " metering . " The idea is that a customer 's intensity of demand for aftermarket goods ( e.g. the concessions ) provides a meter of how much the customer is willing to pay for the primary good ( e.g. admission ) . If this correlation in tastes for the two goods is positive , a high price on the aftermarket good allows firms to extract a greater total price ( admissions plus concessions ) from higher type customers . This paper develops a simple aggregate model of discrete-continuous demand to motivate how this correlation can be tested using simple regression techniques and readily available firm data . Model simulations illustrate that the regressions can be used to predict whether aftermarket prices should be above , below or equal to their marginal cost . We then apply the approach to box-office and concession data from a chain of Spanish theaters and find that high priced concessions do extract more surplus from customers with a greater willingness to pay for the admission ticket . <URL> make a similar argument in a JPE article . They essentially argue that purchases of things like movie tickets are made by groups ; once individuals are constrained by the group 's choice , the firm has additional market power : We present models in which price discrimination in the context of a two-part price can occur in some competitive markets . Purchases take place in groups , which choose which firms to patronize . While firms are perfectly competitive with respect to groups , they have some market power over individual consumers , who are constrained by their groups ' choices . We find that firms will charge an entry fee that is below marginal cost , and the second part of the price is marked up above marginal cost . The markup not only is positive but increases with the quality of the product . The quote you are looking for is similar , and again attributes the discrepancy to price discrimination . From the Armchair Economist ( p. 159 ) : The purpose of expensive popcorn is not to extract a lot of money from customers . That purpose would be better served by cheap popcorn and expensive movie tickets . Instead , the purpose of expensive popcorn is to extract different sums from different customers . Popcorn lovers , who have more fun at the movies , pay more for their additional pleasure . That is , some people like popcorn more than others . The latter idea is that the movie experience for popcorn lovers is worth more than the sum of its parts : that a movie ticket + popcorn is worth more than either of them separately for some people .
2.47 % is a really , really good rate , doubly so if it 's a fixed rate , and quadruply so if the interest is tax-deductible . That 's about as close to " free money " as you 're ever going to get . Heck , depending on what inflation does over the next few years , it might even be cheaper than free . So if you have the risk tolerance for it , it 's probably more effective to invest the money in the stock market than to accelerate your student loan payoff . You can even do better in the bond market ( my go-to intermediate-term corporate bond fund is yielding nearly 4 % right now . ) Just remember the old banker 's aphorism : Assets shrink . Liabilities never shrink . You can lose the money you 've invested in stocks or bonds , and you 'll still have to pay back the loan . And , when in doubt , you can usually assume you 're underestimating your risks . If you 're feeling up for it , I 'd say : make sure you have a good emergency fund outside of your investment money - something you could live on for six months or so and pay your bills while looking for a job , and sock the rest into something like the <URL> or a similar instrument ( Vanguard 's just my personal preference , since I like their style - and by style , I mean low fees - but definitely feel free to consider alternatives ) . You could also pad your retirement accounts and avoid taxes on any gains instead , but remember that it 's easier to put money into those than take it out , so be sure to double-check the state of your emergency fund .
end question
start question
What happens if a person with life insurance goes missing and is found many years later ?
There are actual cases where this has occurred . In cases where the beneficiary was suspected of knowing that the insured person was alive , they have faced fraud charges . In cases where they appeared to act in good faith , the legal consequences are less severe , but the likelihood of the insurance company to sue for their money back will depend on the circumstances and the amount of the payout . <URL> was a woman who abandoned her family and did n't reappear until 11 years later . The family did n't know where she was , so they probably wo n't end up paying back the relatively small $ 100,000 that they received .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
You should ask a customer service rep how much you 'll net if you close the account . There will probably be a hefty surrender fee . What you get back should n't be taxable as its a return of your own money , not a gain .
What you need will depend on a number of factors that are n't clear from the question . This coverage is simply called " Vacant home insurance " , but not all companies are willing to offer this coverage . Unfortunately , in New York , insurers can also legally drop your standard homeowners ' coverage if they become aware that your property has become vacant for 30 days or more . The Insurer 's Concerns Typically , a " standard " homeowners policy will have an exclusion clause for vacant homes . The insurance company 's concern is that without someone in the home , they will be at risk for break-ins , squatters and vandalism . If you 've ever seen " Flip Men " on Spike , you 'll know this is a serious concern ( great show , by the way ) . They will use a risk model to calculate an estimated risk for the property ( this is why a seasonal vacation home in a sparsely-populated area is often less of a concern than a family home in an urban area ) . If they estimate the risk to be low , some insurance companies will allow to you buy back that exclusion so that vacant properties are covered . In your case , they have probably decided that either : They think the risk of damage that would result in a claim is too high , or They already have too much exposure to vacant homes , or They do n't have the expertise to properly assess the risk , or They are n't in a financial position to cover the extra risk Your Options First , you need to find a company that is comfortable with taking on the extra risk of a vacant home . This will vary quite a bit by location , but the main ones are Farmer 's ( they use the Foremost brand name in New York ) and Castle Rock . There are lots of insurance agencies that also advertise these products , but most of them are middlemen and use one of these two companies to actually write the coverage . Additionally , since this is a specialty policy , make sure you understand all of the details of the policy , and how they vary from a regular policy including : State-specific eligibility requirements for what is legally consided " vacant " Return of Premium - if you sell the house before your coverage ends , will they refund any portion of the premium for the months on which you do n't need coverage ? Policy duration - some companies may only be willing to write short-term policies Variations in covered Perils - some companies do n't cover certain risks you may consider essential ( such as vandalism ) . Make sure you can afford to cover a worst-case scenario before you agree to take on any excluded perils . Cash versus Replacement Value - make sure you know what your reimbursement would be under both scenarios Higher Cost - according to Castle Rock 's website , coverage for vacant properties can be 150 % to 300 % of the cost of a standard homeowners ' policy . Ultimately , you will need to make a decision on how to balance all the costs of maintaining a vacant home versus how much you 'd lose if you were to sell the property quickly but below it 's true market value . How to Reduce your Premium costs These are general tips from the Murray Group 's website ( an independent broker in NY ) on how to lower the additional cost of vacant coverage : Make sure you have a centralized security system including fire alarms installed such that authorities will be notified in the event of a fire or break-in Have deadbolts on every entry point Winterize the house , especially the water pipes to avoid bursts Board up the windows to avoid glass breakage and unauthorized entry Hire a monitoring service to check up on the house and inspect regularly This may sound expensive , but these steps will all reduce the risk of something really bad happening when you 're not there . Additionally , do you know anyone you completely trust ( relative , unemployed friend ) that might want to live in your old house rent-free for a while ? This could work out for you if they are willing to keep the place 100 % clean around the clock so that you can show the house at any time . If you have additional/specific questions , you should be able to find an independent insurance broker in your area that would be willing to advise you on your specific situation for a flat fee . Best of luck with getting the home covered and sold quickly !
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
MD-Tech <URL> : The answer is in your question : derivatives are contracts so are enforced in the same way as any other contract . If the counterparty refuses to pay immediately they will , in the first instance be billed by any intermediary ( Prime Broker etc. ) that facilitated the contract . If they still refuse to pay the contract may stipulate that a broker can " net off " any outstanding payments against it or pay out using deposited cash or posted margins . The contract will usually include the broker as an interested party and so they can , but do n't need to , report a default ( such that this is ) to credit agencies ( in some jurisdictions they are required to by law ) . Any parties to the trade and the courts may use a debt collection agency to collect payments or seize assets to cover payment . If there is no broker or the counterparty still has not paid the bill then the parties involved ( the party to the trade and any intermediaries ) can sue for breach of contract . If they win ( which would be expected ) the counterparty will be made to pay by the legal system including , but not limited to , seizure of assets , enforced bankruptcy , and prison terms for any contempts of court rulings . All of this holds for governments who refuse to pay derivatives losses ( as Argentina did in the early 20th century ) but in that case it may escalate as far as war . It has never done so for derivatives contracts as far as I know but other breaches of contract between countries have resulted in armed conflict . As well as the " hard " results of failing to pay there are soft implications including a guaranteed fall in credit ratings that will result in parties refusing to do business with the counterparty and a separate loss of reputation that will reduce business even further . Potential employees and funders will be unwilling to become involved with such a party and suppliers will be unwilling to supply on credit . The end result in almost every way would be bankruptcy and prison sentences for the party or their senior employees . Most jurisdictions allow for board members at companies in material breach of contract to be banned from running any company for a set period as well . edit : netting off cash flows netting off is a process whereby all of a party 's cash flows , positive and negative , are used to pay each other off so that only the net change is reflected in account balances , for example : company 1 cash flows +1.2 M : co2 +1.1 M : co3 -5 oo K : co4 -3 M : co5 +1.2 M : co3 netting off the total outgoings are 3M + 500k = 3.5 M and total incomings are 1.2 M + 1.1 M + 1.2 M = 3.5 M so the incoming cash flows can be used to pay the outgoing cash flows leaving a net payment into company1 's account of 0 .
You can upload amended report for these years . You can write down the explanation just as you said - you thought the accounts were already closed , and just discovered that they were not . I assume now they are , right ?
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
In the US ( and apparently the UK ) , Renters insurance is an umbrella policy that generally includes some liability coverage in case of damages caused by the insured as well as coverage for contents , and often includes a stipend to cover expenses from finding temporary shelter should it be needed . Contents insurance just covers the property owned by/in possession of the insured . This can be limited by type of damage , so if you are on the top floor you do not need to worry as much about flooding , as if you are on a lower floor . But the savings are generally very small . On a 100k policy in the US typically the difference between renters and content coverage is less than $ 20 a year . Typically content coverage is for people with valuable assets ( original artwork , jewelry , etc ) in excess of what standard liability and property coverage would be needed . This would usually be purchased in addition to a rental or owners policy . Though you could choose to protect your contents with out a liability protection policy . Tenant coverage appears to be the equivalent of the General Liability policy in the US . It would protect the tenant from liability in case of damage caused by them to the rental property or other tenants .
There are actual cases where this has occurred . In cases where the beneficiary was suspected of knowing that the insured person was alive , they have faced fraud charges . In cases where they appeared to act in good faith , the legal consequences are less severe , but the likelihood of the insurance company to sue for their money back will depend on the circumstances and the amount of the payout . <URL> was a woman who abandoned her family and did n't reappear until 11 years later . The family did n't know where she was , so they probably wo n't end up paying back the relatively small $ 100,000 that they received .
Securities clearing and settlement is a complex topic - you can start by browsing <URL> , and ( given sufficient quantities of masochism and strong coffee ) progress to <URL> . You 're correct - modern trade settlement systems are electronic and heavily streamlined . However , you 're never going to see people hand over assets until they 're sure that payment has cleared - given current payment systems , that means the fastest settlement time is going to be the next business day ( so-called T +1 settlement ) , which is what 's seen for heavily standardized instruments like standard options and government debt securities . Stocks present bigger obstacles . First , the seller has to locate the asset being sold &amp; make sure they have clear title to it ... which is tougher than it might seem , given the layers of abstraction/virtualization involved in the chain of ownership &amp; custody , complicated in particular by " rehypothecation " involved in stock borrowing/lending for short sales ... especially since stock borrow/lending record-keeping tends to be somewhat slipshod ( cf. periodic uproar about " naked shorting " and " failure to deliver " ) . Second , the seller has to determine what exactly it is that they have sold ... which , again , can be tougher than it might seem . You see , stocks are subject to all kinds of corporate actions ( e.g. cash distributions , spin-offs , splits , liquidations , delistings ... ) A particular topic of keen interest is who exactly is entitled to large cash distributions - the buyer or the seller ? Depending on the cutoff date ( the " ex-dividend date " ) , the seller may need to deliver to the buyer just the shares of stock , or the shares plus a big chunk of cash - a significant difference in settlement . Determining the precise ex-dividend date ( and so what exactly are the assets to be settled ) can sometimes be very difficult ... it 's usually T-2 , except in the case of large distributions , which are usually T +1 , unless the regulatory authority has neglected to declare an ex-dividend date , in which case it defaults to standard DTC payment policy ( i.e. T-2 ) ... I 've been involved in a few situations where the brokers involved were clueless , and full settlement of " due bills " for cash distributions to the buyer took several months of hard arguing . So yeah , the brokers want a little time to get their records in order and settle the trade correctly .
The number to hold depends on your usage and your goals . However the most important aspect of credit cards is the effect it has on your credit score . Having a good credit score can be useful later when making large purchases like a car or house . Things to consider about credit cards : Paying the minimum monthly balance . Late payments affect your score negatively . Excessive credit . High unused credit limits can flag you as a high risk . Also too many credit cards with low limits can also create lots of unused credit . ( Another user mentioned getting free tupperware with every card they got ) . Merchant support . Not all merchants support all the common cards . e.g. . You may want 1 Visa , 1 Mastercard . Reward systems . Some cards have a maximum limit on rewards given based on spending . At that point you may switch to another card . For most people who have never had a credit card 1 credit card is usually enough initially since the expenses should not exceed income ( plus this reduces the temptation to get into lots of debt ) . The best way to find out if you are okay is to check your credit score and do it regularly . In Canada there are several ways to get this information and some of it free like <URL> .
John 's answer is similar to what I was thinking . You should invest in insurance " because there 's an insurance salesman who needs to pay to send his kid to college . " I will never be a fan of any type of permanent insurance , and I think it wrong to sell a single person with no dependents such a policy . I 've used the expression " Variable Annuities are sold , not bought . " I feel the same about these insurance policies . The best advice I can offer in a short reply is this : If you need life insurance , buy term . Save as much as you can , 10 % minimum , more if you are able . A young person should be saving for retirement and to position them self to buy their first house , if that 's what they wish . What good is a full up Whole Life policy when you need to raise $ 40K to put down on a house ? Sorry to sound like I 'm lecturing , this is one of my hot points .
If the person has prepared ( " put your affairs in order " ) then they will have a will and an executor . And this executor will have a list of the life insurance policies and will contact the companies to arrange payouts to the beneficiaries . It 's not really the beneficiary 's job to do that . If the person has n't made a list of their policies , but has a will and an executor , then the executor can try things like looking at recently paid bills ( you 're sending $ 100 a month to " Friendly Life Insurance Company " ? Bet it 's a life insurance policy ) or paperwork that is in the person 's home or their safety deposit boxes . Even if you do n't have the key to those boxes , a copy of the will and the death certificate will get the box drilled out for you . If you do n't know what bank they might have SD boxes at , again your paperwork will get the manager to find out for you if there is a box at that particular branch , so a day spent visiting branches can be fruitful . ( Something I know from personal experience with someone whose affairs were nowhere near in order . ) Generally you find out you 're a beneficiary of a will because the executor tells you . I suppose it 's possible that a person might name you beneficiary of their life insurance without telling you or anyone else , and without writing a will , but it 's pretty unlikely . If you 're worried , I suggest you encourage your parents , grandparents , and other likely namers of you to write up some paperwork and keep it somewhere family is likely to find it . ( Not hidden inside a book on a bookcase or in the back of the wool cupboard . )
You 'd need to talk with an attorney familiar with Social Security , or an appropriately qualified SSA representative to be sure - but all signs point to the idea that unfortunately Social Security does not work the way your father was told it would . And if he does n't file to receive benefits the reality is actually much worse than " throwing away free money " ! However , this is not due to a complete misunderstanding of the system ! Social Security does work the way he thinks in some instances , just that the rules do n't apply to his exact situation ! First of all , retroactive benefits come in a few forms : <URL> - BEFORE the age of 70 only ! In this method you apply for retirement , but you tell the SSA to suspend/delay your benefits . You are entitled to full lump sum of the payments you deferred ... but at a cost of getting lower monthly benefits permanently ( and that also lowers spousal and dependent children 's benefits , too - if those could apply to your dad ) . But note that at the age of 70 , <URL> , with no lump sum . This is a kind of emergency insurance policy for those who want to try to defer retirement benefits , but who want the opportunity to cash out and get the money they would have been getting " just in case " . You can get <URL> , such as if you wait past your exact retirement age to apply for benefits . But no more : " we can not pay retroactive benefits for any month before you reached full retirement age or more than 6 months in the past " . As for after-death benefits , an estate can only get benefits that were already due to be paid , which generally means a person died and did not get their benefits for that month , so SSA can re-issue a check to the estate <URL> . But as a person can not be due a lump sum payment after age 70 ( for more than 6 months at most ) , the estate will only be able to get at most 1-6 months of payments ( and 6 months is doubtful - you 'll need to ask a lawyer if that much would even be possible ) . If your father was below 70 and wanted to file-and-suspend , the question of lump on death would be more complex and I do n't know that answer - but once you are past 70 this does n't matter any more as you are n't due a lump anymore . What about lawsuits ? Given the above , we 've established pretty clearly that if you do n't claim your benefits within 6 months after age 70 , any months of payment you would have gotten are just forfeited to the system . But if you claim the benefits and stick them in the bank , can they be taken ? Well , if a lawsuit is really a worry , then yes these accumulated funds can required to pay a debt - but this potential for loss can be protected against without forfeiting the benefits entirely ! This is not very common , but if your father does n't need the money now he may be able to deposit some of the money into a special partially-lawsuit protected format of the Roth IRA ( which has no age limits ) <URL> . If he never gets sued , that 's OK - it 's still his money ! If he passes away , the value goes to his estate and does not disappear . And he does n't forfeit any of his earned retirement benefits . It 's Not Free Money - It 's His Money Finally , I would like to share one last thing with you and your father . These benefits are n't free - he has been paying a portion of his paycheck for decades into Social Security , and now he is eligible for the maximum amount of benefits per month that he will qualify for - and if he wants to keep working he loses no benefit and <URL> . That 's up to him . But not filing for benefits now will mean that all this money he 's been paying in for decades will just be lost - they 'll basically just be a tax he 's paid out to other retirees . His estate ( which means you kids ) wo n't get any of it , either . That 'd just be a waste for everyone involved . If you have continued doubts or questions , I would n't hesitate to consult a specialist lawyer or talk with the SSA directly to make sure this is all correct . It 's his money , and he has earned his benefits for many years . I very much hope he gets to enjoy as much of them as he can !
When a delisting happens , the primary process involves , the firm or the entity , trying to buy everyone out so that they can take the firm private by delisting from the stock exchanges . As the firm wants to buy everyone out , the current owners of the equity have the upper hand . They would n't want to sell if they believe the firm has a brighter future . So to compensate the existing holders , the buyer needs to compensate the current holders of any future loss , so they pay a premium to buy them out . Hence the prices offered will be more than the current existing price . And in anticipation of a premium the stocks price rises on this speculation . The other scenario is if the current holder ( s ) decide no to sell their holdings and are small in number , dependent on exchange regulations , and the buyer manages to de-list the stock , the holders might loose out i.e. they have to find another buyer who wants to buy which becomes difficult as the liquidity for the stock is very minimal . if any stock is DE-listed and then we can not trade on it , In India if the promoters capital is more than 90 % , he can get the stock de-listed . There is a process , he has to make an open offer at specified price to minority shareholders . The minority shareholder can refuse to sell . Once the stock is de-listed , it means it can not be traded on a given exchange . However you can still sell / buy by directly finding a buyer / seller and it 's difficult compared to a listed stock .
This depends on the jurisdiction , but such companies are typically subject to regulations ( and audits ) that require them to keep the customers ' accumulated premiums very strictly separated from the company 's own assets , liabilities and expenses . Additionally , they are typically only allowed to invest the capital in very safe things like government bonds . So , unless something truly catastrophic happens ( like the US government defaulting on its bonds ) or people in the company break the regulations ( which would invovle all kinds of serious crimes and require complicity or complete failure of the auditors ) , your premiums and the contractual obligation to you would still be there , and would be absorbed by a different insurance company that takes over the defunct company 's business . Realistically , what all this means is that insurance companies never go bankrupt ; if they do badly , they are typically bought up by a competitor long before things get that bad .
This is not a problem . SWIFT does not need the Beneficiary Account Currency . The settlement account [ or the Instruction amount ] is of interest to the Banks . As I understand your agreement with client is they pay you " X " EUR . That is what would be specified on the SWIFT along with your details as beneficiary [ Account Number etc ] . Once the funds are received by your bank in Turkey , they will get EUR . When they apply these funds to your account in USD , they will convert using the standard rates . Unless you are a large customer and have special instructions [ like do not credit if funds are received in NON-USD or give me a special rate or Call me and ask me what I want to do etc ] . It typically takes 3-5 days for an international wire depending on the countries and currencies involved . Wait for few more days and then if not received , you have to ask your Client to mention to his Bank that Beneficiary is claiming non-receipt of funds . The Bank that initiated the transfer can track the wire not the your bank which is supposed to receive the funds .
It depends on the timing of the events . Sometimes the buying company announces their intention but the other company does n't like the deal . It can go back and forth several times , before the deal is finalized . The specifics of the deal determine what happens to the stock : They can buy all the outstanding shares and the stock holder of those shares get the money . They can trade X shares for the old company for Y shares of the new company . They can do a hybrid where X shares are traded for Z shares and some cash for the fractional shares . The deal will specify when the cutoff is . Some people want the cash , others want the shares . Some will speculate once the initial offer is announced where the final offer ( if there is one ) will end up . This can cause a spike in volume , and the price could go up or down . Regarding this particular deal I did find the following : <URL> Additional Information and Where to Find It Orbitz intends to file with the SEC a proxy statement as well as other relevant documents in connection with the proposed transaction with Expedia . The definitive proxy statement will be sent or given to the stockholders of Orbitz and will contain important information about the proposed transaction and related matters . SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT CAREFULLY WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC , AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS , BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION . The proxy statement and other relevant materials ( when they become available ) , and any other documents filed by Expedia or Orbitz with the SEC , may be obtained free of charge at the SEC 's website , at www.sec.gov . In addition , security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Orbitz by contacting Investor Relations by mail at ATTN : Corporate Secretary , Orbitz Worldwide , Inc. , 500 W. Madison Street , Suite 1000 , Chicago , Illinois 60661 .
end question
start question
Undo 401k to IRA rollover ?
Probably not . You 've left your employer , so you are n't eligible to contribute to the 401 ( k ) anymore . After you 've left , they are required to keep your account open as long as you like , but after you 've rolled it over to something else and closed your account , they are not going to let you open your 401 ( k ) account up again . However , you need to ask yourself : Why do you want to go back to your 401 ( k ) from your IRA ? 401 ( k ) accounts are generally very restrictive as to what you can invest in ; they usually give you a small list of investing options . IRAs , on the other hand , are generally open to any investment you like , limited only by your imagination . If you are n't happy with your current IRA custodian , roll it over into a new one . I 'm sure you 'll be able to find an IRA with the same investment that you are looking for from your 401 ( k ) .
You ca n't roll it over to a Roth IRA without tax penalties . The best thing to do is roll it to an IRA that is n't tied to work at all . Second best is to roll it into your new employer 's 401k . The reason that an IRA makes sense is that it gives you the same tax savings as a 401k , but it allows you to remain in control of the money regardless of your employment status .
If more than one of them charge account fees , you 'll be paying more in fees than you should .
It depends . For 2012 the phaseout range for deducting an IRA contribution when you are covered by a retirement plan at work are as follows : For single filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For head of household filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For married couples filing jointly : $ 92,000 to $ 112,000 For married couples filing separately : $ 0 to $ 10,000 Unfortunately , ' covered ' is n't qualified by any minimum time .
Edited in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comment and OP Tim 's additional question . To add to and clarify a little what littleadv has said , and to answer OP Tim 's next question : As far as the IRS is concerned , you have at most one Individual Retirement Account of each type ( Traditional , Roth ) though the money in each IRA can be invested with as many different custodians ( brokerages , banks , etc. ) and different investments as you like . Thus , the maximum $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for older folks ) that you can contribute each year can be split up and invested any which way you like , and when in later years you take a Required Minimum Distribution ( RMD ) from a Traditional IRA , you can get the money by selling just one of the investments , or from several investments ; all that the IRS cares is that the total amount that is distributed to you is at least as large as the RMD . An important corollary is that the balance in your IRA is the sum total of the value of all the investments that various custodians are holding for you in IRA accounts . There is no loss in an IRA until every penny has been withdrawn from every investment in your IRA and distributed to you , thus making your IRA balance zero . As long as you have a positive balance , there is no loss : everything has to come out . After the last distribution from your Roth IRA ( the one that empties your entire Roth IRA , no matter where it is invested and reduces your Roth IRA balance ( see definition above ) to zero ) , total up all the amounts that you have received as distributions from your Roth IRA . If this is less than the total amount of money you contributed to your Roth IRA ( this includes rollovers from a Traditional IRA or Roth 401k etc. , but not the earnings within the Roth IRA that you re-invested inside the Roth IRA ) , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI limit . This 2 % is not a cap ( in the sense that no more than 2 % of your AGI can be deducted in this category ) but rather a threshold : you can only deduct whatever part of your total Miscellaneous Deductions exceeds 2 % of your AGI . Not many people have Miscellaneous Deductions whose total exceeds 2 % of their AGI , and so they end up not being able to deduct anything in this category . If you ever made nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA because you were ineligible to make a deductible contribution ( income too high , pension plan coverage at work etc ) , then the sum of all these contributions is your basis in your Traditional IRA . Note that your deductible contributions , if any , are not part of the basis . The above rules apply to your basis in your Traditional IRA as well . After the last distribution from your Traditional IRA ( the one that empties all your Traditional IRA accounts and reduces your Traditional IRA balance to zero ) , total up all the distributions that you received ( do n't forget to include the nontaxable part of each distribution that represents a return of the basis ) . If the sum total is less than your basis , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI threshold . You can only deposit cash into an IRA and take a distribution in cash from an IRA . Now , as JoeTaxpayer points out , if your IRA owns stock , you can take a distribution by having the shares transferred from your IRA account in your brokerage to your personal account in the brokerage . However , the amount of the distribution , as reported by the brokerage to the IRS , is the value of the shares transferred as of the time of the transfer , ( more generally the fair market value of the property that is transferred out of the IRA ) and this is the amount you report on your income tax return . Any capital gain or loss on those shares remains inside the IRA because your basis ( in your personal account ) in the shares that came out of the IRA is the amount of the distribution . If you sell these shares at a later date , you will have a ( taxable ) gain or loss depending on whether you sold the shares for more or less than your basis . In effect , the share transfer transaction is as if you sold the shares in the IRA , took the proceeds as a cash distribution and immediately bought the same shares in your personal account , but you saved the transaction fees for the sale and the purchase and avoided paying the difference between the buying and selling price of the shares as well as any changes in these in the microseconds that would have elapsed between the execution of the sell-shares-in-Tim 's - IRA-account , distribute-cash-to-Tim , and buy-shares-in-Tim 's - personal account transactions . Of course , your broker will likely charge a fee for transferring ownership of the shares from your IRA to you . But the important point is that any capital gain or loss within the IRA can not be used to offset a gain or loss in your taxable accounts . What happens inside the IRA stays inside the IRA .
If there is no match and you are disciplined enough to contribute without it coming directly out of your paycheck , dump the 401K . The reason : Most 401K plans have huge hidden fees built into the investment prices . You wo n't see them directly , but 3 % is not uncommon . 3 % is a horrible drag on your investment performance . Get an IRA or Roth IRA and pick something with low fees . Bonus : You will have a lot more investment choices !
No , that 's the idea behind the 60 day rule . The 60 days is from the day of withdrawal to day of deposit . I 'd suggest you go 59 , and not risk some odd personal situation cause you to miss the date . Yes , a big yes , it can not go into the account it came from . Then both accounts ca n't be touched for a year . Yes . I am away , and at the moment ca n't tell you the exact form . I 'd invite one of my collegues to edit this line . No , this is unrelated . As I commented , there 's confusion on withholding . The 20 % pertains to 401 ( k ) accounts , not IRAs .
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
No . Not likely . You usually can not transfer your 401 ( k ) out of a company plan while you are still working there . Some companies do permit such transactions for those 55 and older , but only for your own deposits , not for the matching portion , if any . Either way , best to ask the admin for your company plan . If you were no longer with the company , you 'd be able to transfer the 401 ( k ) to your Solo 401 ( k ) if you wished , either directly , or stopping thru an IRA .
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
There is a penalty for the excess deposit , 6 % per year until it 's removed . I agree , it seems small , but send in the form , take care of it , and put it behind you . Easy enough .
The closest American thing to Canadian TFSA were the Lifetime Savings Accounts ( LSA ) proposed during the first term of George W. Bush administration . LSA had many features of TFSA : after-tax contributions with an annual limit , tax-sheltered growth , tax-free withdrawals of both contributions and earnings at any time . ( The proposal was never enacted - here 's a politically-neutral explanation : LSA amounted to a tax cut on investment income and , considering the cost of tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and two wars , it was very difficult for the Congress to pass such a proposal . ) Without LSA , Roth IRA is the closest thing . There is one important difference . From Roth IRA , you can only withdraw contributions in nominal dollars , not adjusted for inflation . Earnings can be withdrawn without penalty only in retirement . This condition makes Roth IRA suitable primarily for retirement savings . TFSA , due to their tax-free withdrawals , are suitable for saving and investment of any time horizon , from long-term retirement investing to saving for the next major purchase ( car , appliances , or home improvement ) .
I am sorry but this does not really answer your question , but people do n't typically do this . It is often recommended they do the opposite . They move money from a Tax free plan ( like a tradition or roll over IRA ) into a ROTH IRA . A Roth IRA is much better for a person that is young . With a ROTH you pay taxes now ( you already have ) , and withdraw tax free on the growth . You can maintain and continue to contribute to your ROTH while also participating in the 401K . ( Income limits the contribution but not the maintenance . ) It is typically recommended that you first contribute to your 401K up to the match . Lets assume that it is 6 % , but you want to save 15 % of your income for retirement . So 6 % would go to your 401K , then the next 9 % would go into your ROTH . You may then have to revisit your 401K to put more in to get to the 15 % you desire . To complicate matters many 401K plans offer a ROTH option . The money you put in will go in taxed , but the match will be taxed . If your 401K plan offers such a ROTH option , you may still want to go up to the match , then into your private ROTH , then round it out with the rest of the money in the 401K . Why ? Because your may want different investment option then the 401K offers . You may not be finding much info on this because it is such a bad plan . I think you believe that you have to do such based on some false assumptions . Good work on taking care of your future needs .
There is no tax reason limiting you from selling and buying investments , in Traditional IRAs , 401k plans , 403b plans etc as well as their Roth versions since you do n't have to pay capital gains on the transactions ( but ca n't deduct the losses either ) . But one thing to keep in mind is that ultimately when money is distributed from a non-Roth tax-deferred account , it comes out as pure income that is taxed at the then current rate without any of the special tax treatment that is afforded to capital gains , qualified dividends , etc. . Depending on where you are in your life cycle , it might be preferable to have a huge capital gain in a non-tax-deferred account and pay taxes ( at reduced rates ) on it right now rather than to receive the same gain in a non-Roth tax-deferred account and pay taxes on it as simple income when you take it out . For Roth accounts , you will have paid taxes up front when the money went in , and withdrawals are tax-free so it is better to have the huge gain in the Roth rather than outside the Roth .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
Yes , they are within their rights to do so . The dollar limit of $ 18,000 ( in 2015 ) and percentage limit of 100 % are the maximum an employer can allow an employee to contribute , but the employer can set a lower limit . <URL> says : Contribution limits refer to the legal IRS limitations . Some companies cap 401 ( k ) contributions at amounts lower than official IRS contribution limits . There are numerous reasons a company would enforce such limitations , like cost , accounting or an outdated plan document . In theory an employer can set a lower percentage and/or lower absolute dollar limit . In practice I 've seen the former but never the latter . Depending on your employer 's reason for setting the lower limit , you may be able to convince them to raise it .
What you propose puts you at risk to owe tax next April . If you are using the Traditional , pre-tax account , $ 100 you put in will reduce the tax withheld , so you might see $ 70 less in your check . By bumping the allowances you withhold even less . If the employer is doing it right , the allowances do n't change for the fact that your 401 ( k ) changes deposits . Edit - To clarify - Traditional 401 ( k ) are withheld pretax . The effect is that my W2 reflects a box 1 Wages figure that is lower than either my Social Security wages or Medicare wages . All else being equal , 2 people with same number of W4 allowances , first has $ 60K income with a $ 10K 401 ( k ) deduction , the second has $ 50K income . The federal tax withholding should be identical as payroll withhold on the same $ 50K for each . My <URL> may help explain this a bit more . To specifically answer your last edited line , if your W4 is perfect , and you increase 401 ( k ) deductions , aside from trivial anomalies , it should remain perfect .
I rolled mine over from the company I was at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I needed to setup a traditional IRA . There is paperwork your old jobs can provide you . I had to put in some mailing addresses , some account numbers and turn them in . My broker received it , I chose what I wanted to invest it in and that was that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoiding penalties is to have your past employers send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
Yes . You can convert an unlimited amount from a traditional IRA to a Roth , and pay the tax to the extent any of the account was n't yet taxed . It does not count against any annual deposit limits .
end question
start question
Why do some people go through contortions to avoid paying taxes , yet spend money on expensive financial advice , high-interest loans , etc ?
One is a choice the other is not . While they are both liabilities on the balance sheet , in the real world they are quite different . We do not feel as much ownership over our money that goes to interest payments as we do over our tax payments . Taxes pay for our government and the services it provides . Interest , on the other hand , is what we pay in order to have a bank loan us money . Similar to paying for a good or service obtained from some other business , we do not feel we have a say in what the bank does with that money . If we disapprove of a business ' practices , we stop doing business with them ; assuming there are other choices . We can not practically avoid dealing with our government . We certainly feel that we should have a say in what is done with our tax money . I doubt there is anyone in the world that completely approves of their government 's spending . It is very easy to feel marginalized with regard to our tax payments . For example , some people feel resentment because their taxes fund the welfare rolls . All that said , I believe there is little overlap between the two groups . It seems to me that you are referring to those with large amounts of high interest ( e.g. credit card ) debt . I doubt that a large percentage of them are scouring the tax laws , looking for deductions and loopholes . If they had that mindset , they would also be working hard to get out of the hole they are in . In summary , we choose to pay a financial adviser , to take out a loan or to obtain a credit card . We do not choose to pay taxes . Since taxes are supposed to pay for our government and things which should benefit everyone , we want a say in what is done with it . This is also the case because it is forced on us . ( " Fine son , I 'll lend you some money , but I do n't want you buying cigarettes with it . " ) Since our say is limited and we likely will not approve of everything our government does , we want to exert what control we do have : reduce our payments as best we can .
Governments borrowing money does n't create new money . When banks " borrow " money ( i.e. take deposits ) , it does effectively create money because the depositor expects to be able to get the money back at any time , but the bank assumes that most wo n't actually do this and lends out most of the money to other people . If everyone did actually ask for their money back at once , the illusion of the extra money created by this process would collapse , and the bank would go bust . In contrast when governments borrow money , the loan is n't repayable on demand , it has a fixed maturity and the money is only repaid at the end of that period ( plus interest at defined points during the period ) . So holders of government debt do n't have money they can spend ( they can turn it into money they can spend but only by finding someone else to buy it ) . So government debt does n't create inflation in itself . If they printed money , then they 'd be devaluing the money of everyone who had saved or invested , whereas if they borrow money and use taxes to repay it , the burden falls more evenly across the economy and does n't disproportionately penalise certain sets of people .
foreign income , transfer it to my savings account in India Yes you can transfer to India . The right account would be NRO/NRE . As an NRI one should not hold a regular savings account . forum that foreign income is not taxable unless used to buy stocks , fds etc If you are an NRI , income earned outside of India is not taxable in India . However any income you generate in India is taxable , i.e. interest income , gains from shares etc. . Do we need to pay taxes for the money transferred No tax if you are an NRI even if you transfer funds to India . Taxation does not depend on whether or not you transfer the money , it depends on your status used to pay home EMIs or principle amount ? You can use the money for what ever you like .
This is basically done to reduce costs and overhead , with agreement of the credit card issuers . When the card is physically present and the charge is low , the burden of keeping the signed receipts and of additional delays at the cash register is not worth the potential risk of fraud . Depending on the location and the specific charge-back history of the business , the limit above which signature is required differs . In one supermarket in the area I live they require signatures only on charges above $ 50 . In another , 10 miles away from the first one , they require signatures on charges above $ 25 .
Technical analysis is based more on psychology than anything else . As an example , if an analyst estimates or believes that a stock is undervalued , or simply wants to re-balance their portfolio , then they will buy some amount , moving the price up . Others in the market see the upwards move as the start of an upwards trend , an indication that the stock is undervalued or perhaps even that an insider is trading ahead of better than expected data from the firm . They then buy the stock creating a self-fulfilling prophecy and pulling more traders in as they see an upward trend being confirmed . This is even more pronounced in a bear market as fear is an even stronger driver . When a trader sees a stock is falling they are more likely to jump to the conclusion that it is due to expected poor performance of the firm and that the firm and the economy are both in trouble and going down than to think that it is simply a retrenching or a large investor re-balancing etc. . To quote Credit Suisse [ 1 ] A chart is a mirror of the mood of the crowd and not of the fundamental factors . Thus , technical analysis is the analysis of human mass psychology . Therefore , it is also called behavioral finance . The underlying truth that makes technical analysis work is that people are predictably irrational , at least in the short run and tend to follow the same patterns of thought . references : [ 1 ] <URL> [ 2 ] <URL> [ 3 ] CFA level 1 syllabus
The " just accounting " is how money market works these days . Lets look at this simplified example : The bank creates an asset - loan in the amount of X , secured by a house worth 1.25 * X ( assuming 20 % downpayment ) . The bank also creates a liability in the amount of X to its depositors , because the money lent was the money first deposited into the bank by someone else ( or borrowed by the bank from the Federal Reserve ( * ) , which is , again , a liability ) . That liability is not secured . Now the person defaults on the loan in the amount of X , but at that time the prices dropped , and the house is now worth 0.8 * X . The bank forecloses , sells the house , recovers 80 % of the loan , and removes the asset of the loan , creating an asset of cash in the value of 0.8 * X . But the liability in the amount of X did n't go anywhere . Bank still has to repay the X amount of money back to its depositors/Feds . The difference ? 20 % of X in our scenario - that 's the bank 's loss . ( * ) Federal Reserve is the US equivalent of a central bank .
In theory , yes . In practice : Most cards charge a 3 % or so fee on balance transfer . If you slip and let you balance go past " free balance transfer " time limits , you 'll quickly pay more in interest than you gained from keeping free credit around . You 'll need an endless supply of free transfer cards to keep shuffling it around - what if one day it so happens that none is offering it right now and your current free transfer is about to expire ? Again , you 'll pay a lot . Doing this ( opening new accounts frequently ) may hurt your credit rating , which may hurt your chance of getting new deals , which would lead to problems described above . So it can be gamed , but the odds are not on your side :)
One explanation is that movie patrons are considering their total willingness to pay for the movie experience so that if the ticket price plus the market price of popcorn is less than their willingness to pay ( WTP ) , the theater has an opportunity to extract more consumer surplus by charging higher than market prices for the popcorn ( that is , <URL> ) . There is a working paper on the subject by <URL> , the abstract of which reads : Prices for goods such as blades for razors , ink for printers and concessions at movies are often set well above cost . Theory has shown that this could yield a profitable price discrimination strategy often termed " metering . " The idea is that a customer 's intensity of demand for aftermarket goods ( e.g. the concessions ) provides a meter of how much the customer is willing to pay for the primary good ( e.g. admission ) . If this correlation in tastes for the two goods is positive , a high price on the aftermarket good allows firms to extract a greater total price ( admissions plus concessions ) from higher type customers . This paper develops a simple aggregate model of discrete-continuous demand to motivate how this correlation can be tested using simple regression techniques and readily available firm data . Model simulations illustrate that the regressions can be used to predict whether aftermarket prices should be above , below or equal to their marginal cost . We then apply the approach to box-office and concession data from a chain of Spanish theaters and find that high priced concessions do extract more surplus from customers with a greater willingness to pay for the admission ticket . <URL> make a similar argument in a JPE article . They essentially argue that purchases of things like movie tickets are made by groups ; once individuals are constrained by the group 's choice , the firm has additional market power : We present models in which price discrimination in the context of a two-part price can occur in some competitive markets . Purchases take place in groups , which choose which firms to patronize . While firms are perfectly competitive with respect to groups , they have some market power over individual consumers , who are constrained by their groups ' choices . We find that firms will charge an entry fee that is below marginal cost , and the second part of the price is marked up above marginal cost . The markup not only is positive but increases with the quality of the product . The quote you are looking for is similar , and again attributes the discrepancy to price discrimination . From the Armchair Economist ( p. 159 ) : The purpose of expensive popcorn is not to extract a lot of money from customers . That purpose would be better served by cheap popcorn and expensive movie tickets . Instead , the purpose of expensive popcorn is to extract different sums from different customers . Popcorn lovers , who have more fun at the movies , pay more for their additional pleasure . That is , some people like popcorn more than others . The latter idea is that the movie experience for popcorn lovers is worth more than the sum of its parts : that a movie ticket + popcorn is worth more than either of them separately for some people .
A falling exchange rate is an indication of falling confidence in a currency . Countries like Iran or Venezuela , with a <URL> , set their exchange rates at a higher value than the market accepts . Such market expectations may be influenced by poor government management , interventions into markets ( such as nationalising businesses ) or general instability / scarcity . The governments act to manage that uncertainty by limiting the availability of foreign exchange and pegging the exchange rate . Since there is an inadequate supply of trusted foreign currency people turn to informal exchanges in order to hedge their currency risk . This creates a negative feedback loop . People in government who have access to foreign exchange start to trade on informal markets , pocketing the difference in the official and unofficial rates . The increasing gap between the two rates drives increasing informal market exchange and can result in speculative bubbles . Driving instability ( or economic contradiction ) is that the massive and increasing difference between the official and market exchange rates becomes a powerful form of rent for government officials . This drives further state-led rent-seeking behaviour and causes the economy to become even more unstable . If you 're interested in a more formal academic study of how such parallel markets in currency arise , <URL> at the University of Pretoria is a useful source .
You are correct that it could refer to any of the types of interest rates that you 've mentioned . In general , though , phrases such as " rising interest rates " and " falling interest rates " refer to the <URL> or <URL> . These are the interest rates at which banks in the U.S. and U.K. , respectively , are lending money to each other .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
In other words , math . All the other answers are great , but I thought I might add something concrete to clarify slightly . Consider a counterexample . Suppose I borrow $ 120000 at 1 % / month interest ( I know mortgages are usually priced with annual rates , but this will make the math simpler ) . Further suppose that I want to pay a fixed amount of principal each month , rather than a fixed payment . Let 's say we want to pay off the loan in 10 years ( 120 months ) , so we have a fixed principal payment of $ 1000/month . So what 's the interest for month 1 ? One percent of $ 120K is $ 1200 , so your total payment will be $ 2200 . The second month , the interest will be on $ 119K , so your payment will be $ 2190 . And so on , until the last month you will be paying $ 1010 . So , the amount of interest you pay each month declines , as does your monthly payment . But for most people , paying big payments at the beginning and smaller ones toward the end is completely backwards , since most of us earn more as we progress in our careers . Sixteen years after I took out a mortgage with a $ 1300/month payment , I find it fairly easy to pay , although it was a bit challenging to our cash flow initially . The standard amortization requires a fixed payment each month , but the interest amount still has to decline as the principal declines . That means the amount of principal paid must increase as you go along .
Your Purchase and Sale agreement should have a financing contingency . If it does n't , your money may be at risk , and the agent did you no favor . Edit - I answered when away from computer . This is a snapshot of the standard clause from the Greater Boston Real Estate Board . Each state has its own standard documents . <URL> The normal process is to have some level of prequalification , showing a high probability of final approval , make offer , then after it 's accepted , this form is part of the purchase and sale process .
I do n't believe there is any particular structural or financial reason that outgoing wire transfers cost so much in Canada , their costs are no higher than other countries ( and lower than many ) . Wires seem to be an area where the Canadian banks have decided people do n't comparison shop , so it 's not a competitive advantage to offer a better price . The rates you quoted are on the low side : $ 80 for a largish international wire is not unusual , and HSBC charges <URL> ! There are several alternative ways to transfer money domestically in Canada . If the recipient banks at the same bank , it 's possible to go into a branch and transfer money directly from your own account to their account ( I 've never been charged for this ) . The transfer is immediate . But it could n't be done online , last time I checked . For transfers where you do n't know the recipients bank account , you can pay online with Interac E-Transfers , offered by most Canadian banks . It 's basically e-mailing money . It usually costs $ 1 to $ 1.50 per transfer , and has limits on how much you can send per day/week . Each of the banks also have a bill-pay service , but unlike similar services in the US ( where they mail a paper check if the recipient is n't on their system ) , each Canadian bank has a limited number of possible payees ( mostly utilities , governments , major stores ) .
( Assuming you are in the USA ) If your money is not in a qualified ( eg retirement ) account , any distribution from the fund is going to be taxable to you , either as regular income or capital gain . Reinvesting the dividend does not change that . ( Municipal bond funds may or may not be taxable , depending on where you live . ) Most funds will use cash-on-hand coming from interest payments and capital gains ( if they actively manage their portfolio ) to reinvest , but in the USA funds must distribute a certain percentage of the interest/gains they recieve from the holdings or else they have tax implications that will affect expenses and NAV .
Like Bluetie Grasper have said . Can I create a PayPal account and receive $ 200 ( or a similar amount ) without adding a bank account , credit card , or anything but my email address ? The answer is No . You can transfer the money to your PayPal account but until you verify it with your personal information with at least a credit card or mostly likely a bank account , PayPal will hold those funds until otherwise . Can I then use that money to buy on Amazon , still without adding anything but my email address ? If not , can I buy gift cards and use those on Amazon ? Amazon does not accept PayPal .
Say we have stock XYZ that costs $ 50 this second . It does n't cost XYZ this second . The market price only reflects the last price at which the security traded . It does n't mean that if you 'll get that price when you place an order . The price you get if/when your order is filled is determined by the bid/ask spreads . Why would people sell below the current price , and not within the range of the bid/ask ? Someone may be willing to sell at an <URL> of $ 47 simply because that 's the best price they think they can sell the security for . Keep in mind that the " someone " may be a computer that determined that $ 47 is a reasonable ask price . Remember that bid/ask spreads are n't fixed , and there can be multiple bid/ask prices in a market at any given time . Your buy order was filled because at the time , someone else in the market was willing to sell you the security for the same price as your <URL> . Your respective buy/sell orders were matched based on their price ( and volume , conditional orders , etc ) . These questions may be helpful to you as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , you say you 're a day trader . If that 's so , I strongly recommend getting a better grasp on the basics of market mechanics before committing any more capital . Trading without understanding how markets work at the most fundamental levels is a recipe for disaster .
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
The correct , legal way to handle this would be to file an amended return for that year ( probably best to talk to a CPA ) . If you do n't have the 1099 , the IRS has a process to handle that <URL> . It sounds like they would just try to contact the employer themselves , but it does n't say exactly what would happen if the employer is out of business .
IRS does n't require 1099 to be filed for payments of less than $ 10 . It is , however , taxable income . The fact that 1099 was n't filed with the IRS does n't affect your tax liabilities . If for example you have a private loan ( say to a family member ) and get paid interest on it , the payer will also probably not file 1099-INT with the IRS . However the interest you 're being paid is taxable income to you and should be reported on Schedule B.
end question
start question
Understanding Interest Rate Risk : What is it , and what techniques do I use to minimize it ?
If you own a bond and the interest rate goes up , the price on your bond goes down . You 're stuck with a loss of principal ( if you sell ) , or receiving a lower rate than what is available in the market . See also <URL> . I would personally invest in a bond ETF before looking at individual bonds . That will mitigate a number of risks associated with bonds .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
First lets understand what convexity means : <URL> - convexity refers to non-linearities in a financial model . In other words , if the price of an underlying variable changes , the price of an output does not change linearly , but depends on the second derivative ( or , loosely speaking , higher-order terms ) of the modeling function . Geometrically , the model is no longer flat but curved , and the degree of curvature is called the convexity . Okay so for us idiots this means : if the price of ABC ( we will call P ) is determined by X and Y . Then if X decreases by 5 then the value of P might not necessarily decrease by 5 but instead is also dependent on Y ( wtf $ % # ! is Y ? , who cares , its not important for us to know , we can understand what convexity is without knowing the math behind it ) . So if we chart this the line would look like a curve . ( clearly this is an over simplification of the math involved but it gives us an idea ) So now in terms of options , convexity is also known as gamma , it will probably be easier to talk about gamma instead of using a confusing word like convexity ( gamma is the convexity of options ) . So lets define Gamma : <URL> - The rate of change for delta with respect to the underlying asset 's price . So the gamma of an option indicates how the <URL> will change relative to a 1 point move in the underlying asset . In other words , the Gamma shows the option delta 's sensitivity to market price changes . or Gamma shows how volatile an option is relative to movements in the underlying asset . So the answer is : If we are long gamma ( convexity of an option ) it simply means we are betting on higher volatility in the underlying asset ( in your case the VIX ) . Really that simple ? Well kinda , to fully understand how this works you really need to understand the math behind it . But yes being long gamma means being long volatility . An example of being " long gamma " is a <URL> Side Note : I personally do trade the VIX and it can be very volatile , you can make or lose lots of money very quickly trading VIX options . Some resources : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> - further reading if your interested . <URL> - even more reading .
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
An article linked from <URL> has some great advice , which I think are good rules of thumb . Do n't file a small claim . A claim should be at least $ 200 beyond your deductible before you file , and quite possibly further . Stick with one company . They are more likely to forgive than if you switch companies constantly . If your Homeowners and Auto insurance are through the same provider , they are less likely to want to lose you business Keep your home safe , such that you are less likely to need insurance claims . Put in burglary protection , trim trees , etc. . Also , at least my insurance gives a premium price for those who have n't filed a claim in 5 or more years for homeowners or rental insurance . See if you have a similar discount , will loose it , and guess how much that will cost you over 5 years . My rule of thumb : Your premium might go up quite a bit , possibly as much as triple , especially for a large claim . But , it is certainly worth it if you are going to get more than triple your premium through your claim . The worst case : Mortgage mandated insurance , which will be about triple your current cost .
Nice idea , but you will have a potential problem . State lawmakers have already considered this option : I looked at this site : <URL> because it include info for on all the plans . For Illinois it discuses income tax recapture . Effective January 1 , 2007 , rollovers from this plan to an out-of-state program are included in Illinois taxable income to the extent of prior Illinois deductions . Effective January 1 , 2009 , nonqualified distributions from this plan are included in Illinois taxable income to the extent of prior Illinois deductions . Most of the states have similar wording . When looking up the law the key word is recapture . The reason why there is no recapture provision at the federal level is that there is no tax deduction on contributions . The 10 % penalty make it less likely that somebody would want to have nonqualified distributions . If a state gives a tax deduction in the year of the contribution they want to demand that tax deduction back if the funds are not used for educational purposes . Generally there are of course provisions for scholarships , death , and disability .
T4A is " Statement of Pension , Retirement , Annuity , and Other Income " Other Income includes scholarship and certain grant . If the amount is exactly $ 890 and the payer is Ministry of Training , Colleges and Universities , it is 30 % Off Ontario Tuition Grant . If the amount is exactly $ 1000 and the payer is Canada Student Loans Program , it is Canada Student Grant for Persons from Low-Income Families . if the payer is University of X , it is scholarship received between Sep 2014 and Dec 2014 .
If you were directly invested in government bonds then you would pay no tax , but ANY pass through entity ( whether a fund or even a 401K ) nullifies that tax status where the existence of the pass through entity creates its own tax event . From my understand you would simply pay the applicable capital gains tax ( short term or long term ) and would not qualify for any bond government bond related tax breaks .
As always , it depends . Variable rates , over the long haul are almost always lower ; and result in an overall faster repayment . In any specific timespan , however , it is generally possible to pick a point where a smart lock-in would have been a better decision , but these points are only apparent in retrospect . Given the current rate climate , where there seems to be a general consensus that rates will rise , a lock-in would seem prudent . But that will only really be proven several years from now . My tip on this , like most other investing advise , is " do what you need to do so that you can sleep at night " . If you want or need some sense of security , then by all means , lock in . If you want the absolute lowest rate , and have some room to maneuver in your finances , you might be willing to take the risk .
In the <URL> , the OP had posted a screenshot ( circa 2010 ) from Transunion with suggestions on how to improve the OP 's credit score . One of these suggestions was to obtain " retail revolving accounts . " By this , they are referring to credit accounts from a particular retail store . Stores have been offering credit accounts for many years , and today , this usually takes the form of a store credit card . The credit card does not have the Visa or MasterCard logo on it , and is only valid at that particular store . ( For example , Target has their own credit card that only works at Target stores . ) The " revolving " part simply means that it is an open account that you can continue to make new charges and pay off , as opposed to a fixed retail financing loan ( such as you might get at a high-end furniture store , where you obtain a loan for a single piece of furniture , and when it is paid off , the account is closed ) . The formula for credit scores are proprietary secrets . However , I have n't read anything that indicates that a store credit card helps your credit score more than a standard credit card . I suspect that Transunion was offering this tip in an attempt to give the consumer more ideas of how to add credit cards to their account that the consumer might not have thought of . But it is possible that buried deep in the credit score formula , there is something in there that gives you a higher score if you have a store credit card . As an aside , the OP in the other question had a credit score of 766 and was trying to make it higher . In my opinion , <URL> . Remember that the financial services industry has an incentive to sell you as much debt as possible , and so all of their advice will point to you getting more credit accounts and getting more in debt .
Why do people keep talking about 401K 's at work ? That is NOT dollar cost averaging . DCA refers to when you have a large sum of money . Do you invest it all at once or spread it out over several smaller purchases over a period of time ? There really is n't a " when " should I use it . It is simply a matter of where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . DCA has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a tradeoff . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
I think this is explained fairly clearly by the <URL> on the topic . In particular , yes there is an immediate tax benefit in the year that you make the investment , in that it reduces your income tax bill by 50 % of your investment up to # 100,000 ( i.e. a maximum reduction of # 50,000 ) . This reduction is capped at the actual income tax paid , so you ca n't directly get money back if the theoretical relief would exceed that amount . You can also " carry back " some of an investment one tax year so you could potentially get a refund on your 2012-2013 tax bill by investing now ( before April 5th 2014 when 2013-2014 ends ) - similarly you could divide up an investment between the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 tax years if you invest after April 6th 2014 . Note that you need to hold onto the shares for at least three years or the relief is withdrawn ( which presumably means HMRC will demand the tax be repaid again ) . You will also be exempt from capital gains tax on the shares if you hold them for the three years . Finally there are some provisions for getting relief from capital gains tax on assets you already hold and sell if you then reinvest the money in SEIS shares .
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
Get your jewelery appraised . ( Do n't let whoever does the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that makes it up because somebody took the time to design patterns and do specialty craft to the metal .
Without getting into whether you should invest in Gold or Not ... 1 . Where do I go and make this purchase . I would like to get the best possible price . If you are talking about Physical Gold then Banks , Leading Jewelry store in your city . Other options are buying Gold Mutual Fund or ETF from leading fund houses . 2 . How do I assure myself of quality . Is there some certificate of quality/purity ? This is mostly on trust . Generally Banks and leading Jewelry stores will not sell of inferior purity . There are certain branded stores that give you certificate of authenticity 3 . When I do choose to sell this commodity , when and where will I get the best cost ? If you are talking about selling physical gold , Jewelry store is the only place . Banks do not buy back the gold they sold you . Jewelry stores will buy back any gold , however note there is a buy price and sell price . So if you buy 10 g and sell it back immediately you will not get the same price . If you have purchased Mutual Funds / ETF you can sell in the market .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
If bond rates are falling , investors will want to buy longer-term bonds in order to LOCK IN today 's ( presumably ) higher rate for as long as possible . If bond rates are rising , investors will prefer to buy shorter-term bonds that can be ROLLED OVER at ( presumably ) higher rates later .
You should cut it up and discard it , as it is useless . Future reward cards do n't need old cards to add balances to . The physical card has no cost to the giver , and once empty , is of no value to you .
One risk with any investment denominated in foreign currency is the exchange rate risk . Specifically , if the value of your local currency increases relative to the Australian Dollar , then it has the potential to reduce , eliminate , or even give you a negative return on your investment unless you plan to keep the proceeds in Australian currency . Of course , this could work to your advantage to and enhance your return if your local currency gets weaker relative to the foreign currency .
end question
start question
Are funeral plots a good investment ?
It depends on the meaning you want to apply to investment . If you mean in a speculative sense , that you would be buying and selling plots , then probably no . If you mean in a future-proofing sense , then yes perhaps . It is one less decision to put on your heirs and loved ones . And if finances are tight for whoever is left , having that specific cost removed from the equation might be important . That is at least one of the sales pitches for prepaid funerals . While an equivalent amount of money in an investment account might grow faster , you are buying some freedom-from-complexity for those that have to deal with your passing .
Check out some <URL> compared : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( this book gets a rave review in the question George Marian linked to ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Note that all these portfolios are loosely based on <URL> , a theory of how to maximize reward given a risk tolerance introduced by <URL> . The theory behind the <URL> and the <URL> ( <URL> ) is that you can make money by rebalancing once a year or less . You can take a look at <URL> to see other lazy allocation percentages . One big thing to remember - the expense ratio of the funds you invest in is a major contributor to the return you get . If they 're taking 1 % of all of your gains , you 're not . If they 're only taking .2 % , that 's an automatic .8 % you get . The reason Vanguard is so often used in these model portfolios is that they have the lowest expense ratios around . If you are talking about an IRA or a mutual fund account where you get to choose who you go with ( as opposed to a 401K with company match ) , conventional wisdom says go with Vanguard for the lowest expense ratios .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
The power of compounding interest and returns is an amazing thing . Start educating yourself about investing , and do it -- there are great Q&amp;A s on this site , numerous books ( I recommend " The Intelligent Investor " , tools for small investors ( like Sharebuilder.com ) and other resources out there to get you started . Your portfolio does n't need to include every dime you have either . But you do need to develop the discipline to save money -- even if that savings is $ 20 while you 're in school . How you split between cash/deposit account savings and other investment vehicles is a decision that needs to make sense to you .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
From what I understand , the answer is no . Banking systems and credit reporting services are different from country to country , each has their own rules and way of doing things , and I 'm under the impression that neither really talks to one another except in the case of sending money ( in which case there are other things involved , the least of which being conversion ) . Note that , although not the greatest example , as an American living in Japan , the banks here are totally different than those in the States . Banks in one location know nothing of my credit rating in the other , and moreover would not trust it or even care . ( Multinational banks like Citibank may be an exception though and is worth looking into . )
It depends on the meaning you want to apply to investment . If you mean in a speculative sense , that you would be buying and selling plots , then probably no . If you mean in a future-proofing sense , then yes perhaps . It is one less decision to put on your heirs and loved ones . And if finances are tight for whoever is left , having that specific cost removed from the equation might be important . That is at least one of the sales pitches for prepaid funerals . While an equivalent amount of money in an investment account might grow faster , you are buying some freedom-from-complexity for those that have to deal with your passing .
At a very high-level , the answer is yes , that 's a good idea . For money that you want to invest on the scale of decades , putting money into a broad , market-based fund has historically given the best returns . Something like the Vanguard S&amp;P 500 automatically gives you a diverse portfolio , with super low expenses . As it sounds like you understand , the near-term returns are volatile , and if you really think you might want this money in the next few years , then the stock market might not be the best choice . As a final note , as one of the comments mentioned , it makes sense to hold a broad , market-based fund for your IRA as well , if possible .
Most people carry a diversity of stock , bond , and commodities in their portfolio . The ratio and types of these investments should be based on your goals and risk tolerance . I personally choose to manage mine through <URL> which combine the three , but <URL> are also becoming popular . As for where you keep your portfolio , it depends on what you 're investing for . If you 're investing for retirement you are definitely best to keep as much of your investment as possible in <URL> or <URL> ( preferably <URL> ) . Many advisers suggest contributing as much to your 401k as your company matches , then the rest to IRA , and if you over contribute for the IRA back to the 401k . You may choose to skip the 401k if you are not comfortable with the choices your company offers in it ( such as only investing in company stock ) . If you are investing for a point closer than retirement and you still want the risk ( and reward potential ) of stock I would suggest investing in <URL> , or eating the tax and investing in regular mutual funds . If you are going to take money out before retirement the penalties of a 401k or IRA make it not worth doing . Technically a savings account is n't investing , but rather a place to store money .
In general , no , not in a strict monetary sense . ( As @MrChrister noted in a comment . ) The primary exception to this , for me , would be in the case of a DIY renovation and a house-flip . Given an outdated house in a good neighbourhood , and spending a reasonable amount on a selected set of renovations could make the house saleable to a different target audience , which might be willing to pay more than the dollar cost ( including your labour ) of the renovations themselves .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
To me this sounds like a transaction , where E already owns a company worth 400k and can therefore pocket the money from D and give D 25 % of the profits every year . There is nothing objective ( like a piece of paper ) that states the company is worth 400K . It is all about perceived value . Some investors may think it is worth something because of some knowledge they may have . Heck , the company could be worth nothing but the investor could have some sentimental value associated to it . So is it actually the case that E 's company is worth 400k only AFTER the transaction ? It is worth what someone pays for it when they pay for it . I repeat - the 400K valuation is subjective . In return the investor is getting 25 % ownership of the product or company . The idea is that when someone has ownership , they have a vested interest in it being successful . In that case , the investor will do whatever he/she can to improve the chances of success ( in addition to supplying the 100K capital ) . For instance , the investor will leverage their network or perhaps put more money into it in the future . Is the 100k added to the balance sheet as cash ? Perhaps . It is an asset that may later be used to fund inventory ( for instance ) . ... and would the other 300k be listed as an IP asset ? No . See what I said about the valuation just being perception . Note that the above analysis does n't apply to all Dragons Den deals . It only applies to situations where capital is exchanged for ownership in the form of equity .
The funds often have a lower minimum for IRAs , or a lower minimum if you commit to a certain monthly deposit , say $ 200 per month .
revised after your edit You 'd be potentially earning $ 8-10K a year after property taxes ( before income taxes ) , and getting the balloon payment in 5 years . Add to that maintenance fees , you would have a $ 30K cushion allowing you to sell at $ 30K loss to break even . So if you sell at gain - you made some money . During the last 5 years the prices fell by 25-50 % , so people who tried this trick 5 years ago are in a very bad place right now . You have a very good chance to join them . However , if the prices are to go up and you are able to sell the property in 5 years , you can make some gain . At current ARM 5/1 rates ( 3.125 % according to zillow mortgage marketplace ) , it looks like you 're borrowing ~ $ 655K , which makes it $ 850K purchase . Prices go down 5 % - you lost all your profits . Prices go up 5 % - you doubled it . Quite a gamble , I 'd say . I think that its insane , for someone who has no idea in real estate , to spend $ 200K in cash and more than half a million in liability , that 's what got us into the housing market collapse to begin with . in addition A point made by @mhoran_psprep is depreciation . For a $ 850K you 're writing off $ 30K a year depreciation . That will be recaptured when you sell , i.e. : if you sell for the same price as you bought it for , you 're going to have $ 150K capital gain on your hands . Which in turn means , assuming current long term capital gains rates , $ 22.5 K tax bill . Current rates are for this year only , and if expire - the tax bill is going to be even higher . $ 30K cushion we calculated above ? Paid to Uncle Sam . Pufff , gone . You 're with 5K left of it , for 5 years period of investing your $ 200K cash . That 's 0.5 % annual ROI . HORRIBLE . You can put your $ 200K in a savings account and get higher guaranteed returns . And that 's with a reasonable scenario of prices staying more or less flat in the next 5 years .
I find it strange that they would actually recommend switching to a SD RSP . Most of the Big 5 banks would be happy to have you blindly invested in their high-fee mutual funds without even making you aware that the self-directed option exists . In my view , there are a few very important things to consider : Would you like your investments to be self-directed ? Would you be able to decide what to invest your money in if you had all the choice that 's offered through a SD RSP ? Would your financial advisor at the bank still be involved ? Only consider answering the question of when you should start looking into switching to one if you have already decided that you would like to switch to one . If you would like to have a SD RSP , it might make sense once your invested amount can justify any added commissions and fees you may incur with your new investments . If it 's at a Big 5 bank ( i.e. TD or RBC ) you 're looking at $ 30/trade for stocks and ETFs , and maybe a fee for third-party mutual funds . Are you well-versed with all the products that you can invest in using a self-directed account ? Although I would generally recommend a SD RSP , or even a self-directed TFSA or non-registered account , it would behoove an investor to really be committed to knowing what they 're doing . Without presuming too much about the OP , I would recommend anyone reading this answer to start at a great <URL> . What are all the fees associated with the SD RSP ? Many of the Big 5 banks and other companies charge exorbitant fees . Commission fees notwithstanding , the two major fees that I would be careful about are the annual administration fees and transfer out fees . RBC Direct Investing , for example , <URL> $ 75/yr for RSPs that are less than $ 25000 in value . They also charge an exorbitant $ 135 transfer out fee . Of course , you 'd need to pay that if you decide to switch brokerages since you ca n't just withdraw from bank A and redeposit at bank B without triggering tax consequences . If you really would like a self-directed account , must you stick with your current bank ? Having said all this , I think that there are other brokerages out there that should be evaluated apart from the Big 5 banks should you choose to go this route , particularly if one has less than $ 25000 invested . A good starting point is at a <URL> , which includes a table of many Canadian discount brokerages . The irony would be staggering if you inform your financial advisor at your bank that you have decided to take their advice and open a SD RSP , but somewhere else . Best of success with your RRSP , whatever you decide to do . If you would like me to elaborate further on any of these points , please post a comment and I 'll do what I can .
Probably not . A debit of 50K in your Bank statement does not mean that its invested into tax saving instrument . This question is best answered by the finance department of your company . Practise vary from organization to organization .
Technically , this does n't seem like a scam , but I do n't think the system is beneficial . They use a lot of half-truths to convince you that their product is right for you . Some of the arguments presented and my thoughts . Do n't buy term and invest the rest because you ca n't predict how much you 'll earn from the " rest " Also Do n't invest in a 401k because you ca n't predict how much you 'll earn They are correct that you wo n't know exactly how much you 'll have due to stock market , but that does n't mean the stock market is a bad place to put your money . Investing in a 401k is risky because of the harsh 401k withdrawal rules Yes , 401ks have withdrawal rules ( ca n't typically start before 59.5 , must start by 70.5 ) but those rules do n't hamper my investing style in any way . Most Term Life Insurance policies do n't pay out They are correct again , but their conclusions are wrong . Yes , most people do n't die while you have a term insurance policy which is why Term life insurance is relatively cheap . But they are n't arguing you do n't need insurance , just that you need their insurance which is " better " You need the Guaranteed growth they offer The chart used to illustrate their guaranteed growth includes non-guaranteed dividends . They invest $ 10,000 per year for 36 years and end up with $ 1,000,000 . That 's a 5 % return ! I use 10 % for my estimate of stock market performance , but let 's say it 's only 8 % . The same $ 10,000 per year results in over $ 2 Million dollars . Using 10.5 % ( average return of the S&amp;P 500 over it 's lifetime ) the result is a staggering $ 3.7 MILLION . So if I 'm looking at $ 3.7 M vs. $ 1M , It costs me $ 2.7 Million dollars to give me the same coverage as my term life policy . That 's one expensive Term Life Insurance policy . My personal favorite : Blindly following the advice of Wall Street and financial " gurus " such as Dave Ramsey and Suze Orman got you where you are . Are you happy with the state of your finances ? Do you still believe their fairytale , " Buy Term ( insurance ) and Invest the Difference " ? Yes , I sure do believe that fairytale and I 'm prospering quite well thank you . :) While I do n't think this is a scam , it 's outrageously expensive and not a good financial choice .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
Is it worth attending the meetings for these clubs typically Community is one of the reasons for joining an investment club . I would say that not attending the meetings would be counter to the whole point of being a part of one . Are they just fronts for sales operations ? ( Many are run by real estate agents . ) Not necessarily . That said , I would be wary of ones run by real estate agents , insurance agents , etc. . . Is there a sanctioning body that accredits or oversees these groups ? I do not think so . Though The Motley Fool mentions the <URL> . <URL> I think it will help answer many of your questions . They go into forming one , what to look for in an investment club and potential issues . They stress that investment clubs are about community , having fun , making investing accessible to the novice investor , pooling money for investment and making investing accessible to those without a large amount of money to invest . They also point out that it can help reduce the work load of researching investment ideas . Finally , they also state that organization is important to having a successful investment club .
end question
start question
Should you always rollover a 401k to a personal IRA after leaving a company ?
I 'm trying to think if there are any advantages to rolling over a 401k into a new company 's 401k , or leaving it in the old company 's 401k account ... Advantages of 401k ( either the old one or the new one ) : ( In the company where you 're currently employed ) you can take a loan from your 401k . Depending on the plan choices you may have funds with much lower expense ratios in 401k than are available to retail investors ( IRA ) . There are no <URL> from 401k . 401k balance does n't affect the IRA - > ROTH conversion ( <URL> ) . You can start withdrawals from 401k at the age of 55 , IRA - at the age of 60 . Disadvantages , as you mentioned , are fees and plan choices ' limitations . The decision is yours , but it 's not straight-forward . You 'll need to decide which trade-offs to make .
The benefit of multiple accounts - You might wish to have more beneficiary combinations than one account form will permit . You wish to buy a fund that 's part of a different broker 's free offering . If held in banks where the FDIC insurance limits might be an issue , separate banks might make sense . I 'll edit ( and invite others to ) if I think of others , but Dilip 's answer , ' no ' is correct . Taxwise , no benefit .
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
But would the IRS agree since the valuation at the probate action was $ 150k and since it was purchased by my mother prior ? The IRS will not agree , but not for the reason you think . Your father selling the house to you is what is called " related persons transaction " . There are very clear rules as to who recognizes the loss , and when . Assume your father has basis of $ 250K in the property . He sells it to you , his son , for $ 100K . I.e. : within your family , without transferring the asset outside of your family 's control , you generated a huge $ 150K loss . It would be reasonable for lawmakers to identify these transactions as a tax evasion scheme and disallow them . Which they did . So in this scenario ( father selling a house with basis of $ 250K to his son for $ 100K ) , the loss of $ 150K can not be recognized for taxes . I.e. : father will not deduct the loss on his tax returns . Instead , you ( the son ) will carry the the loss forward . When you sell the property , you 'll deduct that loss from whatever gain you 're going to have . Unless you sell it to your son , which would disallow the loss again . You get the picture . Get back to your scenario : your father has a " stepped-down " basis . I.e. : since the property was owned by his wife , when she passed away he gained control of it as part of the inheritance . His basis is the value at the time of death ( or 6 months after ) . I.e. : in your scenario , father 's basis is $ 150K , not $ 250K . So by selling to you at FMV - he 's not generating any loss at all ( which makes things simpler for you since there 's no disallowed loss to carry forward until you sell the property ) . Talk to a licensed tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) about the details .
The biggest reason why one might want to leave 401k money invested in an ex-employer 's plan is that the plan offers some superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere , e.g. some mutual funds that are not open to individual investors such as S&amp;P index funds for institutional investors ( these have expense ratios even smaller than the already low expense ratios of good S&amp;P index funds ) or " hot " funds that are ( usually temporarily ) closed to new investors , etc. . The biggest reason to roll over 401k money from an ex-employer 's plan to the 401k plan of a new employer is essentially the same : the new employer 's plan offers superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere . Of course , the new employer 's 401k plan must accept such roll overs . I do not believe that it is a requirement that a 401k plan must accept rollovers , but rather an option that a plan can be set up to allow for or not . Another reason to roll over 401k money from one plan to another ( rather than into an IRA ) is to keep it safe from creditors . If you are sued and found liable for damages in a court proceeding , the plaintiff can come after IRA assets but not after 401k money . Also , you can take a loan from the 401k money ( subject to various rules about how much can be borrowed , payment requirements etc ) which you can not from an IRA . That being said , the benefits of keeping 401k money as 401k money must be weighed against the usually higher administrative costs and usually poorer and more limited choices of investment opportunities available in most 401k plans as Muro has said already .
You 'll want to roll the 401k over to a specifically designated rollover IRA . Rollover IRAs differ from an ordinary IRA account because they have NO contribution limit per year . Also Rolling over a 401k to a Roth IRA has consequences . There wo n't be a penalty but you will have to pay taxes on the amount being rolled over . The choice of Roth or Traditional IRA depends on your current tax situation as well as your expected taxes at retirement . Typically if you are in a low tax bracket and expect to be in a higher tax bracket at retirement a Roth IRA is suggested as withdrawals are tax free . With a rollover conversion you will have to evaluate whether paying taxes now outweighs the potential benefits of tax free withdrawals when you retire .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
The short answer , probably not much . Unless you have a controlling interest in the company . If at least 50 % +1 of the shareholder votes are in favor of the dilution then it can be done . There are some SEC rules that should protect against corporate looting and theft like what the Severin side is trying to make it appear as happened . However it would appear that Severin did something stupid . He signed away all of his voting right to someone who would use them to make his rights basically worthless . Had he kept his head in the game he could probably have saved himself . But he didnt . If your average startup started issuing lots of stock and devaling existing shares signifigantly then I would expect it would be harder to find investors willing to watch as their investment dwindled . But if you are issuing a limited amount stock to get leverage to grow bigger then it is worth it . In the . com bubble there were quite a few companies that just issued stock to buy other companies . Eventually most of these companies got delisted because they diluted them selves to much when they were overvalued . Any company not just a startup can dilute its shares . Many if not most major companies issue stock to raise capital . This capital is then generally used to build the business further and increase the value of all shares . Most of the time this dilution is very minor ( < .1 % ) and has little if any impact on the stock . There are rules that have to be followed as listed companies are regulated by the SEC . There are less regulations with private corporations . It looks like the dilution was combined with the buyout of the Florida company which probably contributed to the legality of the dilution . With options they are generally issued at a set price . This may be higher or lower than the reported sell price of the stock when the option is issued . The idea is over time the stock will increase in value so that those people who hold on to their options can buy the stock for the price listed on the option . I worked at an ISP start up in the 90 's that made it pretty well . I left before the options were issued but I had friends still there that were issued an option at $ 16 a share the value of the stock at the time of the issue of the option was about 12 . Well the company diluted the shares and used them to aquire more ISP 's unfortunately this was about the time that DSL And cable internet took off so the dial up market tanked . The value eventually fell to .10 they did a reverse split and when they did the called in all options . The options did not have a positive cash value at any time . Had RMI ever made it big then the options could have been worth millions . There are some people from MS and Yahoo that were in early that made millions off of their options . This became a popular way for startups to attract great talent paying peanuts . They invested their time in the business hoping to strike gold . Alot of IT people got burned so this is less popular among top talent as the primary compensation anymore .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
You can contribute to both plans . But note : " Generally , all elective deferrals that you make to all plans in which you participate must be considered to determine if the dollar limits are exceeded . " The limit remains 16.5 K whether you contribute to one , two , or more plans . <URL>
This 2010 SEC rule seems to say that under extraordinary circumstances , a trade can be cancelled , by the exchange , any time after it was made : Release No. 34-62259 ; File No . SR-NYSEArca-2010-47 Rule 6.89 ... According to the proposal , in the event of any verifiable disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of any electronic communications and trading facilities of the Exchange , in which the nullification or modification of transactions may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors and the public interest exist , a Trading Official , on his or her own motion , may review such transactions and declare such transactions arising out of the use or operation of such facilities during such period null and void or modify the terms of these transactions , in accordance with the guidelines contained in sections ( a ) ( 3 ) ( C ) ( i ) ( aa ) - ( bb ) of Rule 6.87 . Pursuant to the proposal , the Trading Official , absent extraordinary circumstances , must initiate action under this authority within sixty ( 60 ) minutes of the occurrence of the erroneous transaction that was a result of the verifiable disruption or malfunction . [ Italics are mine . ] <URL> This rule seems to have gone into effect because it was cited in this news article : <URL> This is an interesting rule I had not known about previously , I wonder if it gives too much power to the exchange ...
Here are some other things to consider : You must pay the 401K loan back over a maximum of 5 years . Student loans are usually longer than this , so make sure your cash-flow can actually support the new payment timeline . The repayment of a 401K loan gets deducted directly from your paycheck , which may decrease the take-home pay you 're expecting . Not a deal-breaker , just something to be aware of . Many 401K plans wo n't let you make any further 401K contributions until you 've repaid the loan . You 'll miss out on some valuable tax-free investing because of that , which may include your employers match . There is a large opportunity cost to borrowing this money . Your long-term returns in your 401K may be lowered because you 'll be breaking the dollar cost average of your contributions . You still have to pay interest back to your 401K account on the money borrowed . This is usually prime + one or two percent . With prime currently at 3.25 % , do the math and make sure it makes sense in terms of the interest rates .
No , the IRR is n't how your funds are performing in the market unless you are putting in the max on Jan. 1 and then not adding or removing anything for the year so that it matches the total return of the fund . It 's a computation of what is your personal rate of return in terms of how much money have you put in , which is beginning balance plus contributions , compared to the ending balance factoring in any withdrawals . Thus it is how much each dollar you invested did over the course of the period that the return is given . Something to point out here is that if you are dollar-cost averaging then the IRR is a better measure of how your performance is as it is n't quite the same as the total return of the fund . Consider the case of a fund that goes up 10 % each month and you invest $ 100/month into the fund for an entire year , just to keep the Math simple here . The fund 's total return is ( 1.1 ) ^ 12 = 3.138428376721 which is 214 % . So , if you invested $ 1200 at the start of the year , you 'd have $ 3766.11 at the end of the year for a gain of $ 2566.11 . However , if we space out the computations , the end total becomes a mere $ 2352.27 , for a gain of $ 1152.27 , as the compounding is reduced . Thus , in this case your IRR is 96 % since you invested $ 1200 and made $ 1152.27 on it . For those wanting the raw figures , here is the $ 100/month returns at the end of each month : 110 231 364 .1 510.51 671.561 848.7171 1043.58881 1257.947691 1493.74246 1753.116706 2038.428377 2352.271214 In contrast , here is how the $ 1200 invested as a lump sum , does : 1320 1452 1597 .2 1756.92 1932.612 2125.8732 2338.46052 2572.306572 2829.537229 3112.490952 3423.740047 3766.114052 As the final totals are rather different , the rate of returns should also be quite different . The total returns are different because in one case , the person spaced out the purchases compared to the other case . These should n't both have the same return unless you 're going to factor in the time value of money somehow to make up the difference .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
401k contributions are exempt from federal ( and sometimes state ) income tax . They are not exempt from FICA . So the answer to your question is FICA taxes are applied before making the contribution .
You go public to raise money , to invest in the business and/or pay off the existing shareholders . It 's really as simple as that . The advantage of being public is that your shares can easily be bought and sold , and so you can issue and sell new ones and your existing shareholders can sell out if they want to . The disadvantage is that you are much more tightly regulated , with more disclosure requirements , and also that you are exposed to much more pressure from your shareholders to maintain and increase your share price .
It will be similar to what you have said -- the options price will adjust accordingly following a stock split - Here 's a good reference on different scenarios - <URL> also if you have time to read <URL>
I think you may be drawing the wrong conclusion about why you put what type of investment in a taxable vs. tax-advantaged account . It is not so much about risk , but type of return . If you 're investing both tax-advantaged and taxable accounts , you can benefit by putting more tax-inefficient investments inside your tax-advantaged accounts . Some aggressive asset types , like real estate , can throw off a lot of taxable income . If your asset allocation calls for investing in real estate , holding it in a 401k or IRA can allow more of your money to remain invested , rather than having to use it to pay for taxes . And if you 're holding in a Roth IRA , you get that tax free . But bonds , a decidedly non-aggressive asset , also throw off a lot of taxable income . You 're able to hold them in a tax-advantaged account and not pay taxes on the income until you withdraw it from the account ( or tax free in the case of a Roth account . ) An aggressive stock fund that is primarily expected to provide returns via price appreciation would do well in a taxable account because there 's likely little tax consequence to you until it is sold .
end question
start question
Stock goes bankrupt - what is CODI and should I worry about it ?
CODI is cancellation-of-debt income . Since BBEP is a partnership , the " income " generated from the cancellation of debt could potentially be passed back to the partners which could generate a tax liability to you . You would have to look at the books to determine the debt load per unit to understand what that might mean for your 1000 units . The most recent quarterly filing is here : <URL> From the books there is about $ 3.4 billion in total liabilities . There are several tranches of debt though and I 'm not sure how much of which tranche would be cancelled . It looks like there are about 213 million units which calculates to total liabilities of about $ 16 per unit . It 's not likely all of the debt will be cancelled , in fact its extremely unlikely .
Ok , I think what you 're really asking is " how can I benefit from a collapse in the price of gold ? " :-) And that 's easy . ( The hard part 's making that kind of call with money on the line ... ) The ETF is entirely physical gold sitting in a bank vault . In New York , I believe . You could simply sell it short . Alternatively , you could buy a put option on it . Even more risky , you could <URL> option on it . i.e. you receive the option premium up front , and if it expires worthless you keep the money . Of course , if gold goes up , you 're on the hook . ( Do n't do this . ) ( the " Do n't do this " was added by Chris W. Rea . I agree that selling naked options is best avoided , but I 'm not going to tell you what to do . What I should have done was make clear that your potential losses are unlimited when selling naked calls . For example , if you sold a single GLD naked call , and gold went to shoot to $ 1,000,000 / oz , you 'd be on the hook for around $ 10,000,000 . An unrealistic example , perhaps , but one that 's worth pondering to grasp the risk you 'd be exposing yourself to with selling naked calls . -- Patches ) Alternative ETFs that work the same , holding physical gold , are and . With those the gold is stored in London and Switzerland , respectively , if I remember right . Gold peaked around $ 1900 and is now back down to the $ 1500s . So , is the run over , and it 's all downhill from here ? Or is it a simple retracement , gathering strength to push past $ 2000 ? I have no idea . And I make no recommendations .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
The <URL> , titled " Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding " , certifies that you are not an American for tax purposes , so they wo n't withhold tax on your U.S. income . You 're also to use W-8BEN to identify your country of residence and corresponding tax identification number for tax treaty purposes . For instance , if you live in the U.K. , which has a tax treaty with the U.S. , your W-8BEN would indicate to the U.S. that you are not an American , and that your U.S. income is to be taxed by the U.K. instead of tax withheld in the U.S. I 've filled in that form a couple of times when opening stock trading accounts here in Canada . It was requested by the broker because in all likelihood I 'd end up purchasing U.S.-listed stocks that would pay dividends . The W-8BEN is needed in order to reduce the U.S. withholding taxes on those dividends . So I would say that the ad revenue provider is requesting you file one so they do n't need to withhold full U.S. taxes on your ad revenue . Detailed instructions on the W-8BEN form are also available from the IRS : <URL> . On the subject of ad revenue , Google also has some information about W8-BEN : <URL>
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
No logistics , just sign the title . Gifts under $ 14K ( as of 2015 ) ( total per year per person you give gifts to ) <URL> . If you 're not going to give any more cars to your sister this year - you 're good to go .
CODI is cancellation-of-debt income . Since BBEP is a partnership , the " income " generated from the cancellation of debt could potentially be passed back to the partners which could generate a tax liability to you . You would have to look at the books to determine the debt load per unit to understand what that might mean for your 1000 units . The most recent quarterly filing is here : <URL> From the books there is about $ 3.4 billion in total liabilities . There are several tranches of debt though and I 'm not sure how much of which tranche would be cancelled . It looks like there are about 213 million units which calculates to total liabilities of about $ 16 per unit . It 's not likely all of the debt will be cancelled , in fact its extremely unlikely .
You report it as an expense against the 1099 income when you do your taxes . You will only be taxed on the amount after the lawyers fees ( but if it cost you more in lawyers fees than you recover in damages , the loss is not deductible ) . Be sure to keep documentation of the lawyers bill and the contract . Compensatory damages are generally not taxable at all . You can see <URL> for more information on that .
There are two issues here : arithmetic and psychology . Scenario 1 : You are presently paying an extra $ 500 per month on your student loan , above the minimum payments . Your credit card company offers a $ 4000 cash advance at 0 % for 8 months . So you take the cash advance , pay it toward the student loan , and then instead of paying the extra $ 500 per month toward the student loan you use that $ 500 for 8 months to repay the cash advance . Net result : You pay 0 % interest on the loan , and save roughly 8 months times $ 4000 times the interest on the student loan divided by two . ( I say " divided by two " because it 's not the difference between $ 4000 and zero , but between $ 4000 and the $ 500 you would have been paying off each month . ) Clearly you are better off . If you are NOT presently paying an extra $ 500 on the student loan -- or even if you are but it is a struggle to come up with the money -- then the question becomes , can you reasonably expect to be able to pay off the credit card before the grace period runs out ? Interest rates on credit cards are normally much higher than interest rates on student loans . If you get the cash advance and then ca n't repay it , after 8 months you are paying a very steep interest rate , and anything you saved on the student loan will quickly be lost . What I mean by " psychological " is that you have to have the discipline to really repay the credit card within the grace period . If you 're not very confidant that you can do that , this plan could go bad very quickly . Personally , I 've thought about doing things like this many times -- cash advances against credit cards , home equity loans , etc , all give low-interest money that could be used to pay off a higher-interest debt . But it 's easy to get into trouble doing things like this . It 's easy to say to yourself , Well , I do n't need to put ALL the money toward that other debt , I could keep a thousand or so to buy that big screen TV I really need . Or to fail to pay back the low-interest loan on schedule because other things keep coming up that you spend your money on instead , whether frivolous luxuries or true emergencies . And there 's always the possibility that something will happen to mess up your finances , from a big car repair bill to losing your job . You do n't want to paint yourself into a corner . Finally , maxing out your credit cards hurts your credit rating . The formulas are secret , but I understand that if you use more than half your available credit , that 's a minus . How much it hurts you depends on lots of factors .
according to the Options Industry council ( <URL> ) put options the shares ( and therefore the options ) may continue trading OTC but if the shares completely stop trading then : if the courts cancel the shares , whereby common shareholders receive nothing , calls will become worthless and an investor who exercises a put would receive 100 times the strike price and deliver nothing . The reason for this is that it is not the company whose shares you have the option on that you have a contract with but the counterparty who wrote the option . If the counterparty goes bankrupt then you may not get paid out ( depending on assets available at liquidation - this is counterparty risk ) but , unless the two are the same , if the company whose shares you have a put option on declares bankruptcy then you will get paid
With the caveat that you should always read the fine print ... Generally , the high water mark is the absolute highest mark at end of any quarter ( sometimes month ) over all the quarters ( months ) in the past . Intra-quarter marks do n't matter . So , in your example the mark at the end of the second quarter would only be the new HWM if that mark is higher then the mark at the end of every previous quarter . Again , what happened in the middle of of the second quarter does n't matter . For hedge funds , the HWM may only be be from the date you started investing rather than over the whole history of the fund , but I would be surprised if that was true for any mutual funds . Though , as I may have mentioned , it is worth reading the fine print .
If I were you I would pay off these loans today . Here are the reasons why I would do this : Car Loan For car loans in particular , it 's much better to not pay interest on a loan since cars lose value over time . So the longer you hold the debt , the more you end up paying in interest as the car continues to lose value . This is really the opposite of what you want to do in order to build wealth , which is to acquire assets that gain value over time . I would also recommend that once you pay the loan , that you set aside the payment you used to make on the loan as savings for your next car . That way , you will be able to pay cash for your next car , avoiding thousands of dollars of interest . You will also be able to negotiate a better price by paying cash . Just by doing this you will be able to either afford to buy a nicer car with the same amount of money , or to put the extra money toward something else . Student Loan For the student loan , 3 % is a very low rate historically . However , the reason I would still pay these off is that the " return " you are getting by doing so is completely risk free . You ca n't often get this type of return from a risk-free investment instrument , and putting money in the stock market carries risk . So to me , this is an " easy " way to get a guaranteed return on your money . The only reason I might not pay this down immediately is if you have any other debt at a rate higher than 3 % . General Reasons to Get out of Debt Overall , one of the basic functions of lifetime financial planning is to convert income into assets that produce cash flow . This is the reason that you save for retirement and a house , so that when your income ends when you 're older these assets will produce cash , or in the case of the house , that you will no longer have to make rent payments . Similarly , paying off these debts creates cash flow , as you no longer have to make these payments . It also reduces your overall financial risk , as you 'd need less money to live on if you lost your job or had a similar emergency ( you can probably reduce your emergency fund a bit too ) . Discharging these loans will also improve your debt-to-income ratio if you are thinking of buying a house soon . I wonder whether as someone who 's responsible with money , the prospect of cutting two large checks feels like " big spending " to you , even though it 's really a prudent thing to do and will save you money . However , if you do pay these off , I do n't think you 'll regret it .
SOS is Secretary of State . SOS number is the number the Secretary of State office assigned to your entity . You can find it on the LLC application form that you submitted ( assuming you kept the copy of your application returned to you ) , or by <URL> ( the first column , " entity number " , is what you 're looking for ) .
To add to ChrisH 's response : In addition to front end load and back end load , there are also fund expenses for trading , management , administration , etc. . These expenses are rolled up and reported as the fund 's Management Expense Ratio ( MER ) . Furthermore , there are also funds that are sold on a No Load basis , which means you do n't pay either a front or back end load type of commission . However , MERs are always present . Funds may also pay trailer fees to the advisors that sell them . These are small commission amounts paid each year . All of these fees add up and can consume a significant portion of your expected investment return . For instance , if the fees total 2 % per annum and you expect to earn 8 % per annum , then 25 % of your expected returns are going to fees . ( Most people only consider the 2 % and think that 's small ; it is n't , when expressed in terms of your returns ! ) Prefer no-load funds with low MERs . Funds with loads and higher fees do n't outperform the market . Do your own research to convince yourself of this . Finally -- you can usually look up the fees for a fund in its simplified prospectus . Do n't buy a fund without understanding what it invests in , how it is managed , and what fees are charged for buying , holding , and selling it .
Companies with existing borrowings ( where borrowings are on variable interest rates ) or in the case with fixed interest rates - companies that get new borrowings - would pay less interest on these borrowings , so their cost will go down and profits up , making them more attractive to investors . So , in general lower interest rates will make the share market a more attractive investment ( than some alternatives ) as investors are willing to take on more risk for potentially higher returns . This will usually result in the stock market rising as it is currently in the US . EDIT : The case for rising interest rates A central bank 's purpose when raising interest rates is to slow down an economy that is booming . As interest rates rise consumers will tighten up their spending and companies will thus have less revenue on top of higher costs for maintaining existing borrowing ( with variable rates ) or new borrowing ( with fixed rates ) . If rates are higher companies may also defer new borrowings to expand their business . This will eventually lead to lower profits and lower valuation for these companies . Another thing that happens is that as banks start increasing interest for saving accounts investors will look for safety where they can get a higher return ( than before ) without the risk of the stock market . With lowering profits and valuations , and investor 's money flowing out of shares and into the money market , so will company share prices drop ( although this may lag a bit with the share market still booming due to greed . But once the boom stops watchout for the crash ) .
If one of the EURO countries goes bankrupt , then it will destablise the entire financial industry . IE there would be many financial institutions [ Banks , Credit Union , Pension Funds , Insurance Funds , Corporates ] that are holding EURO Investments in that country will loose their money and this will have a cascading impact ... similar and much bigger than US Sub-prime crisis of 2008 . So if your money is in EURO and you are staying in EURO countires , the inflation will mean your money is of less value ... If you are holding USD and staying in EURO and country goes bankrupt then chances are that it will loose value with USD and hence you can convert them to EURO and spend more EUROs to buy the same items ...
The company does n't necessarily have to go public . They can also be worth money if the company is acquired . Also keep in mind that even if the company does eventually go public , your shares can essentially be wiped out by a round of pre-IPO funding that gives the company a low valuation . You could ask : what is the size of the employee pool ? how many classes are outstanding ? was the last round up or down ? what is the mechanism to exercise your options ? can you exercise whenever you want ?
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
Nothing unusual for the federal taxes . Just include the amounts of both on your tax return ( line 7 of <URL> and so forth ) . If the jobs were in different states , then you may have extra work filing for taxes in two states .
Yes , DB pensions are " insured " by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) , a Federal Government Corporation created under ERISA ( Employee Retirement Income Security Act ) back in the '70s . It 's purpose is to provide protection to DB pension plan participants in the event of a sponsor 's bankruptcy , insolvency , or inability to fully fund a DB plan . In a sense the PBGC is analogous to the FDIC and similar governmental corporations . There are limitations as to what is protected and I found out that there are limitations to the protection for those in the airline industry , as some pilots that I know received reduced pensions from PBGC even though they had higher vested benefits . Perhaps other industries are affected as well . If you want to find out more about the PBGC and what it covers you can go to <URL>
end question
start question
What are futures and how are they different from options ?
Cart 's answer is basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A futures contract obligates both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlying transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price written into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction is to initiate a closing transaction , which means : The party that sold the contract buys back another similar contract to close his position . The party that bought the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provides the buyer of the option with the choice of completing the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price is not attractive relative to the underlying stock price at the date written into the contract . When an option buyer walks away , the option is said to have expired . However -- and this is the part I think needs elaboration -- the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract does n't have a choice . If a buyer chooses to exercise the option contract the seller wrote , the seller is obligated to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract is said to have been assigned . Only if the buyer chooses not to exercise does the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expires , the option seller can close their position by initiating a closing transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
The FDIC is pretty confident about them being legit . <URL> ( type in Bank Of The Sierra in the name field and search on that ) You got to realize how much money they will make if you use them per the agreement . Every credit card / debit transaction gets them some cash . <URL> even on debit cards . Then there is a flat fee the merchant pays for accepting the credit card between .25 and .50 per transaction . Even at 12 transactions a month , the bank is looking at making around $ 6/month . Probably more because who uses a debit card just 12 times a month . It would be convenient for most people to juse use it all the time . Does 4.09 % APY beat $ 6/month ? You would have to keep a balance of <URL> to cost more than you earn . And if you keep more than $ 2k in the account , they have other ways to make money off of you . I would also assume they make money on the bill pay and direct deposit side of things , but I ca n't speak for certain about that . Bottom line is this seems like a good deal to attract customers , they would rather make a bit less profit then BofA to grow their business . They are betting their offer restrictions will change your habits and make you more profitable to them .
I 've never seen a dividend , split or other corporate action during the day , but I have seen trade suspended a few times when something big happened . The market opening price is not in general the same as the close of the previous day . It can gap up or down and does frequently . I do n't know of an api to find out if the dividend was cash or stock , but stock dividends are a lot less common .
Since you did not treat the house as a QBU , you have to use USD as your functional currency . To calculate capital gains , you need to calculate the USD value at the time of purchase using the exchange rate at the time of purchase and the USD value at the time of sale using the exchange rate at the time of sale . The capital gain / loss is then the difference between the two . This link describes it in more detail and provides some references : <URL> That link also discusses additional potential complications if you have a mortgage on the house . This link gives more detail on the court case referenced in the above link : <URL> The court cases references Rev. Rul 54-105 . This link from the IRS has some details from that ( <URL> ) : Rev. Rul . 54-105 , 1954-1 C.B. 12 , states that for purposes of determining gain , the basis and selling price of property acquired by a U.S. citizen living in a foreign country should be expressed in United States dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing as of the dates of purchase and sale of the property , respectively . The text of this implies it is for U.S. citizen is living in a foreign country , but the court case makes it clear that it also applies in your scenario ( house purchased while living abroad but now residing in the US ) : Appellants agree that the 453,374 pounds received for their residence should be translated into U.S. dollars at the $ 1.82 exchange rate prevailing at the date of sale . They argue , however , that the 343,147 pound adjusted cost basis of the residence , consisting of the 297,500 pound purchase price and the 45,647 pounds paid for capital improvements , likewise should be expressed in U.S. dollar terms as of the date of the sale . Appellants correctly state that , viewed " in the foreign currency in which it was transacted , " the purchase generated a 110,227 pound gain as of the date of the sale , which translates to approximately $ 200,000 at the $ 1.82 per pound exchange rate . ... However fair and reasonable their argument may be , it amounts to an untenable attempt to convert their " functional currency " from the U.S. dollar to the pound sterling . ... Under I.R.C. § 985 ( b ) ( 1 ) , use of a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar is restricted to qualified business units ( " QBU " s ) . ... appellants correctly assert that their residence was purchased " for a pound-denominated value " while they were " living and working in a pound-denominated economy , " ... And since appellants concede that the purchase and sale of their residence was not carried out by a QBU , the district court properly rejected their plea to treat the pound as their functional currency .
If you can not get a satisfactory answer from the company , you can contact your local office of the <URL> . They can add pressure or give advice about how to overcome any remaining hurdles if the reason for delay is legitimate . I should probably also note that these accounts have significant reporting requirements , so it is possible that the delay is indeed a legitimate one .
Well , so long as the shares trade they are valued at greater than " worthless . " An important distinction . If truly worthless , you indicate a sell date of the day they were deemed worthless , and a sale price of zero . In your case , the broker should sell the shares for you . If the bid is zero and ask , say .1 cent , the broker should offer a courtesy purchase , i.e. they take the shares , so you can claim the loss . This loss is used to offset gains from other stocks you sold , if it 's greater than the gains , you take a $ 3000 loss again ordinary income and carry the rest forward , until you use it up against gains or $ 3000 each year .
Transfer of Millions of USD in and out is not possible for Individuals . There are limits on how much money an individual Indian Ordinary Citizen can send or receive . If an corporate wants to send money , depending on the services offered , they would have to initiate a SWIFT transaction . It typically takes 2-3 days for settlement of International wire .
Cart 's answer is basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A futures contract obligates both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlying transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price written into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction is to initiate a closing transaction , which means : The party that sold the contract buys back another similar contract to close his position . The party that bought the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provides the buyer of the option with the choice of completing the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price is not attractive relative to the underlying stock price at the date written into the contract . When an option buyer walks away , the option is said to have expired . However -- and this is the part I think needs elaboration -- the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract does n't have a choice . If a buyer chooses to exercise the option contract the seller wrote , the seller is obligated to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract is said to have been assigned . Only if the buyer chooses not to exercise does the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expires , the option seller can close their position by initiating a closing transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
Dividends are normally paid in cash , so do n't generally affect your portfolio aside from a slight increase to ' cash ' . You get a check for them , or your broker would deposit the funds into a money-market account for you . There is sometimes an option to re-invest dividends , See Westyfresh 's answer regarding Dividend Re-Investment Plans . As Tom Au described , the dividends are set by the board of directors and announced . Also as he indicated just before the ' record ' date , a stock which pays dividends is worth slightly more ( reflecting the value of the dividend that will be paid to anyone holding the stock on the record date ) and goes down by the dividend amount immediately after that date ( since you 'd now have to hold the stock till the next record date to get a dividend ) In general unless there 's a big change in the landscape ( such as in late 2008 ) most companies pay out about the same dividend each time , and changes to this are sometimes seen by some as ' indicators ' of company health and such news can result in movement in the stock price . When you look at a basic quote on a ticker symbol there is usually a line for Div/yeild which gives the amount of dividend paid per share , and the relative yeild ( as a percentage of the stock price ) . If a company has been paying dividends , this field will have values in it , if a company does not pay a dividend it will be blank or say NA ( depending on where you get the quote ) . This is the easiest way to see if a company pays a dividend or not . for example if you look at this quote for Google , you can see it pays no dividend Now , in terms of telling when and how much of a dividend has been paid , most financial sites have the option when viewing a stock chart to show the dividend payments . If you expand the chart to show at least a year , you can see when and how much was paid in terms of dividends . For example you can see from this chart that MSFT pays dividends once a quarter , and used to pay out 13 cents , but recently changed to 16 cents . if you were to float your mouse over one of those icons it would also give the date the dividend was paid .
The Case-Schiller macro derivatives market has seen very minimal activity . For example , in the three regional markets of San Diego ( SDG ) , Boston ( BOS ) and Los Angeles ( LAX ) on 28 November 2011 , there was zero trading volume , no trades settled , no open interest . Source : <URL> [ PDF ] for all 20 regional indices . Why have n't these real-estate futures caught on with investors ? Some new futures products are n't successful , for exogenous or marketing-related reasons ( not the case here , I do n't believe ) . Current economic uncertainty is discouraging proprietary traders from entering a new market , one with no prior history . Pension funds are the other plausible buyers of these products . Real estate derivatives offer a unique opportunity to mitigate risk concentration through more diversified holdings , while maintaining liquidity . Yet pension fund managers are unlikely to get approval to invest in a new security type now . Again , this would be due to high levels of uncertainty about the economy in general , as well as the uncertain effect of new Dodd-Frank related securities regulations . Keep in mind that the CME introduced these indices , with support from Professor Shiller <URL> several years ago . The CME seems committed to wait this out , as they have shown <URL> of dropping the Case-Shiller indices . There are alternative real-estate investment securities to the Case-Shiller indices . I do n't think the market of investors is so small that Case-Shiller has been , in effect , " crowded out " by them . I think it is more likely a matter of known quantities . Also , I do n't know how well these alternatives are doing ! Additional reference : CME spec 's for Case-Shiller index <URL> and <URL> contracts .
Tax . In the UK , for example , over 60 % of the price is tax .
Following up on this , here is what I did . First , I called my benefits provider . They had documentation of my election over the phone , which then allowed them to retroactively fix the problem . Had they not had this documentation , I would have been out of luck . Second , the next step for " fixing " occurred when I received my W-2 for this position . This W-2 mistakenly showed the amount for my medical FSA in box-10 of my W-2 as the same dependent care FSA . This requires calling/emailing my benefits and payroll department to get an updated W-2 ...
Yes you can rollover as many different 401ks into a single IRA account . I have done it personally and it really cuts down on the overhead of keeping up with lots of different accounts . Your brokerage or mutual fund company should be able to help you with it . If you are using a company that just gives you forms and those forms do n't mention an easy way to combine . Then I suggest rolling over one 401k first then once that 's finished you can rollover the other 401k into that same account .
You did the math correctly . You do n't lose the entire deduction for the sake of the FSA . But it does come off the top , so as you calculated , you still have $ 5000 to take as an itemized deduction .
In short as Victor mentioned , the rates for a pair of currency vary from Bank to Bank . Banks also give special rates if the amount to be converted is large . Unless you are receiving large amounts , hopping / shopping will not help . If you are getting paid in USD , i.e. that is what is agreed between you and your client , then the client 's bank would be doing the conversion . You are your Bank have no say in this . If you have agreed to get paid in the local currency of your client , then depending on the currency it may still get converted by the sending Bank or in-between . Say for example you are to get paid in Indonesian Rupiah IDR , the client 's Bank or its Correspondent would convert this into USD as IDR does n't get settled . If you are getting say GBP or EUR , then yes the conversion would typically be done by your bank . However it typically takes 2-4 days SWIFT Wire transfers , i.e. from the time your client initiates the transfers to the time it reaches your Bank . And no you ca n't go shopping after the Wire has arrived . If you want to do it before then unless the amounts involved are large , no Bank would commit a rate to you .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
VIV.PA - is Vivendi listed on a stock exchange in Paris VIVEF - is Vivendi listed on the OTC Other Exchange . VIVHY - is Listed on the OTC : Pink Sheets . A company can be listed on multiple exchanges , they are known as a dual-listed company . It 's a corporate structure in which two corporations function as a single operating business through a legal equalization agreement , but retain separate legal identities and stock exchange listings . Pretty much all DLCs are cross-border , and have tax advantages for the corporations and their stockholders . When a DLC is created , in essence two companies are created and have two separate bodies of shareholders , but they agree to share all the risks and rewards of the ownership of all their operating businesses in a fixed proportion , laid out in a contract called an " equalization agreement " . The shares of a DLC parents have claim to the exact same underlying cash flows . So in theory the stock prices of these companies should move exactly the same . However in practice there can be differences between these prices . More info on OTC exchanges can be found <URL> - keep in mind this info is from the company that runs these listings . Over the counter stocks are held to a FAR lesser regulation standard . I would recommend doing further interdependent research before pursuing any action .
" Liquidation preference " is a term borrowed from preferred equity , now applied to venture capital common equity . Preferred equity traditionally was a tool for banks to lessen the threat of credit while still protect profits . Preferred equity , in the event of a liquidation such as a bankruptcy , is paid before common equity , the stocks most are familiar with ; however , preferred equity does not share in the profits of the company , so its dividends are fixed . Further , preferred dividends may be suspended , but they must be first brought out of arrears until common shareholders can receive dividends and now buybacks . Now , venture capitalists have made a new distinction : their shares share in the profits and dividends , but they have priority in the event of a liquidation and often incomplete dividend payments . To get the details you desire , the <URL> has to be examined , and better yet , the 10-K from when these events are authorized by the board . On February 6 , 2014 , the shareholders voted in favor of increasing the authorized number of common shares issuable from 50,000,000 to 200,000,000 as well as the number of preferred shares issuable from 5,000,000 to 50,000,000 . So the total authorized for sale is 200,000,000 . However , after inspection , it does n't look like any of the common equity has liquidation preference , but the preferred equity is mostly convertible , which is far more common . A convertible preferred is one that is structured in all ways like preferred equity but can be converted on demand into common equity much like a call option . The converter must pay for this privilege at the time of conversion . Note 7 details all of the terms for each series of preferred shares . As for liquidation preference , traditional preferred shares are almost typically fully " secured " with liquidation preference , so in the event of a liquidation , they will receive their invested capital before the common shareholders . For convertible preferreds and venture capital common equity , the number is far lower because of all of the benefits presumably already accrued to those types of shares such as being able to convert or sharing in the profits . It should be noted that the price to call shares for a convertible preferred is normally at a very low bar and should be expected to dilute the common equity ; however , Spherix appears to be struggling and has many legacy preferreds with what seem to be unachievable convertible prices such as $ 250 per share .
IANAL , nor am I a financial professional . However , I 've just looked into this because of a relative 's death , and I have minor children . I am in the US . First , a named beneficiary on many accounts means that any proceeds are kept out of the estate and do not have to go through probate . That usually means that they 're available much more quickly . Second , a beneficiary statement trumps a will . The account may pay out long before a will is even filed with the probate court . Third , you can name a trust as the beneficiary . In this case , because you want to make sure the money goes to your children , that 's likely your best option .
Brazil is a <URL> . They use a <URL> , pronounced with a " V " , to open &amp; close the market and provide a venue to clear large orders as opposed to a continual double-sided auction that the rest of the world uses . The theory is that the value thus quantity of all bids shall equal all asks to discover an equilibrium price as opposed to the traditional <URL> theory that most in the developed and now rest of the world are familiar with . Therefore , to open &amp; close the market in Brazil or take part in large trades , traders initially bet blind or according to an initial price on the bids and asks then the exchange adjusts this price downward if an excess of supply or upward if an excess of demand , and the bids and asks are resubmitted with the process repeated until the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied where the auction finally clears , more or less matching all orders . During trading hours , continual double-sided auctions for small orders also take place . Walrasian auctions are a hangover from the <URL> days of Latin America , and ironically , Walrasian supply &amp; demand curves were subscribed to by <URL> thus " socialists " and " communists " of the time even though Walras 's theories mainly constructed <URL> thought which is a dominant theory in " capitalist " economics even though it was not intended to be applied to Marshallian curves . " Capitalists " tend to subscribe to the more well known Marshallian supply &amp; demand curves theory as the determination of equilibrium . The reason why Walrasian curves were chosen is because it is believed that they could help counteract the effects of Dependency , that the " artificially low " price resulting from Marshallian curves could be risen to " fair " prices . Neither theory has been extensively shown to be superior ; furthermore , they seem to produce the same equilibrium price with less variance for the Walrasians and more continuity for the Marshallians .
end question
start question
Are U.S. I Bonds good for extra savings ?
The main appeal of an I-bond is that the return rate is indexed for inflation . The rate is a combination of a fixed rate ( which is generally based on prevailing interest rates , and is currently VERY low ) and floating portion which is based on the current rate of inflation and adjusted every 6 months . . that inflation rate is where the current return on the I-bonds is coming from right now , and was due to a pretty fortuitous timing of when they set those rates and a sort of inflation hiccup that happened around the same time . BTW if the inflation rate is zero , or negative at the next repricing period for those bonds , the yeild would drop to zero percent . ( ibonds will never have a negative yeild ) TIPS ( Treasury Inflation Protected Securities ) are similar in many ways to I-Bonds and are another means of gaining inflation protection . The mechanics are a little different , but the net effect still amounts to a base rate , plus an adjustment for inflation . See this <URL> to understand the differences between them . To gain bit of perspective you might want to view <URL> . People who have been really happy with I-bonds , are generally those who bought them when they had higher base rates than the current ones . I-Bonds are not ' tax free ' however they can be ' tax deferred ' . ( depends on what you do with the interest ) This means they can grow in value tax free ( giving you a higher rate of return than if you had to pay taxes every year on the interest ) but you will still end up paying taxes down the road ( very similar to a 401K , or standard IRA ) . . BTW , this means there is ZERO value in putting these inside a IRA or 401K ( TIPS might be a better choice in that case ) Are they for you ? Depends on what you think will happen with Inflation . There are voices in the market that insist that all the money being pumped into the system right now to foster a recovery will cause insane crazy run-away inflation down the road . ( others feel that will only happen if the fed is n't on the ball and does n't raise rates fast enough once things turn around ) . It should be noted that many such talking-heads have been forcasting runaway inflation very soon for a few years how , and it 's yet to come true . Anyone that bet on high inflation 2 years ago , has been mostly disappointed so far . To the extent you fear inflation might consume a lot of your hard earned funds or just want a Hedge against inflation , then i-bonds and TIPS are an excellent way to mitigate that risk . However , with a zero base rate right now , if you invest in these , you are basically betting everything on inflation , and if it stays low , you 'll be sorry . ( however if it spikes , you 'll be sitting pretty ) If you feel the current Fed leadership are ' on the ball ' and wo n't let inflation get out of control , do n't feel any need to ' hedge ' that bet , then you are likely to want to invest somewhere else .
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
If possible , I would open a Canadian bank account with a bank such as TD Canada Trust . You can then have your payments wired into that account without incurring costs on receipt . They also allow access to their US ATM network via TD Bank without additional costs . So you could use the American Affiliate to pull the funds out via a US teller while only bearing the cost of currency conversion . If that option ca n't work then the best route would be to choose a US bank account that does n't charge for incoming wire transfers and request that the money be wired to your account ( you 'll still get charged the conversion rate when the wire is in CAD and the account is in USD ) .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
About 10 years ago , I used to use <URL> which was a very sound tool , with a large number of indicators , but it has been a number of years since I have used it , so my comments on it will be out of date . At the time it relied upon me purchasing trading data myself , which is why I switched to Incredible Charts . I currently use <URL> which I have done for a number of years , initially on the free adware service , now on the $ 10/year for EOD data access . There are quicker levels of data access , which might suit you , but I ca n't comment on these . It is web-based which is key for me . The data quality is very good and the number of inbuilt indicators is excellent . You can build search routines on the basis of specific indicators which is very effective . I 'm looking at <URL> , as a replacement for ( or in addition to ) Incredible Charts , as it has very powerful backtesting routines and the ability to run test portfolios with specific buy/sell criteria that can simulate and backtest a number of trading scenarios at the same time . The advantage of all of these is they are not tied to a particular broker .
Can I sell section 54EC infra bonds before maturity ? That would depend on the specific bond , some can be sold before maturity but after the specified lock-in period . Some are non-negotiable / non-transferable and can not be sold before maturity The prospectus mentions that bonds in physical form can be transferred to another person or entity . Are there financial institutions that offer to buy these bonds ? How do I find them ? Banks will not do this . Any leading broker can help assist you in finding a buyer . Generally you may not find a good deal and the buyer does n't get any tax benefit and would buy this only for returns and hence may want to buy this cheaper . The broker can assist you with the process , it involves sending of the physical certificate along with a letter and ownership details of new buyer to the registrar of the respective entity . A new certificate will be issued to the new owner .
The main appeal of an I-bond is that the return rate is indexed for inflation . The rate is a combination of a fixed rate ( which is generally based on prevailing interest rates , and is currently VERY low ) and floating portion which is based on the current rate of inflation and adjusted every 6 months . . that inflation rate is where the current return on the I-bonds is coming from right now , and was due to a pretty fortuitous timing of when they set those rates and a sort of inflation hiccup that happened around the same time . BTW if the inflation rate is zero , or negative at the next repricing period for those bonds , the yeild would drop to zero percent . ( ibonds will never have a negative yeild ) TIPS ( Treasury Inflation Protected Securities ) are similar in many ways to I-Bonds and are another means of gaining inflation protection . The mechanics are a little different , but the net effect still amounts to a base rate , plus an adjustment for inflation . See this <URL> to understand the differences between them . To gain bit of perspective you might want to view <URL> . People who have been really happy with I-bonds , are generally those who bought them when they had higher base rates than the current ones . I-Bonds are not ' tax free ' however they can be ' tax deferred ' . ( depends on what you do with the interest ) This means they can grow in value tax free ( giving you a higher rate of return than if you had to pay taxes every year on the interest ) but you will still end up paying taxes down the road ( very similar to a 401K , or standard IRA ) . . BTW , this means there is ZERO value in putting these inside a IRA or 401K ( TIPS might be a better choice in that case ) Are they for you ? Depends on what you think will happen with Inflation . There are voices in the market that insist that all the money being pumped into the system right now to foster a recovery will cause insane crazy run-away inflation down the road . ( others feel that will only happen if the fed is n't on the ball and does n't raise rates fast enough once things turn around ) . It should be noted that many such talking-heads have been forcasting runaway inflation very soon for a few years how , and it 's yet to come true . Anyone that bet on high inflation 2 years ago , has been mostly disappointed so far . To the extent you fear inflation might consume a lot of your hard earned funds or just want a Hedge against inflation , then i-bonds and TIPS are an excellent way to mitigate that risk . However , with a zero base rate right now , if you invest in these , you are basically betting everything on inflation , and if it stays low , you 'll be sorry . ( however if it spikes , you 'll be sitting pretty ) If you feel the current Fed leadership are ' on the ball ' and wo n't let inflation get out of control , do n't feel any need to ' hedge ' that bet , then you are likely to want to invest somewhere else .
<URL> references a product at least in terms of being a bond fund that exists , Target Date Bond ETFs . While the article is a bit old as it came out 7 months ago , " AMT Free Municipal Bonds by iShares " would be the product to explore and see if the ticker exists . <URL> may be the product you want assuming a 5 year time frame as the final date referenced in the article is Aug. 31 , 2018 approximately . Remember to do your own research but this would seem to be what you wanted .
4.7 is a pretty low rate , especially if you are deducting that from your taxes . If you reduce the number by your marginal tax rate to get the real cost of the money you end up with a number that is n't far off from inflation , and also represents a pretty low ' yield ' in terms of paying off the loan early . ( e.g. if your marginal tax rate is 28 % , then the net you are paying in interest after the tax deduction is 4.7 * .72 = 3.384 ) While I 'm all for paying off loans with higher rates ( since it 's in effect the same as making that much risk free on the money ) it does n't make a lot of sense when you are down at 3.4 unless there is a strong ' security factor ' ( which really makes a difference to some folks ) to be had that really helps you sleep at night . ( to be realistic , for some folks close to retirement , there can be a lot to be said for the security of not having to worry about house payments , although you do n't seem to be in that situation yet ) As others have said , first make sure you have enough liquid 'em ergency money ' in something like a money market account , or a ladder of short term CD 's If you are sure that the sprouts will be going to college , then there 's a lot to be said for kicking a decent amount into a 529 , Coverdell ESA ( Educational Savings Account ) , uniform gift to minors account , or some combination of those . I 'm not sure if any of those plans can be used for a kid that has not been born yet however . I 'd recommend <URL> as a good starting point to get more information on your various options . As with retirement savings , money put in earlier has a lot more ' power ' over the final balance due to compounding interest , so there 's a lot to be said for starting early , although depending on what it takes to qualify for the plans there could be such a thing as too early ;-) ) . There 's nothing wrong with Managed mutual funds as long as the fund objective and investing style is in alignment with your objectives and risk tolerance ; The fund is giving you a good return relative to the market as a whole ; You are not paying high fees or load charges ; You are not losing a lot to taxes . I would always look at the return after expenses when comparing to other options , and if the money is not in a tax deferred account , also look at what sort of tax burden you will be faced with . A fund that trades a lot will generate more short term gains which means more taxes than compared to a more passive fund . Anything lost to taxes is money lost to you so needs to come out of the total return when you calculate that . Sometimes such funds are better off as a choice inside an IRA or 401K , and you can instead use more tax efficient vehicles for money where you have to pay the taxes every year on the gains . The reason a lot of folks like index funds better is that : The majority of managed funds do n't manage to beat the indexes Lots of good no-load and low expense options abound , including in ETF form . The lack of short term trades means the tax burden is way lower , making them good for investments outside of a tax deferred accounts . Once you subtract management fees and money paid out for taxes , even fewer managed funds yeild the same net return on investment that a low cost index fund does . Given your described age , it 's not appropriate now , but in the long run as you get closer to retirement , you may want to start looking at building up some investments that are geared more towards generating income , such as bonds , or depending on taxes where you live , Municipal bonds . In any case , the more money you can set aside for retirement now , both inside and outside of tax deferred accounts , the sooner you will get to the point of the ' critical mass ' you need to retire , at that point you can work because you want to , not because you have to .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
Significantly less effort to buy into any of several international bond index funds . Off the top of my head , VTIBX .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
Kiplinger 's has an article about <URL> , but the catch is you need to have 100,000 approx ( or more ) to invest in the bonds . ( hence the ' wealthy ' adjective before the investors in the NYTimes story ) . Everbank also apparently lets you do it with <URL> but their selection seems to be small . It appears you can also buy them directly from the <URL> even as a non-resident . An easier , close approximation would be to buy currencyshares ETFs . Here 's the Australian one : <URL> . And finally , here 's a <URL> .
If your question is truly just What is good growth ? Is there a target return that 's accepted as good ? I assumed 8 % ( plus transaction fees ) . Then I 'd have to point out that the <URL> since 1900 . You can buy an S&amp;P ETF for .05 % / yr expense . If your goal is to lag the S&amp;P by 1.7 % / yr over the long term , you can use a 85/15 mix of S&amp;P and cash , sleep well at night , and avoid wasting any time picking stocks .
Emergency funds are good to keep yourself out of debt , for whatever reason . Job loss is a big place where an emergency fund can help you out . It buys you time to find another job before hauling out the credit cards for your groceries , falling behind on your mortgage and car payments , etc. . But it can just as easily be used for major car repairs , serious medical issues , home repairs , etc. ... anything that needs to be done quickly , and is n't a discretionary item . The bigger your cash reserves , the better , especially now that the economy is bad .
A 2.5 % fee is standard , and you 're not likely to avoid a transaction fee when withdrawing cash from an ATM . You 'd do better to get foreign currency before leaving the US , or to use a credit card abroad . Capital One has a credit card with no fee on foreign-currency purchases , for example . Another option is to open a bank account in the foreign currency , if you go to a particular country often enough to make it worthwhile .
I found a way to do this , but it 's slightly backwards . Quicken does not allow you to make a graph of just your income , probably because that would be a fairly boring graph for most people . But it does allow you to do a graph of your expenses . Doing so , while including income categories , will produce the graph I want , but with negative numbers ( savings is negative spending ) . Go to Reports - > Reports and Graph Center in the main menu . In the Quicken Standard Reports section , go to Spending by Category Click the Customize button . On the Customize Spending by Category window , on the Categories tab , add all Income and Expense categories ( but no Bank categories ) . Click Show Graph . Set the Column to Month . This will switch it from a pie chart to a bar graph This will show a bar graph of overall spending , counting income as Negative Spending . So , having negative bars is good in this case .
Here is one from a Bloomberg partnership , it is <URL> . To get the end of day prices , you may need some programming done . PM me if you need help with that . Getting bond quotes and general information about a bond issue is considerably more difficult than researching a stock or a mutual fund . A major reason for this is that there is not a lot of individual investor demand for the information ; therefore , most bond information is available only through higher level tools that are not accessible to the average investor . Read more : Where can I get bond market quotes ? | Investopedia <URL>
The Economist aggregates data from financial lenders around the world . <URL> is their most recent analysis , but they also have a data site where you can play around and view <URL> .
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
end question
start question
Effect of home country inflation vs. resident country inflation on immigrant 's assets ?
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
All of the above . There are <URL> . Generally the " people with clipboards " is the most reliable , but is also the most expensive , so some might be getting the data directly from the retailers with some <URL> for verification . The " margin of error " percentage is directly related to the method chosen .
When the government and the media report inflation , they are just reporting the annualized rate . If you calculated the compounded value over any length of time it becomes very scary . Also this is why we all have heard stories from older people about normal items costing virtually nothing 40 or 50 years ago . <URL> article explains the compounding effect pretty well .
If the value of these hard assets is significant you probably have them insured , and for significant art work you should have had them appraised as part of getting them insured . Therefore the process of adding them into the net worth calculation would be trivial . Your goals should be a mix of liquid assets , and assets that are harder to sell , such as real estate . It should also include those items you are more reluctant to sell . In some cases these " investments " do need to be included in official calculations , such as applying for a student loan or financial aid , required financial disclosure statements for some government jobs , or applications for government assistance .
Assuming you 're in the US , you can also access CPI for major cities / regions . The US Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) publishes a PDF each month with details on how prices of services , food , and other goods has increased or decreased : <URL>
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
Listing on NYSE has more associated overhead costs than listing on NASDAQ . In the case of young technology companies , this makes NASDAQ a more attractive option . Perhaps the most important factor is that NYSE requires that a company has an independent compensation committee and an independent nominating committee while NASDAQ requires only that executive compensation and nominating decisions are made by a majority of independent directors . No self-respecting , would-be-instant-billionare tech entreprenuer is going to want some independent committee lording it over their pay packet . Additionally , listing on NYSE requires a company have stated guidance for corporate governance while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Similarly , NYSE requires a company have an internal audit team while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Fees on NYSE are also a bit higher than NASDAQ , but the difference is not significant . A good rundown of the pros/cons : <URL>
The Wall Street Journal says in its " For Consumers " section of its infographic : it increases FDIC insurance amounts to $ 250,000 ( making a temporary increase permanent ) it makes lenders verify income , credit history , and job status before selling a mortgage , and also " bans payments to brokers for steering borrowers to high-priced loans " There 's also some new agencies ( including a " consumer watchdog agency " ) , and some new rules the SEC can implement , and it lets state pass more laws affecting national banks , but it does n't look like there 's much in particular that it does for consumers right away . Source - <URL>
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
In theory , anything can happen , and the world could end tomorrow . However , with a reasonably sane financial plan you should be able to ride this out . If the government can not or wo n't immediately pay its debt in full , the most immediate consequence is that people are going to be unwilling to lend any more money in future , except at very high rates to reflect the high risk of future default . Presumably the government has got into this state by running a deficit ( spending more than they collect in tax ) and that is going to have to come to an abrupt end . That means : higher taxes , public service retrenchments and restrictions of service , perhaps cuts to social benefits , etc. . Countries that get into this state typically also have banks that have lent too much money to risky customers . So you should also expect to see some banks get into trouble , which may mean customers who have money on deposit will have trouble getting it back . In many cases governments will guarantee deposits , but perhaps only up to a particular ceiling like $ 100k . It would be very possible to lose everything if you have speculative investments geared by substantial loans . If you have zero or moderate debt , your net wealth may decrease substantially ( 50 % ? ) but there should be little prospect of it going to zero . It is possible governments will simply confiscate your property , but I think in a first-world EU country this is fairly unlikely to happen to bank accounts , houses , shares , etc. . Typically , a default has led to a fall in the value of the country 's currency . In the eurozone that is more complex because the same currency is used by countries that are doing fairly well , and because there is also turbulence in other major currency regions ( JPY , USD and GBP ) . In some ways this makes the adjustment harder , because debts ca n't be inflated down . All of this obviously causes a lot of economic turbulence so you can expect house prices to fall , share prices to gyrate , unemployment to rise . If you can afford it and come stomach the risk , it may turn out to be a good time to buy assets for the long term . If you 're reasonably young the largest impact on you wo n't be losing your current savings , but rather the impact on your future job prospects from this adjustment period . You never know , but I do n't think the Weimar Republic wheelbarrows-of-banknotes situation is likely to recur ; people are at least a bit smarter now and there is an inflation-targeting independent central bank . I think gold can have some room in a portfolio , but now is not the time to make a sudden drastic move into it . Most middle class people can not afford to have enough gold to support them for the rest of their life , though they may have enough for a rainy day or to act as a balancing component . So what I would do to cope with this is : be well diversified , be sufficiently conservatively positioned that I would sleep at night , and beyond that just ride it out and try not to worry too much . Do n't have all your cash savings in a single bank . Consider putting some money into a managed fund or ETF that invests outside of your country . This is easier to set up than a foreign bank account ( ymmv ) and diversifies against currency and local market risk . Live within your means . Keep your savings well diversified across location ( home/abroad ) , asset class ( cash/bonds/shares / property/gold ) , and institution .
In general , you most definitely can . In some cases you must . However for each State you 'll have to check whether you can choose how to depreciate . Many States require you to take the same depreciation as on the Federal schedule , including Sec . 179 , others wo n't allow Sec . 179 at all . Specifically to PA , I have n't found any current guidance , but <URL> in the bucket that requires you to take the same Sec . 179 on the State return as appears on your Federal return . If you elect to expense Section 179 Property for FIT purposes , you are required to expense the property for PIT purposes . However PA limit for Sec . 179 is $ 25K , so if your Federal deduction is larger - you can depreciate the rest . Check with a PA-licensed CPA or EA for a more reliable opinion , since I 'm not a tax adviser . Just googled it .
Be ruthlessly meticulous about the <URL> . If it 's allowed , it 's allowed .
Inflation is good for the economy primarily because it is an incentive to invest . If inflation is occurring , then keeping your holdings in cash is a net loser ; 5 % inflation means that in a year , your $ 100 is now worth $ 95.24 ( 1/1 .05 ) , so unless you 're getting really good interest , that 's a bad thing . On the other hand , if you invested that $ 100 in a business , you can outgain inflation more easily since inflation should drive the business 's profits . Deflation ( negative inflation ) , on the other hand , is bad for investing because it encourages holding cash . If deflation of 5 % occurs , then you can get a 5 % ROI by simply holding onto twenty dollar bills ; why would you invest in a business that was in a deflationary economy ( and thus would likely earn less money ) ? Mild inflation also increases flexibility in the economy , because businesses make a little more money ( in terms of denominated money ) ; that allows them more flexibility in expansion . Salaries for some also go up , meaning that spending goes up , and often with more flexibility in how those salaries are spent ; inflation does n't hit all sectors exactly the same , so often this leaves significant portions of the middle class with more money to spend ( and thus driving economic growth ) . More than salary growth , though , inflation seems to drive job creation . From the New York Times , <URL> quotes <URL> which shows that job creation tends to be more significant than rising salaries during periods of low inflation ( ie , what we 're talking about here ) . Salary increases will come here largely from job seeking rather than raises , because businesses do n't tend to cut wages and thus are reticent to significantly raise salaries ; they 'd rather just hire more people , and then cut jobs when the economy weakens ( or inflation drops ) . This is even more true in low wage jobs , such as minimum wage positions , where wages can not be cut but salary increases have little real effect on job retention ; it 's easier to change the number of hours for PT employees , or the number of PT/FT employees . Deflation , on the other hand , leads to decreased flexibility , layoffs , and lower consumer spending . While it sounds good to say ' hey , prices are going down ! ' to your average consumer , you have to keep in mind that those prices are what keep the businesses going that drive our economy and pay your salary ( either directly or indirectly ) . If your employer started making 5 % less per year , do you think they 'd keep you employed ? Maybe not , and at the bottom ( service industries , fast food restaurants , grocers , etc. ) there would be significant cutbacks if deflation hit them . I would note that 5 % inflation is probably a bit high ; most economists like 2 % to 3 % , and the Federal Reserve has said that <URL> . They 're mostly concerned with avoiding deflation , as that 's a big risk to the economy ; the advantages of mild inflation are relatively minor , compared to the damages of deflation , and tend to be more correlations ( you get mild inflation in a good economy , as much or more than you need mild inflation for a good economy ) . Most important , probably , is consistent inflation . Consumers and businesses can act rationally if the inflation rate is relatively stable and predictable . When inflation jumps or drops , it changes the potential outcomes for choices made by investors , consumers , and businesses , meaning choices they made in the past are now suboptimal ; if the inflation rate is jumping around ( 1 % one year , 4 % another , -1 % the next ) investors , businesses , and consumers will be relatively conservative in their choices , which leads to a bad economy .
Growth phase When you 're estimating how much you 'll have saved at retirement , subtract the average rate of inflation from your estimate of how much your savings will grow each year . For example , if you expect your retirement account to grow at 8 % a year , and you expect inflation to be 3 % each year , use 5 % as the estimated growth rate instead of 8 % . Withdrawal phase Once you reach retirement , add an estimate for the inflation rate to your annual withdrawal rate . For example , say you 've reached retirement with $ 1 million . If you expect to withdraw 4 % each year , but you expect inflation to average 1 % each year after you retire , plan on withdrawing 5 % a year instead of 4 % . This lets you adjust for the decrease in the purchasing power of your money . For example , you may spend $ 40K/year to maintain your current lifestyle . However , depending on your age , $ 40K a year might not be enough to maintain that lifestyle at retirement because of the effects of inflation . At retirement , you might need $ 50K instead . <URL> to the question " Saving for retirement : How much is enough ? " is also worth a read too .
My answer at <URL> offers a bit of detail , but the bottom line is that Utilization is aggregate . My $ 10,000 limit card is fine to push to $ 8K each month only because my other lines add up to quite a bit , so utilization is 10 % or so . I recommend you look at <URL> , they offer a score that tracks the scores you see , and it 's updated weekly . A good tool , at no cost .
No . You 're entitled to 1 % of votes at the shareholders ' meeting ( unless there 's class division between shareholders , that is ) . If more than 50 % of the shareholders vote to close the company , sell off its assets and distribute the proceeds to the owners - you 'll get 1 % share of the distributions .
I 've never done a balance transfer but I do n't think you 'll end up owing less immediately after the transfer . If you 're transferring $ 5,000 , and the transfer fee is 2 % ( $ 100 ) , you 'd either send them a check for $ 100 to transfer the $ 5,000 , or you 'd end up with a balance of $ 5,100 immediately after the transfer . It would n't be $ 4,900 . Your effective rate will also depend on how you pay off the loan . If you pay off just the minimum amount each time it 's due , and then pay off the rest at the end of the 200 days ( or 365 days ) then you 'll pay more than if you throw a big chunk at the balance at the beginning . Let 's say that you amortize this over 12 months , and make 12 equal payments . Using <URL> , with a balance of $ 5,100 and an interest rate of 4 % , you 'd make twelve payments of $ 434.26 ( plus or minus ) and pay $ 111.12 in interest . Add this to the $ 100 fee , and your effective rate is about 4.1 % . Now , if you make twelve payments of $ 102 ( 2 % of the initial balance ) , and pay off the balance ( a little over $ 4000 ) in the 12th month , you 'll pay almost twice as much interest ( $ 198.63 ) and your effective APR will be almost 6 % .
The United States taxes nonresident aliens on two types of income : First , a nonresident alien who is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is taxed on income that is effectively connected with that trade or business . Second , certain types of U.S.-source payments are subject to income tax withholding . The determination of when a nonresident alien is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is highly fact-specific and complex . However , keeping assets in a U.S. bank account should not be treated as a U.S. trade or business . A nonresident alien 's interest income is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30 percent under Section 1441 of the tax code . Interest on bank deposits , however , benefit from an exception under Section 1441 ( c ) ( 10 ) , so long as that interest is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business . Even though no tax needs to be withheld on interest on a bank deposit , the bank should still report that interest each year to the IRS on Form 1042-S . The IRS can then send that information to the tax authority in Brazil . Please keep in mind that state and local tax rules are all different , and whether interest on the bank deposits is subject to state or local tax will depend on which state the bank is in . Also , the United States does tax nonresident aliens on wages paid from a U.S. company , if those wages are treated as U.S.-source income . Generally , wages are U.S.-source income if the employee provides services while physically present in the United States . There are a few exceptions to this rule , but they depend on the amount of wages and other factors that are specific to the employee 's situation . This is an area where you should really consult with a U.S. tax advisor before the employment starts . Maybe your company will pay for it ?
Why does n't it seem right to you ? The lender financed the house and has the first right claim ( mortgage ) on it , so if you have any insurance proceeds they 're first offsetting your debt to the lender . Same as if you were selling the house - first the loan is paid off , whatever is left goes to you . If the property is not lost , then the proceeds are going to you and you keep paying the mortgage . So if a pipe burst and you need to replace the flooring , the insurance will cover it , and you 'll get the proceeds . If the building is lost and you 're paid the fair market/rebuild value , then you first need to pay off the mortgage . Its standard .
end question
start question
How does unemployment insurance work ?
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
An article linked from <URL> has some great advice , which I think are good rules of thumb . Do n't file a small claim . A claim should be at least $ 200 beyond your deductible before you file , and quite possibly further . Stick with one company . They are more likely to forgive than if you switch companies constantly . If your Homeowners and Auto insurance are through the same provider , they are less likely to want to lose you business Keep your home safe , such that you are less likely to need insurance claims . Put in burglary protection , trim trees , etc. . Also , at least my insurance gives a premium price for those who have n't filed a claim in 5 or more years for homeowners or rental insurance . See if you have a similar discount , will loose it , and guess how much that will cost you over 5 years . My rule of thumb : Your premium might go up quite a bit , possibly as much as triple , especially for a large claim . But , it is certainly worth it if you are going to get more than triple your premium through your claim . The worst case : Mortgage mandated insurance , which will be about triple your current cost .
According to the state of New York , you may be eligible for unemployment . <URL> Unless excluded by law , all services an employee performs for a liable employer is covered . This applies whether it is : Part-time Full-time Temporary Seasonal Casual Employees may perform services : On or off the employer 's premises In their own homes But what 's " excluded by law " ? Excluded employment : The services of certain employees are not covered under the Unemployment Insurance ( UI ) Law . Their earnings are not subject to contribution . They are not entitled to UI benefits based on such services . You 'll need to view the full list to see if you are supposed to be covered or excluded , based upon the sector of your employment . But generally , most people are covered . Note that , at least in the state of New York , even part time , tempory , or seasonal/casual workers are covered by unemployment . If you are not clearly excluded , then it is absolutely likely to be worth your time to file for unemployment , you can be done online at <URL> . Note that you are expected to do this " promptly " ( ideally in the first week you are informed you are laid off ) , and there is a minimum week " waiting period " before you receive any money at all . However , so long as you are honest and provide the paperwork they request , the worst they can do is tell you that you are n't eligible , and you 've just lost a little time . In closing , please remember that unemployment benefits are insurance - if you are eligible both you and your employer have been paying money into the system . This is not some kind of welfare or charity - it is insurance you have been paying into for years ( if you have been - otherwise you are n't eligible at all ) , and you should not hesitate to make a claim when you are able to do so . Oh , and to answer your final question - yes , if you get a new job or are hired back you will just notify the unemployment service and they will discontinue paying you based on their timing policy ( it might be after your first day of new work , or some period after that - laws vary , so check with the Department of Labor to be sure so you can plan your finances accordingly ) . Good luck on the application and your job hunt !
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
I 'm assuming you mean the H&amp;R Block ' tax centers ' they typically set up in a mall . I used their services once . My experience may not match yours and may not be typical . Essentially , the H&amp;R Block " tax expert " is someone trained to use the H&amp;R Block tax software . This is similar to TurboTax and other such software . You are paying this person to follow prompts on the computer and input the answers you provide , just like TurboTax and similar software works . My " tax expert " was unable to answer basic tax questions and could not even operate her calculator properly . In every way , the experience was worse than just using TurboTax on my own computer . Now , this service may make sense for you if , for example , you can not operate a computer or can not see well enough to read the information on your tax documents . You may also prefer the H&amp;R Block tax software over all other competing products , though in this case , you may wish to just use the software online or download it , rather than paying a " tax expert " to run it on your behalf . It 's also certainly the case that many " tax experts " are actually fully-fledged accountants who are just picking up some work on the side . If your taxes are significantly more complicated , you would do well to hire an accountant who specialises in tax returns . There will almost certainly be very many in your community . This will certainly cost more than this year 's tax software , but may well be a good option for you .
Third party car insurance covers the car driver 's entire liability to others , so yes it would cover this case . Even if the car driver was uninsured or by some unlikely chance his insurance refused to pay , he is still personally liable for any damage caused by an accident that is his fault ( which seems to be implied/admitted here ) . As a car driver he is legally obliged to give the details of his insurance coverage to anyone like you with good reason to ask for it , so if he is being difficult you should demand this information and deal with his insurer directly . Note that if you were at all injured the car driver ought to have also reported the incident to the police ( though realistically he may not have done this ) . You also may wish to go to them yourself , whether or not you were injured , if you have any difficulty getting the insurance details .
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
After he adds you to his policy , pay the difference in cost with you on the policy . In the case of an accident , pay 100 % of his deductible . In the case of an accident , pay the difference in cost with you on the policy for the remainder of the time you rent the car . With most policies , once you are removed from it , his cost will go back to what it was . Note that # 3 is the reason it 's particularly important for you to be added to his policy . If you borrow the car , are not on his policy , and get in an accident , his rate will go up and will not go down when you stop using the car .
Some basics . Note that not all plans operate the same way , check with your plan to find out the specifics . When you take out the loan and pay interest , you are effectively paying yourself interest . It goes back into the account . You can typically get a loan of only a % of your account balance - your vested balance , not necessarily the total balance . And it tops out at 50K or 50 % , whichever is the smaller . If you lose your job with the employer the plan is with/move company , typically you are on the hook to pay it all back immediately . You may end up paying taxes twice . There may be origination fees . You will have to agree to a payback schedule as with a regular loan . Loans for house purchases tend to follow different rules - the payback schedule is typically longer . Such loans are not reported to credit reporting agencies . Loans are n't available from all plans . It 's at the discretion of the plan to do so or not . If you 're under 59 years of age you 'll be slugged with a penalty tax on top of the other taxes .
Currently certain money back policies are tax free and a vast majority are taxable . There are revised guidelines that would govern which policies are tax free . At a broad level the rule is that the sum assured under the policy should be 10 times the premium paid . There is no distinction of single premium or yearly . Hence certain policies of single premium are taxable . Further there is a TDS also in place from this year . <URL> gives a good overview . You should consult the documentation of your specific policy and check with your insurance company or CA .
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
If your emergency fund is used strictly in the event of a job loss , you may want to factor in your unemployment benefits . But note ! You will not necessarily receive unemployment benefits . In many countries , you are not eligible if you are fired . Additionally , I 've seen people laid off but denied benefits until they spent several months fighting the decision . So , it 's wisest not to count on unemployment benefits . Even if you do , note that they often take a while to kick in . Six to eight weeks in Canada , for example . It is also a good idea to consider what else could cause you to tap into your emergency fund . A death of a spouse or a parent may leave you with $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 in funeral expenses that you have to pay within two weeks , months before any life insurance would kick in . If you own a house , your furnace or hot water tank may fail and need immediate replacement . Generally , you 'd cover these from an emergency fund , though your specific case may be different . There 's obviously an opportunity cost to keeping too much in cash or cash-like investments in your emergency fund , so you 'll want to take that in to consideration as well . My personal opinion is that you should have at least 6 months of living expenses saved up , not counting on any unemployment benefits . You should also have enough to cover the other emergencies such as the ones I raised , though sometimes you can borrow from family for that sort of thing . Beyond 6 months , I 'm willing to factor in benefits , less-liquid investments , etc. .
Is the balance ( in dollars , say ) automatically converted to rupees when I try to : You ca n't transact on this account like you do on savings account . So there is NO ATM/Debit Card/Net Banking . You have to walk-in to the Branch and withdraw in local currency or in travel cards as required . Am I correct in understanding that a resident foreign currency account can not have deposits made into it in rupees , say if someone wants to transfer money to me using IMPS ? Deposits are restricted . <URL>
Basically the idea is you put the exact amount of cash into each envelope and set those aside for a specific purpose . Then when you go to accomplish that specific purpose such as grocery shopping or whatever , you take the corresponding envelope and use only the money that is inside . It is sort of a way to train yourself to follow budgets very strictly . Many people stand by this method and it really is as simple as the website you linked to . As far as tracking , this method really does n't track anything aside from what you note down about where the money is going . Others have moved on to using ING sub accounts to do the same thing but in a digital form .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
If you built the deck yourself , you will need to retain copies of your materials receipts ( note that tools purchased can not be claimed ) . If you hired a contractor to do the work , the contractor must be registered for the GST and you must retain the invoice . All work must have been completed between January 27 , 2009 and February 1st , 2010 . The CRA will include a new schedule in your 2009 income tax package that will help you claim the tax credit . The credit is 15 % of the eligible expenses over $ 1,000 but less than $ 10,000 . For example , if you spent $ 10,000 , your credit would be ( $ 10,000 - $ 1,000 ) x 15 % or $ 1,350 . The HRTC is a non-refundable tax credit , which is used to reduce your taxes payable . It is not claimed against income . For example , if you had taxes payable for $ 12,000 for 2009 and had eligible HRTC expenses of $ 10,000 , your tax bill would be reduced by $ 1,350 to $ 10,650 . The Canada Revenue Agency has some excellent information on their website at the following URL <URL>
Move to a small town in an insurance friendly state . - Certian states like Florida are considered high risk for doing business for insurance companies . Get a ( relatively ) new midsize sedan in white , tan , or brown . These colors are the least likely to get stolen and the modern midsized sedan is considered the safest vehicles to drive . Drive less than 100 miles a month - The less you drive the less likely you are to be involved in an accident Go 9 years with no claims , tickets , or late payments and maintain a valid drivers license and Insurance . Drivers who go for long periods with out incident are more likely to be safe drivers . Have an income in upper middle class . Drivers in this bracket tend to be statistically safer drivers and are the least likely to be involved in fraud .
During after hours , there is less liquidity , defined as the quantity of the asset on the limit book and the spread between the best orders . Actually , for the most liquid securities in the US , trading has actually been extended by fifteen minutes . The liquidity there seems to be rising up to normal levels . If trading on those securities matches normal hours then it would n't be unreasonable to assume another fifteen minutes will be added and so on . The primary exchanges close trading mostly at 4:00 PM with the above noted exceptions . The secondary exchanges trade almost non-stop . They use their internal inventory to do so or communicate directly with the registering agent . This has little to do with floor traders but more with tradition since the NASDAQ also closes at 4:00 PM . If more demand it , the exchanges should be expected to extend trading hours , regulation permitting . I ca n't speak to Canada 's regulation , but in the US , trading hours are traditional not regulatory .
You 've correctly understood the way charitable donations work . They are non-refundable tax credits , which means they reduce your income tax bill if you pay any , but ca n't reduce it below zero . <URL> . However the good news is that <URL> . This means that your best strategy is to hang on to those tax receipts , and assuming you start earning taxable income in the next five years , claim them then . EDIT : I would expect that making the donation through one of your parents would work . Essentially you would be giving the computers to your parents , and they would give them to the charity . You would have to make sure the receipts were issued in your parents name . You would also have to make sure that the amounts involved were small enough that your parents did n't pay tax on the gift to them , but in the amounts you seem to be talking about that should n't be a problem .
end question
start question
How much of my capital should I spend on subscribing to a stock research company ?
You should spend zero on your stock research company . If the management of the company actually had persistent skill in picking stocks , they would not be peddling their knowledge to the retail market for a few hundred dollars . They would rake in millions and billions by running a huge hedge fund and buy themselves a private island or something . Unfortunately for them , hedge fund investors are not as gullible as retail investors and are more likely to sue when they discover they have been lied to . Many stock " research " companies are trying to manipulate you into paying too high a price for stocks . They buy a small stock , recommend it , and then sell it at the artificially ( and temporarily ) high price . Others are simply recommending stocks pretty much at random . You could do that just as well as they can , and for free . Portfolio performance evaluation is a complex problem . The research company knows that its recommendations will " make good money " about half the time and that 's enough to bring in a lot of uninformed people . To know whether your portfolio actually did well you need to know how much risk there was in the portfolio and how a competing " dumb " portfolio with similar characteristics fared over the same time period . And you need to repeat the experiment enough times ( or long enough ) to know the outcome was n't luck . I can say confidently that your portfolio performance does n't back up the claim that the research company has skill above and beyond luck . Much less $ 599 worth of skill . I can also say very confidently that there are no investors with a total of 20 thousand dollars to invest for whom purchasing stock recommendations is worth the cost , even if those recommendations do have some value . Real stock information is valuable only to large investors because the per-dollar value is low . Please do not give money to or otherwise support a semi-criminal " stock research " enterprise .
There is a lot of interesting information that can be found in a fund 's prospectus . I have found it very helpful to read books on the issue , one I just finished was " The Boglehead 's Guide to Investing " which speaks mostly on mutual and index funds . Actively managed funds mean that someone is choosing which stocks to buy and which to sell . If they think a stock will be " hot " then they buy it . Research has shown that people can not predict the stock market , which is why many people suggest index based funds . An index fund generally tracks a group of companies . Example : an index fund of the S&amp;P 500 will try to mimic the returns that the S&amp;P 500 has . Overall , managed funds are more expensive than index funds because the fund manager must be paid to manage it . Also , there is generally more buying and selling so that also increases the tax amount you would owe . What I am planning on doing is opening a Roth IRA with Vanguard , as their funds have incredibly low fees ( 0.2 % on many ) . One of the most important things you do before you buy is to figure out your target allocation ( % of stocks vs % of bonds ) . Once you figure that out then you can start narrowing down the funds that you wish to invest in .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
The shareholders elect the board of directors who in turn appoint a CEO . The CEO is responsible for the overall running of the company . To answer your specific questions : The CEO ( typically ) has the power to make all decisions for the company . It 's customary for very large decisions to first seek the approval of the board , but that differs between companies and the type of decisions . Yes , a CEO can " control " a public company . That 's exactly the point of having a CEO . Yes , Steve Jobs could make decisions that are harmful to the well-being of the company . However , it 's the responsibility of the board of directors to keep his decisions and behavior in check . They will remove him from his position if they feel he could be a danger to the company .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
Based on the additional comment you gave , I would recommend that you keep the capital from the businesses separate as much as possible . It sounds like you wo n't get into any trouble legally if you make ' loans ' or transfers of capital from one business into the other . But I would suggest that you keep detailed records of any transfers that you do make . The reason why is that in any business , it is important to know the economics of how your business makes money . If you find yourself making transfers repeatedly , then your business model may be bad . Even if your transfers are only to deal with the cost of poor customers , it could still mean that your business model needs to be adjusted . But if it 's a question of the timing of cash flows , then there 's really nothing wrong with taking some of the money from your successful pants operation and building up more working capital in your stationery shop .
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
Yes , you should consider it . You should not necessarily do it though . You will need to investigate the management charges and performance on each scheme , as well as transfer penalties and whether your current scheme actually permits transfers in . Unfortunately the only way to do this is to dig through the small print for each scheme you are a member of ( and probably to look online for most recent charges and performance info ) . This is not a simple undertaking and many people opt not to bother . However , it is almost certainly the case that the older schemes are invested in funds with higher charges and/or poorer performance , so if you can bring yourself to put in the research it is probably worth it . The risk of course is that with all your eggs in one basket , if something goes horribly wrong you end up with insufficient pension . On the other hand , if your current scheme has more in it and you have relatively small amounts stagnating in the old schemes , then this is a low risk . Finally , you might want to consider taking out a personal or stakeholder pension instead and asking your employers if they would consider contributing to that rather than setting up yet another scheme , especially if you move jobs again .
I wrote an article <URL> in which I detail how the ideal credit utilization is 1-19 % . So , doing the math , $ 5000 will support $ 1000 ( actually $ 950 ) worth of spending . If you do n't get higher credit lines , and find you charge more now and then , simply make a payment mid-cycle . It 's the amount on the statement that gets reported , not daily balances .
Yes When exercising a stock option you will be buying the stock at the strike price so you will be putting up your money , if you lose that money you can declare it as a loss like any other transaction . So if the stock is worth $ 1 and you have 10 options with a strike at $ 0.50 you will spend $ 500 when you exercise your options . If you hold those shares and the company is then worth $ 0 you lost $ 500 . I have not verified my answer so this is solely from my understanding of accounting and finance . Please verify with your accountant to be sure .
How long is a piece of string ? This will depend on many variables . How many trades will you make in a day ? What income would you be expecting to make ? What expectancy do you need to achieve ? Which markets you will choose to trade ? Your first step should be to develop a Trading Plan , then develop your trading rules and your risk management . Then you should back test your strategy and then use a virtual account to practice losing on . Because one thing you will get is many losses . You have to learn to take a loss when the market moves against you . And you need to let your profits run and keep your losses small . A good book to start with is Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van Tharp . It will teach you about Expectancy , Money Management , Risk Management and the Phycology of Trading . Two thing I can recommend are : 1 ) to look into position and trend trading and other types of short term trading instead of day trading . You would usually place your trades after market close together with your stops and avoid being in front of the screen all day trying to chase the market . You need to take your emotion out of your trading if you want to succeed ; 2 ) do n't trade penny stocks , trade commodities , FX or standard stocks , but keep away from penny stocks . Just because you can buy them for a penny does not mean they are cheap .
401 ( k ) and 403 ( b ) plans may have different rules , depending on the plan ( read the plan documents for more details ) , but in general they can be inherited without tax penalties beyond regular income tax . Specifically , as a spouse you can typically either take a lump-sum distribution from the 401 ( k ) and pay income tax on it ( but not the 10 % penalty ) , or you may usually roll it over into an IRA which further delays the income tax ( but then would have a penalty if you withdrew from it after that ) . See <URL> for example , or <URL> : There are certain exceptions to this additional 10 % tax . The following six exceptions apply to distributions from any qualified retirement plan : Distributions made to your beneficiary or estate on or after your death . IRAs also have this exception , as is covered in <URL> and <URL> . In particular , for spouses : Treat it as your own IRA by designating yourself as the account owner . Treat it as your own by rolling it over into your IRA , or to the extent it is taxable , into a : Qualified employer plan , Qualified employee annuity plan ( section 403 ( a ) plan ) , Tax-sheltered annuity plan ( section 403 ( b ) plan ) , Deferred compensation plan of a state or local government ( section 457 plan ) , or Treat yourself as the beneficiary rather than treating the IRA as your own . Roth IRAs function similarly , though some of the exact mechanics may differ . The only comment other than noting the RMD rules in chapter 2 is : If the sole beneficiary is the spouse , he or she can either delay distributions until the decedent would have reached age 70 1/2 or treat the Roth IRA as his or her own . If you designate your spouse as the beneficiary of your HSA , then it becomes her/his HSA and no tax consequence exists . If not , then it becomes her/his and is taxed . See <URL> for more detail .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
My understanding of life insurance is that it usually provides some amount of money when the beneficiary dies . They do n't divide the benefits into " funeral costs " and " all the rest " . At least , mine does n't seem to . Also , a recent Wall Street Journal article on the casket-making industry noted The average cost of a traditional burial is $ 7,200 , compared with $ 1,400 for the crematory fee , some form of memorial service and an inexpensive urn , says John Ross , executive director of the Cremation Association of North America . <URL>
Like Bluetie Grasper have said . Can I create a PayPal account and receive $ 200 ( or a similar amount ) without adding a bank account , credit card , or anything but my email address ? The answer is No . You can transfer the money to your PayPal account but until you verify it with your personal information with at least a credit card or mostly likely a bank account , PayPal will hold those funds until otherwise . Can I then use that money to buy on Amazon , still without adding anything but my email address ? If not , can I buy gift cards and use those on Amazon ? Amazon does not accept PayPal .
There is no simple way to calculate how much house any given person can afford . In the answer keshlam gave , several handy rules of thumb are mentioned that are used as common screening devices to reject loans , but in every case further review is required to approve any loan . The 28 % rule is the gold standard for estimating how much you can afford , but it is only an estimate ; all the details ( that you do n't want to provide ) are required to give you anything better than an estimate . In the spirit of JoeTaxpayer 's answer I 'm going to give you a number that you can multiply your gross income by for a good estimate , but my estimate is based on a 15 year mortgage . Assuming a 15 year mortgage with a 3 % interest rate , it will cost $ 690.58 per $ 100,000 borrowed . So to take those numbers and wrap it up in a bow , you can multiply your income by 3.38 and have the amount of mortgage that most people can afford . If you have a down-payment saved add it to the number above for the total price of the home you can buy after closing costs are added in . Property taxes and insurance rates vary widely , and those are often rolled into the mortgage payment to be paid from an escrow account , banks may consider all of these factors in their calculators but they may not be transparent . If you ca n't afford to pay it in 15 years , you really ca n't afford it . Compare the same $ 100k loan : In 30 years at 4 % you pay about $ 477/month with a total of about $ 72k in interest over the life of the loan . In 15 years at 3 % you pay about $ 691/month but the total interest is only $ 24k , and you are out of the loan in half of the time . The equity earned in the first 5 years is also signficantly different with 28.5 % for the 15 year loan vs. 9.5 % on the 30 year loan . Without straying too far into general economics , 15 year loans would also have averted the mortgage crisis of 2008 , because more people would have had enough equity that they would n't have walked out on their homes when there was a price correction .
I 'd suggest you put only 20 % down if you qualify for the 80 % amount of the mortgage . Live in the house a year and see what expenses really are . Then if your non-Ret accounts are still being funded to your liking , start prepaying the mortgage if you wish . It 's great to start with a house that 's only 50 % mortgaged , but if any life change happens to you , it may be tough to borrow it back . Far easier to just take your time and not make a decision you may regret . You do n't give much detail about your retirement savings , but I 'd suggest that I 'd rather have a large mortgage and fund my retirement accounts to the maximum than to have a paid house and start the retirement account at age 35 . Some choose that option .
You will pay at your top marginal rate in general , but there are a couple of other factors that may add to the tax : This additional income may bump you into the next tax bracket , in which case you 'll pay a higher marginal rate on the portion that falls into that next higher bracket . You probably have to pay self-employment tax in addition , which will mean " both halves " of your social security and medicare . ( For people with " regular " jobs getting a W-2 , the employer pays SS and Medicare as a payroll tax in addition to what they withhold from your paycheck . ) If you 're sufficiently underpaid on your tax , then you may have to pay some interest in addition to just the tax . Without knowing too much about your situation , 46 % does n't sound crazy since you said you 're in the 25 % bracket and the combined rate for SS and Medicare is 15.3 % , which already puts you around 40.3 % just based on my bullet # 2 above . Your software should have generated Schedule C on your return . You should be able to track some of these numbers more precisely there .
I would highly recommend the book " four pillars of investing " by William J Bernstein . This is by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investments , some bonds , and even some cash ( or money market funds ) . Assuming you are designing your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicles , I would put the least tax-efficient investments ( think fix-income products and other that are being treated the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered accounts ( you are only taxed on 50 % of your capital gains and can use past losses to reduce future tax payables ) . If you are just starting out , putting everything in RRSP is not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e. across multiple accounts ) as you have more money to invest . The key here is to make sure you have the right mix of asset classes that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stays true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goals with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bonds , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavier emphasis on bonds as your get closer to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bonds , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , as the market is still volatile , and depends on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 years or so , which is too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just as my poker analogy suggests , you are gambling if you are doing all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 years timeframe . If any of the above sounds confusing to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e. not those that gets paid commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this helps ,
The textbook answer would be " assets-liabilities + present discounted value of all future profit " . A&amp;L is usually simple ( if a company has an extra $ 1m in cash , it 's worth $ 1m more ; if it has an extra $ 1m in debt , it 's worth $ 1m less ) . If a company with ~ 0 assets and $ 50k in profit has a $ 1m valuation , then that implies that whoever makes that valuation ( wants to buy at that price ) really believes one of two things - either the future profit will be significantly larger than $ 50k ( say , it 's rapidly growing ) ; or the true worth of assets is much more - say , there 's some IP/code/patents / people that have low book value but some other company would pay $ 1m just to get that . The point is that valuation is subjective since the key numbers in the calculations are not perfectly known by anyone who does n't have a time machine , you can make estimates but the knowledge to make the estimates varies ( some buyers/sellers have extra information ) , and they can be influenced by those buyers/sellers ; e.g. for strategic acquisitions the value of company is significantly changed simply because someone claims they want to acquire it . And , $ 1m valuation for a company with $ 500m in profits is n't appropriate - it 's appropriate only if the profits are expected to drop to zero within a couple years ; a stagnant but stable company with $ 500m profits would be worth at least $ 5m and potentially much more .
end question
start question
Why would I enroll in a Limited Purpose FSA , on top of an HSA ?
Even though your HSA may already cover vision and dental expenses , there are two reasons you still might want to consider a Limited Purpose FSA on top of an HSA : If you anticipate enough <URL> to completely use up funds in your HSA ( and remember , annual contributions to an HSA are <URL> ) , then you can use the FSA funds for the vision &amp; dental expenses specifically , or If you want your HSA balance to accumulate for future major health expenses . HSA balances can carry over from one year to the next . Be careful : Unlike an HSA 's ability to carry over , FSAs are instead use-it-or-lose-it ... excess funds are forfeit at the end of the year . So , do n't overfund beyond anticipated expenses , or you 'll generously end up <URL> in your company 's medical plan . :-)
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
What you are describing does n't work . The reason is that when you do an excess contribution withdrawal , your HSA custodian will also send you any earnings from your excess contributions . These earnings will be listed in Box 2 of the <URL> that they give you at the end of the year , and you will need to add them to your income as " other income " on your 1040 at tax time ( line 21 on 2015 's 1040 ) . If , for some reason , you do not remove the earnings on your excess contributions from your HSA and add them to your taxable income , you will owe a 6 % excise tax/penalty on your excess contributions . See Publication 969 , Health Savings Accounts , <URL> for more details . In addition , most HSA custodians will not allow you to deposit more than the family contribution limit ( $ 6750 , or $ 7750 if you are age 55 + ) in a year . And some HSA custodians charge an excess contribution return fee .
The HSA contribution limits for a partial year can be very confusing . This is discussed in <URL> . There are two different ways to determine what your limits should be : the prorated limit and the last-month rule . Prorated Limit The standard way to handle the contribution limit for a partial year is to prorate the limit for the number of months that you had HDHP coverage . There is a worksheet on the <URL> that walks you through this , but essentially here is how it works . For each month , you determine what kind of HDHP coverage you had on the first day of the month . In 2015 , if you had single coverage , you would enter $ 3350 for that month , if you had family coverage , you would enter $ 6650 , and if you had no HDHP coverage , you would enter 0 . Add up all 12 months and divide by 12 . This is your contribution limit for that year . In your example , where you had single HDHP coverage only on December 1 , 2015 , your contribution limit using this method would be $ 279 . Last Month Rule If you want to contribute more , you may want to use the last month rule . The last month rule states that if you have HDHP coverage on the first day of the last month in the tax year ( December ) , you can contribute the entire annual limit for the year ( $ 3350 for 2015 ) . However , there is a catch . If you use the last month rule , you are subject to a testing period . This testing period begins on the first day of the last month ( December 1 , 2015 ) and continues until the end of the following year ( December 31 , 2016 ) . In order to use the last month rule , you need to remain covered by an HDHP for the entire testing period . If you use the last month rule , but fail to remain eligible for the entire testing period , you will need to add the extra amount that you contributed back into your income for the following year . In addition , there is a 10 % penalty . In your example , since you are covered on December 1 , 2015 , you are able to use the last month rule and contribute up to $ 3350 . If you remain covered by an HDHP for all of 2016 , everything is fine . However , if you stop being covered by an HDHP at some point during 2016 , you will have to add to your 2016 income whatever amount you contributed to your HSA in 2015 that was over $ 279 . In addition , you 'll pay a 10 % penalty on this extra amount .
The HSA money is yours to keep . You ca n't add new money into the account and get a tax deduction for the new money , but you can spend the old money on medical expenses . First log into the website for the HSA and see if you have money left . This can be important because if there is still money left they might be charging you a monthly fee . You should have gotten a letter from the old company or the administrator when you left the High deductible insurance plan . This would have told you your options regarding the spending or transferring of old funds . HSA related numbers would have appeared on your W2 , and you should have a 1099-SA from the administrator . It is likely that there is a copy of the 1099 on the administrators website . The numbers you enter on the tax forms depends on how much you contributed from your paycheck , how much your company contributed , and how much you sent ( if any ) from other sources besides payroll deduction . You will also have to know how much money was withdrawn from the HSA and how much was used for medical purposes . The last month rule is for those people who start in the middle of the year . If you start partway through the year you are allowed to make the maximum contribution if you still have it at the end of the year , and <URL> . The Last Month Rule The Last Month Rule states that if you are covered by an HSA eligible health plan on the first day of the last month of a given year , you are considered an eligible individual for the entire year . In turn , you can then contribute to the HSA for that full year . If you are covered by an HDHP on Dec 1st of a given year , you may contribute the maximum for that year . For example , you could begin coverage and open up my HSA in November of a given year . Come December 1st , you are covered and per the Last Month Rule , considered an eligible employee for that full year . That allows you to contribute up to that year 's contribution limit , even waiting a few months to make a prior year contribution if you like . Back up the truck and load up the HSA ! However , there is a catch . The Testing Period The Testing Period states if you use the Last Month Rule , you must remain an eligible individual ( covered by HDHP ) for the following 12 months . If you fail to remain an eligible individual ( change insurance plans , lose insurance plan , receive other health coverage ) any " extra " contributions you made as a result of the Last Month Rule will be taxed and penalized . If you contribute per the Last Month Rule and end your HDHP insurance within 1 year , you will have to pay tax on any excess contributions you were allowed to make and pay a 10 % penalty . In this case , " excess " contributions are determined by the contribution limit / 12 months , compared to your time eligible .
Two different takes on an answer ; the net-loss concept you mentioned and a core-business concept . If a store is actually a net-loss , and anybody is willing to buy it , it may well make sense to sell it . Depending on your capital value invested , and how much it would take you to make it profitable , it may be a sound business decision to sell the asset . The buyer of the asset is of course expecting for some reason to make it not a net loss for them ( perhaps they have other stores in the vicinity and can then share staff or stock somehow ) . The core-business is a fuzzier concept . Investors seem to go in cycles , like can like well-diversified companies that are resilient to a market downturn in one sector , but then they also like so-called pure-play companies , where you are clear on what you are owning . To try an example ( which is likely not the case here ) , lets say that Sunoco in 5 % of its stores had migrated away from a gas-station model to a one-stop-gas-and-repairs model . Therefore they had to have service bays , parts , and trained staff at those locations . These things are expensive , and could be seen as not their area of expertise ( selling gas ) . So as an investor , if I want to own gas stations , I do n't want to own a full service garage , so perhaps I invest in somebody else . Once they sell off their non-core assets , they free up capital to do what they know best . It is at least one possible explanation .
If you want to subcontract some of your excess work to somebody else , you better be in business ! While some kinds of employees ( e.g. commissioned salespeople ) are permitted to deduct some expenses on their income tax , generally only a real business can deduct wages for additional employees , or the cost of services provided by subcontractors . Do you invoice your clients and charge <URL> ? Or do you tell your clients each pay period how many hours you worked and they compensate you through their payroll system like everybody else that walks through the door ? If you 're not invoicing and charging HST ( GST ) ( assuming you exceed the <URL> , and if you have too much work , you probably do ! ) , then perhaps your clients are treating you as an employee -- by default -- and withholding taxes , CPP , and EI so they do n't get in trouble ? After all , Canada Revenue Agency is likely to consider any person providing a service to a company to be an employee unless there is sufficient evidence to the contrary , and when there is n't enough evidence , it 's the company paying for the services that would be <URL> . Carefully consider what <URL> you are operating , or were intending to operate . It 's essential for your business to be structured appropriately if you want to hire or subcontract . You ought to be either self-employed as a sole proprietor , or perhaps incorporated if it makes more sense to your situation . Next , act accordingly . For instance , it 's likely that your business should be taking care of the source deductions , CPP , and EI . In fact , self-employed individuals should n't even be paying into EI -- an independent contractor would n't qualify to make an EI claim if they lost a contract . As an independent , one does n't have a job , one has a business , and EI does n't cover the business itself , only the employees that the business deals with at arm 's length . As a business owner , you would be considered non-arms-length , and exempt from EI . Growing your business in the way that you are suggesting is an important enough a step that you should seek professional advice in advance . Find a good accountant that deals with self-employed individuals &amp; small businesses and run all this by him . He should be able to guide you accordingly . Find a lawyer , too . A lawyer can guide you on how to properly subcontract others while protecting you and your business . Finally , be mindful of what it is you agreed to in your contract with your client : Do they expect all services to be performed by you , personally ? Even if it was n't written down who exactly would be performing the services , there may be an assumption it 's you . Some negotiation may be in order if you want to use subcontractors .
Unfortunately , no . An FSA is exclusively an employer-established plan . Even self-employed people are n't eligible for an FSA . From <URL> : Qualifying for an FSA Health FSAs are employer-established benefit plans . These may be offered in conjunction with other employer-provided benefits as part of a cafeteria plan . Employers have complete flexibility to offer various combinations of benefits in designing their plan . Self-employed persons are not eligible for an FSA . If I were you , instead of pushing for an FSA , I would ask for an HSA-qualified health plan ( a High Deductible Health Plan , or HDHP ) and an HSA . This has the potential to save the employer money , and an HSA does not have the use-it-or-lose-it rule that FSAs have .
It is true that all else being equal , you will pay a lower amount of total interest by paying down your highest interest rate debts first . However , all else is not always equal . I 'm going to try to come up with some reasons why it might be better in some circumstances to pay your debts in a different order . And I 'll try to use as much math as possible . :) Let 's say that your goal is to eliminate all of your debt as fast as possible . The faster you do this , the lower the total interest that you will pay . Now , let 's consider the different methods that you could take to get there : You could pay the highest interest first , you could pay the lowest interest first , or you could pay something in the middle first . No matter which path you choose , the quicker you pay everything off , the lower total interest you will pay . In addition to that , the quicker you pay everything off , the difference in total interest paid between the most optimal method and the least optimal method will be less . To put this in mathematical notation : limt → 0 Δ Interest ( t ) = 0 Given that , anything we can do to speed up the time it takes to get to " debt free " is to our advantage . When paying large amounts of debt as fast as possible , sacrifice is needed . And this means that psychology comes into play . I do n't know about you , but for me , gamifying the system makes everything easier . ( After all , gamification is what gets us to write answers here on SE . ) One way to do this is to eliminate individual debts as quickly as possible . For example , let 's say that I 've got 10 debts . 5 of them are for $ 1k each . 3 of them are for $ 5k each , 1 is a $ 20k car loan , and 1 is a $ 100k mortgage . Each one has a monthly payment . Let 's say that I 've got $ 3k sitting in the bank that I want to use to kickstart my debt reduction . I could pay all $ 3k toward one of my larger loans , or I could immediately pay off 3 of my 10 loans . Ignore interest for the moment , and let 's say that we are going to pay off the smallest loans first . When I eliminate these three loans , three of my monthly payments are also gone . Now let 's say that with the money I was paying toward these eliminated debts , and some other money I was able to scrape together $ 500 a month that I want to use toward debt reduction . In four months , I 've eliminated the last two $ 1k debts , and I 'm down to 5 debts instead of 10 . Achievement Unlocked ! Instead of this strategy , I could have paid toward my largest interest rate . Let 's say that was one of the $ 5k loans . I paid the $ 3k toward the bank to it , and because I still had all the monthly payments after that , I was only able to scrape together $ 400 a month extra toward debt reduction . In four months , I still have 10 debts . Now let 's say that after these four months , I have a bad month , and some unexpected expenses come up . If I 've eliminated 5 of my debts , my monthly payments are less , and I 'll have an easier month then I would have had if I still had 10 monthly payments to deal with . Each time I eliminate a debt , the amount extra I have each month to tackle the remaining debts gets bigger . And if your goal is eliminating debt quickly , these early wins can really help motivate you on . It really feels like you are getting somewhere when your monthly bills go down . It also helps you with the debt free mindset . You start to see a future where you are n't sending payments to the banks each month . This method of paying your smaller debts first has been popularized in recent years by Dave Ramsey , and he calls it the debt snowball method . There might be other reasons why you would pick one debt over another to pay first . For example , let 's say that one of your loans is with a bank that has terrible customer service . They do n't send you bills on time , they process your payment late , their website stinks , they are a constant source of stress , and you are getting sick of them . That would be a great reason to pay that debt first , and never set foot in that bank again . In conclusion : If you have a constant amount of extra cash each month that you are going to use to reduce your debt , and this will never change , then , yes , you will save money over the long run by paying the highest interest debt first . However , if you are trying to eliminate your debt as fast as possible , and you are sacrificing in your budget , sending every extra penny you can scrape together toward debt reduction , the " snowball " method of knocking out the small debts first can help motivate you to continue to sacrifice toward your goal , and can also ease the cash flow situation in difficult months when you find yourself with less extra to send in .
The US does n't have a Value Added Tax , which is the one usually refundable upon departing the country ... so sales taxes you pay in this country stay in this country and you do n't get a refund . Just remember to treat the tax as an implied part of the price . ( And be aware that state and local taxes may vary , so the total price may be higher in one place than in another . New York City adds a few percent on top of the state sales tax , for example . ) If you are n't sure how much tax would be , do n't be afraid to ask .
There are two kinds of dividend-reinvestment plans . The first is offered by the company you 're buying . If you want to be enrolled in this plan , you need to buy stock in the company directly , and maintain multiple accounts ( one for each company 's stock ) . The details will vary from company to company , and can have some major downsides , especially when it comes to figuring out how to do the tax reporting . You 'll need to find the prospectus and figure out whether you 're eligible for the plan by yourself . These plans are probably best for people whose main set of investments are managed by another party ( e.g. a university pension plan ) and who want to supplement this with some investment in just one or two companies that they know very well , because otherwise it 's hard to get good amounts of diversification . The second kind of plan is offered by your broker . Brokerages will charge you some money to trade stocks , but they are great because you can have one account with lots of stocks in one place . But unless your broker has a presence both in the US and the UK , you 'll probably need to transfer your holdings to a new institution sooner or later . This usually involves a fee for the outgoing transfer ( typically on the order of $ 50 - $ 100 ) . Additionally , the brokerage will liquidate any partial shares ( theoretically these shares do n't really exist individually ; whole shares are held by the brokerage , and interest in those shares ' value is assigned to people who hold partial shares ) . If you 're enrolled in a dividend reinvestment plan , chances are you 'll have some of these partial shares , and you wo n't gain or lose much by having it as ' stock ' for a few months instead of ' cash ' . In the short term , I would recommend either storing your money in other instruments , or ( if you think you can get much more than $ 50 + in earnings over the next several months - depends on how much you 've got ) buying individual stocks at a brokerage . When you move to the US and select a brokerage there , you can enroll in a dividend reinvestment plan offered by the broker and combine the cash you 've earned from dividends with future investment cash . There is no tax advantage to using a dividend reinvestment plan ( and indeed , if it is in a taxable account , it may complicate cost-basis reporting in the future if you have to report a large number of small purchases ) . This assumes you 're interested in owning individual stocks . It is also possible to find yourself a stock ETF or mutual fund . Most mutual funds are pretty good about letting you reinvest your dividends . If you 're interested in a diversified instrument where you can buy dividend-bearing US stocks , I 'd recommend that you obtain an account at <URL> ( which is renowned for low expense ratios on its mutual funds ) once you arrive in the US , and put money in a mutual fund such as the Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund or the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Index Fund . ( Naturally , you may also select other funds or fund providers based on what your research suggests meets your needs . Read the prospectus and understand the risks and potential returns . ) Of course , you should also consider whether a highly diversified investment strategy involving the whole US stock market ( or even the world stock market ) , and not just US dividend-oriented companies , might be more suitable for your needs . Or a blended portfolio involving both stocks and bonds .
Yes , there is a way to step-up contributions now , you just have to ask your FSA vendor ( in our case , after thinking about it for a month they realized they could n't think of a reason to prevent it ) . From the FSA vendor : [ the FSA vendor ] advised that [ my wife can be allowed ] to accelerate her dependent care deductions prior to going out on leave up to the $ 5,000 household limit ( or $ 2,500 if married filing separate tax returns ) . Her dependent care FSA election will need to be used for daycare expenses incurred before or after her leave of absence . Daycare expenses incurred while she is out on leave are not eligible . Please see the pre-pay options in the attached Election Change form .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
Even though your HSA may already cover vision and dental expenses , there are two reasons you still might want to consider a Limited Purpose FSA on top of an HSA : If you anticipate enough <URL> to completely use up funds in your HSA ( and remember , annual contributions to an HSA are <URL> ) , then you can use the FSA funds for the vision &amp; dental expenses specifically , or If you want your HSA balance to accumulate for future major health expenses . HSA balances can carry over from one year to the next . Be careful : Unlike an HSA 's ability to carry over , FSAs are instead use-it-or-lose-it ... excess funds are forfeit at the end of the year . So , do n't overfund beyond anticipated expenses , or you 'll generously end up <URL> in your company 's medical plan . :-)
IIRC it 's not a FICO score , as mentioned <URL> , too . That said , apart from borrowing money to optimise your credit score as a hobby , my understanding is that once you 're above a FICO score of 750 , it pretty much does n't matter how close to 800 you get .
This is referred to as a Mistaken Distribution . An HSA mistaken distribution occurs when you take a distribution and later find out that it is not for a qualified medical expense . For example , this could occur if you accidentally pay for a restaurant dinner with your HSA debit card . It can also occur if you take a distribution to pay for a medical expense , but then are later reimbursed by insurance . This is discussed in the <URL> . ( Note : these forms are submitted by the HSA bank , not the consumer , so the instructions are addressed to them . ) HSA mistaken distributions . If amounts were distributed during the year from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause , the account beneficiary may repay the mistaken distribution no later than April 15 following the first year the account beneficiary knew or should have known the distribution was a mistake . For example , the account beneficiary reasonably , but mistakenly , believed that an expense was a qualified medical expense and was reimbursed for that expense from the HSA . The account beneficiary then repays the mistaken distribution to the HSA . You have until April 15 in the year following the refund to repay the HSA and avoid the extra tax and penalty that should be paid if you were to keep the distribution that was not ultimately used for medical expenses . When you send the money to the HSA bank , you need to explicitly tell them that it is a mistaken distribution repayment , so that they can report it to the IRS correctly and it will not affect your contribution limits .
No , you ca n't . The limits are contribution limits , not limits on the value of the investment . If you contributed $ 5,500 for 2015 , you are done contributing for that tax year . You are free to contribute another $ 5,500 for 2016 .
You wo n't be taxed for putting it in a savings account ( except on any interest that is subsequently paid ) . If the money is from a taxable source , then you 're liable to pay tax on its receipt whether you then put it in a savings account , stuff it under your mattress or burn it . If you 're planning on the basis that you might ( by not putting it in a bank ) be able conceal its existence from the tax authorities so that you do n't have to pay the tax that 's due then you 're asking for advice on breaking the law , which is out of scope for this forum .
You can not carry bills over to the next year . You can only get reimbursement from your FSA for amounts incurred in the period the FSA covers , so if your FSA covers calendar year - the next year 's FSA wo n't be able to provide reimbursement for the previous year bill . Note that asking the doctor to split the bill and bill you on different days wo n't work either because you incur the cost on the day of the surgery . Misreporting to overcome that limitation is considered insurance fraud ( a felony ) . If this is not an option , then what other options could I have to cover the entire surgery with my FSA account ? None .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
end question
start question
Does a SIM only cell phone contract help credit rating ?
I have never seen any of my mobile phone providers report any data to any credit agency . They tend to only do that if you do n't pay on time . Maybe sometimes it helps , but from my experience over the last decade - it must be some very rare times .
10 years in some states in the US . Also , items do n't ever leave your credit report , but time will improve your credit score . Repair the damage ? First find the damage . In the US you are entitled by law to a credit report from each of the bureaus once a year . Some folks get them all at once , some people get one every four months . <URL> Please do n't pay for a credit report . Anybody who advertises will be the ones selling you a report and they are basically stealing . You have a pretty good chance of finding errors in your report . You will have to dispute them with the reporting bureaus . Be prepared for a few months of registered letters and lots of phone calls to get your report cleaned up and accurate . Then , Know how credit works . Know your score . I have used credit.com for free to get an estimated score . It also cover # 1 with some nice info on how credit is calculated . Pay down debt , do n't acquire more Do n't cancel your credit lines that are paid down . Cut up the cards , never use the accounts again , but do n't close them . Once you are debt free , if you use credit wisely that does n't hurt . Pay for stuff with credit cards but always always always pay them off at the end of each month . Time is the best way to fix your ills . Use credit properly for a nice long time and your score will improve . Do n't use credit counseling : All they do is bargin for lower payments . You can do this yourself . Do n't use credit protection services : They do n't do anything you ca n't do yourself for free . ( Read some consumer credit web pages to learn your rights ) EXAMPLE I ran across this tale , which is pretty well written , very clear and mentions a lot of the steps and details I never knew . <URL>
It seems to me the coupon is semiannual . You pay $ 105.10 , and get a coupon of $ 5.62 in June along with your $ 100 . So , you ' lost ' $ 5.10 , for a net .52 , or .95 % .
You can not carry bills over to the next year . You can only get reimbursement from your FSA for amounts incurred in the period the FSA covers , so if your FSA covers calendar year - the next year 's FSA wo n't be able to provide reimbursement for the previous year bill . Note that asking the doctor to split the bill and bill you on different days wo n't work either because you incur the cost on the day of the surgery . Misreporting to overcome that limitation is considered insurance fraud ( a felony ) . If this is not an option , then what other options could I have to cover the entire surgery with my FSA account ? None .
The transfer may impact utilization , as discussed in <URL> ? My accepted answer discusses that aspect of this question . Of course , applying for that card ( if new ) will impact other aspects of the scoring such as credit inquiries and average account age . One thing to keep in mind , if it 's not obvious , the score is a snapshot , changing as any balances are reported , weekly or more often depending on how many accounts there are . Balances and their impact will change as they are paid . So doing anything to save interest is money in your pocket , and once paid off , your score returns to normal . Credit inquiries have a long ( two year ) effect , and things like missed payments and unpaid cards .
For all intents and purposes , a lease affects your credit score in a similar manner as a loan . In fact , a lease often requires slightly better credit in order to get the best terms , compared to a loan . Alternative answer to your question : <URL> . A car loan may not be the answer . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Third party car insurance covers the car driver 's entire liability to others , so yes it would cover this case . Even if the car driver was uninsured or by some unlikely chance his insurance refused to pay , he is still personally liable for any damage caused by an accident that is his fault ( which seems to be implied/admitted here ) . As a car driver he is legally obliged to give the details of his insurance coverage to anyone like you with good reason to ask for it , so if he is being difficult you should demand this information and deal with his insurer directly . Note that if you were at all injured the car driver ought to have also reported the incident to the police ( though realistically he may not have done this ) . You also may wish to go to them yourself , whether or not you were injured , if you have any difficulty getting the insurance details .
I think you 're making a mistake . If you still want to make this mistake ( I 'll explain later why I think its a mistake ) , the resources for you are : <URL> - The IRS official web site , that has all the up-to-date forms and instructions for them , guiding publications and the relevant rules . You might get a bit overwhelmed through . Software programs - TurboTax ( <URL> for a sole propriator or single member LLC , <URL> for more complicated business ) , or <URL> ( only one version that should cover all ) are for your guidance . They provide tips and interactive guidance in filling in all the raw data , and produce all the forms filled for you according to the raw data you entered . I personally prefer TurboTax , I think its interface is nicer and the workflow is more intuitive , but that 's my personal preference . I wrote about it <URL> last year . Both also include plug-ins for the state taxes ( If I remember correctly , for both the first state is included in the price , if you need more than 1 state - there 's extra $ 30 - $ 40 per state ) . Your state tax authority web site ( <URL> in your case ) . Both Intuit and H&amp;R Block have on-line forums where people answer each others questions while using the software to prepare the taxes , you might find useful information there . As always , <URL> is your friend . Now , why I think this is a mistake . Mistakes that you make - will be your responsibility . If you use the software - they 'll cover the calculation mistakes . But if you write income in a wrong specification or take a wrong deduction that you should n't have taken - it will be on your head and you 're the one to pay the fines and penalties for that . Missed deductions and credits - CPA 's ( should ) know about all the latest deductions and credits that you or your business might be entitled to . They also ( should ) know which one got canceled and you should n't be continuing taking them if you had before . Expenses - there are plenty of rules of what can be written off as an expense and how . Some things should be written off this year , others over several years , for some depreciation formula should be used , etc etc. . Tax programs might help you with that , but again - mistakes are your responsibility . Especially for the first time and for the newly formed business , I think you should use a ( good ! ) CPA . The CPA should take responsibility over your filing . The CPA should provide guarantee that based on the documents you provided , he filled all the necessary forms correctly , and will absorb all the fees and penalties if there 's an audit and mistakes were found not because you withheld information from your CPA , but because the CPA made a mistake . That costs money , and that 's why the CPA 's are more expensive than using a program or preparing yourself . But , the risk is much higher , especially for a new business . And after all - its a business expense .
Credit cards are meant to be used so generally it does n't hurt your credit score to use them . To top it off you even get an interest grace period so you do n't have to rush home and pay balances as soon as they 're charged . In general you accrue charges during your statement period , we 'll call it September 1 through September 30 . The statement due date is something like 20 days after the close of the statement period , so we 'll call it October 20 . As long as you habitually pay your entire statement balance by the due date you will never pay interest . You charge your laptop on September 3 , it shows up on your statement as $ 1,300 , you pay $ 1,300 on October 18 , you pay no interest . However , if you pay $ 1,000 on October 18 leaving a $ 300 balance to be carried in to the next statement period ( a carried balance ) you will pay interest . Generally interest is calculated based on your average daily balance during the statement period , which is now be the October 1 to October 31 period . You 'll notice that you did n't pay anything until the October 18 , that means the entire $ 1,300 will be included in your average daily balance up to the 18th of the month . Add to that , anything else you charge on the card now will be included in your average daily balance for interest charge calculation purposes . The moral of the story is , use your card , and pay your entire statement balance before the due date . Now how much will this impact your credit score ? It 's tough to say . Utilization is not a bad thing until it 's a big number . I 've read that 70 % utilization and over is really the point at which lenders will raise an eyebrow and under 30 % is considered excellent . If you have one card and $ 1,300 is a significant portion of your available limit , then yes you should probably pay it down quickly . Spend six or so months using the card and paying it , then call your bank and ask for a credit line increase .
If you are using T-mobile you do n't have to put $ 100 in each year to keep your minutes for a year . Once you spend $ 100 you get a year with any additional minutes you buy . Buying them $ 100 at a time is the cheapest way - but when you renew you can renew with only $ 50 or $ 30 and you have a year to use them from the last time you bought . I did this this year - only put $ 50 on each phone because we do n't use $ 100 worth in a year .
If he 's not used to cooking , recipes might not be enough . Maybe he needs cooking lessons . I used to think if you could read , you could cook -- but I grew up " helping " my mom in the kitchen and in the process learning what all the instructions in cookbooks meant . But it also might just be force of habit , in which case about all you could do would be to go over and cook for ( or with ) him . Maybe if you helped him get into a good habit , he would be more likely to continue with it . Otherwise , I do n't see that there 's much of anything you can do . If he is n't motivated to change his habits to save for his trip , you ca n't make him be .
Not much at all , especially an introductory level Microeconomics class . There are a few reasons for this : Finance and investing is not actually economics . Some of economics surrounds investing , but economics as a field is much wider than that . The class will likely cover the concepts behind how you theoretically make economic decisions , and not why putting your life savings into a 3x short leveraged ETF will ruin everything . It 's an introductory class . While it may give you the foundations of understanding how the economy works , it 's not going to prepare you for the more complex world that actually exists . Supply and demand curves and other theoretical frameworks are all well and good , but it 's no more going to make you an astute investor than taking a introductory class in human physiology is going to make you a decent doctor . The economics is not finance thing again . The market is n't rational . You are n't rational . The toy models that you 'll work with are only tangentially useful . That 's not to say that Economics is n't worth studying . I loved both my Micro and Macro class . But I probably got more useful investing knowledge from a class on linear regression .
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
Reading financial statements is important , in the sense that it gives you a picture of whether revenues and profits are growing or shrinking , and what management thinks the future will look like . The challenge is , there are firms that make computers read filings for them and inform their trading strategy . If the computer thinks the stock price is below the growth model , it 's likely to bid the stock up . And since it 's automated it 's moving it faster than you can open your web browser . Does this mean you should n't read them ? In a sense , no . The only sensible trading strategy is to assume you hold things for as long as their fundamentals exceed market value . Financial statements are where you find those fundamentals . So you should read them . But your question is , is it worth it for investors ? My answer is no ; the market generally factors information in quickly and efficiently . You 're better off sticking to passive mutual funds than trying to trade . The better reason to learn to read these filings is to get a better sense of your employer , potential employers , competitors and even suppliers . Knowing what your margins are , what your suppliers margins and acquisitions are , and what they 're planning can inform your own decision making .
In my area , the fixed prices are based on an average . My gas company will look at my previous months ( six months if I remember correctly ) payments and give me an average based on that amount . Then I am contracted for a year based on that average . If I lower my costs , I 'm under contract and will not see the savings but if I go over for some reason , I will save money there . It really depends on how your utility companies work so I would check with them , look at your previous billing cycles and determine if the plan will possibly save you money . Of course some things ca n't be planned for such as the economic downturn like someone else mentioned .
There are way too many details missing to be able to give you an accurate answer , and it would be too localized in terms of time &amp; location anyway -- the rules change every year , and your local taxes make the answer useless to other people . Instead , here 's how to figure out the answer for yourself . Use a tax estimate calculator to get a ballpark figure . ( And keep in mind that these only provide estimates , because there are still a lot of variables that are only considered when you 're actually filling out your real tax return . ) There are a number of calculators if you search for something like " tax estimator calculator " , some are more sophisticated than others . ( Fair warning : I used several of these and they told me a range of $ 2k - $ 25k worth of taxes owed for a situation like yours . ) Here 's an estimator from <URL> -- it 's handy because it lets you enter business income . When I plug in $ 140K ( $ 70 * 40 hours * 50 weeks ) for business income in 2010 , married filing jointly , no spouse income , and 4 dependents , I get $ 30K owed in federal taxes . ( That does n't include local taxes , any itemized deductions you might be eligible for , IRA deductions , etc. . You may also be able to claim some expenses as business deductions that will reduce your taxable business income . ) So you 'd net $ 110K after taxes , or about $ 55/hour ( $ 110k / 50 / 40 ) . Of course , you could get an answer from the calculator , and Congress could change the rules midway through the year -- you might come out better or worse , depending on the nature of the rule changes ... that 's why I stress that it 's an estimate . If you take the job , do n't forget to make <URL> ! Edit : ( some additional info ) If you plan on doing this on an ongoing basis ( i.e. you are going into business as a contractor for this line of work ) , there are some tax shelters that you can take advantage of . Most of these wo n't be worth doing if you are only going to be doing contract work for a short period of time ( 1-2 years ) . These may or may not all be applicable to you . And do your research into these areas before diving in , I 'm just scratching the surface in the notes below . Retirement plan . You can set up an Individual 401 ( k ) account and stash " up to " $ 49k tax-free ( you would n't qualify for this much though ) . Or you can open a SEP IRA ( which is a bit cheaper and simpler to set up ) , and save around $ 35k tax-free . Health care . You do n't mention if you have a spouse who works , and if you have health care through that employment . If you get a high-deductible health plan and establish a Health Savings Account , the premiums for the insurance should be deductible , and you can save up to $ 6150 in the HSA which is deductible . ( To be clear , I think the health care premiums you pay are deductible whether you have HDHP+HSA or not , but check with your accountant first . ) Disability insurance . It will take you a couple of years to have a track record before you 'll be able to buy it , but disability insurance premiums may be deductible . Be sure to talk to your accountant first , though , because choosing to deduct these premiums can have large consequences in the event that you need to collect on this insurance .
When I have asked for " cash back " at the register it has been treated as part of the purchase , and not as a cash advance . The monthly credit card bill always notes that by cash advance balance is always zero . I have noticed that one of the cards ( Discover ) does know about the cash back because the description on the website for the transaction does mention the amount of cash back I received . But still the cash advance balance is zero . The amount you can receive in cash back is based on the limits set by the store and the card company .
I maybe uninformed , but I have n't heard of a broker that lets you trade with credit cards or Paypal .
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
end question
start question
Invest in new mutual funds before the end of the year , or after , in a retirement account ?
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
In Canada , calculating the capital gain from selling a partial position is done based on average cost , as opposed to using First-In-First-Out ( FIFO ) or other rules distinguishing units based on date acquired . ( e.g. Canada does n't contrast " short-term " vs. " long-term " gains like the U.S. does . ) New units and old units in your non-registered accounts are all considered part of the same position when it comes to figuring the capital gains . The cost per unit you need to calculate to determine your capital gain is known officially as the <URL> , or ACB . From a simplistic perspective -- i.e. where no distributions were received -- the ACB per unit is the average price paid ( including commissions paid to acquire the shares or units . ) From this perspective , and probably incorrect for a mutual fund , your ACB would be : For typical company shares paying typical dividends , the ACB calculation would likely end there , as dividends are not a factor in the gain calculation -- unless you are <URL> . The ACB calculation is more complicated for mutual funds , exchange-traded funds , closed-end-funds , and income trusts , due to the kinds of distributions made by such investment vehicles . Distributions are frequently composed of more than just dividends . Fund distributions often contain components like <URL> ( ROC ) and distributed capital gains , i.e. when the fund itself realizes net gains on transactions in the portfolio and passes them through to you . Return-of-capital distributions reduce your ACB . Capital gain distributions increase your ACB . You do n't want to be taxed twice on distributed gains , so be sure to figure your ACB correctly . You can know if your fund issued those specific kinds of distributions by looking at the tax slips received , checking with the fund company ( e.g. their web site ) , or your broker/advisor . So , imagine if , in your example , you had also received $ 600 worth of distributions , identified as $ 80 dividends , $ 20 " other " income ( e.g. interest ) , $ 450 return-of-capital , and $ 50 capital gains . Then , your ACB per unit would then be : And so if you sold 300 units at $ 10 each , the net gain on the sale would be : ( And your $ 80 dividends and $ 20 " other " income would be taxed separately on your return , at their respective tax rates . ) I hope this helps . Here are some additional resources to check out : <URL> <URL> <URL>
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
What the automation mostly does is make short-term trading that much more difficult . Day trading is a zero-sum game , so if they win more , everyone else wins less . Long term trading ( years to decades ) is a positive-sum game ; the market as a whole tends to move upward for fairly obvious reasons ( at its basis it 's still investing , which in turn is based on lending , and as long as folks make fairly rational decisions about how much return they demand for their investment and the companies are mostly producing profits there will be a share of the profit coming back to the investors as dividends or increased share value or both . Day-to-day churn in individual stocks gets averaged out by diversification and time , and by the assumption that if you 've waited that long you can wait a bit longer if necessary for jitters to settle out . Time periods between those will partake of some mix of the two .
If I do n't need this money for decades , meaning I can ride out periodical market crashes , why would I invest in bonds instead of funds that track broad stock market indexes ? You would n't . But you can never be 100 % sure that you really wo n't need the money for decades . Also , even if you do n't need it for decades , you can never be 100 % certain that the market will not be way down at the time , decades in the future , when you do need the money . The amount of your portfolio you allocate to bonds ( relative to stocks ) can be seen as a measure of your desire to guard against that uncertainty . I do n't think it 's accurate to say that " the general consensus is that your portfolio should at least be 25 % in bonds " . For a young investor with high risk tolerance , many would recommend less than that . For instance , <URL> from T. Rowe Price suggests no more than 10 % bonds for those in their 20s or 30s . Basically you would put money into bonds rather than stocks to reduce the volatility of your portfolio . If you care only about maximizing return and do n't care about volatility , then you do n't have to invest in bonds . But you probably actually do care about volatility , even if you do n't think you do . You might not care enough to put 25 % in bonds , but you might care enough to put 10 % in bonds .
If I were you , I would pay off the car loan today . You already have an excellent credit score . Practically speaking , there is no difference between a 750 score and an 850 score ; you are already eligible for the best loan rates . The fact that you are continuing to use 5 credit cards and that you still have a mortgage tells me that this car loan will have a negligible impact on your score ( and your life ) . By the way , if you had told me that your score was low , I would still tell you to pay off the loan , but for a different reason . In that case , I would tell you to stop worrying about your score , and start getting your financial life in order by eliminating debt . Take care of your finances by reducing the amount of debt in your life , and the score will take care of itself . I realize that the financial industry stresses the importance of a high score , but they are also the ones that sell you the debt necessary to obtain the high score .
If your current pay is sufficient to support the debt , it would be better to apply for the loan now , with more of a job history . Sufficient depends on the lender , but generally you need a debt-to-income ratio of 36 % or less . Income means income and debt means all debt including the new car loan , mortgage , credit cards , student loans , etc. . If you need the new , higher income to meet the debt-to-income ratio , you 'll have to wait and take your chances .
You could look into an index fund or ETF that invests primarily in Real Estate Investment Trusts ( <URL> ) . An REIT is any corporation , trust or association that acts as an investment agent specializing in real estate and real estate mortgages Many investment firms offer an index fund or ETF like this . For example , <URL> and <URL> have funds that invest primarily in real estate markets . You could also invest in a home construction ETF , like iShares ' <URL> , which invests in companies related to home construction . This ETF includes more companies than just REITs , so for example , Home Depot is included .
Quite a few stock broker in India offer to trade in US markets via tie-up brokers in US . As an Indian citizen , there are limits as to how much FX you can buy , generally very large , should be an issue . The profits will be taxed in US as well as India [ you can claim relief under DTAA ]
Options : Buy Vanguard Bond Funds that are tax free for wherever you live . Put the money into the highest yield savings account you can find ( for amounts over 5k this is probably going to be 1.25 % ) Put the money into the highest yield CD you can find . ( personally I did the first and it is working well ) .
Yahoo 's primary business is n't providing mutual fund performance data . They aim to be convenient , but often leave something to be desired in terms of completeness . Try <URL> instead . Their mission is investment research . Here 's <URL> . If you scroll down , you 'll see :
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
Let me start by giving you a snippet of a report that will floor you . Beat the market ? Investors lag the market by so much that many call the industry a scam . <URL> This is the 2015 year end data from a report titled Quantitive Analysis of Investor Behavior by a firm , Dalbar . It boggles the mind that the disparity could be this bad . A mix of stocks and bonds over 30 years should average 8.5 % or so . Take out fees , and even 7.5 % would be the result I expect . The average investor return was less than half of this . Jack Bogle , founder of Vanguard , and considered the father of the index fund , was ridiculed . A pamphlet I got from Vanguard decades ago quoted fund managers as saying that " indexing is a path to mediocrity . " Fortunately , I was a numbers guy , read all I could that Jack wrote and got most of that 10.35 % , less .05 , down to .02 % over the years . To answer the question : psychology . People are easily scammed as they want to believe they can beat the market . Or that they 'll somehow find a fund that does it for them . I 'm tempted to say ignorance or some other hint at lack of intelligence , but that would be unfair to the professionals , all of which were scammed by Madoff . Individual funds may not be scams , but investors are partly to blame , buy high , sell low , and you get the results above , I dare say , an investor claiming to use index funds might not fare much better than the 3.66 % 30 year return above , if they follow that path , buying high , selling low . Edit - I am adding this line to be clear - My conclusion , if any , is that the huge disparity can not be attributed to management , a 6.7 % lag from the S&amp;P return to what the average investor sees likely comes from bad trading . To the comments by Dave , we have a manager that consistently beats the market over any 2-3 year period . You have been with him 30 years and are clearly smiling about your relationship and investing decision . Yet , he still has flows in and out . People buy at the top when reading how good he is , and selling right after a 30 % drop even when he actually beat by dropping just 22 % . By getting in and out , he has a set of clients with a 30 year record of 6 % returns , while you have just over 11 % . This paragraph speaks to the behavior of the investor , not managed vs indexed .
Just the principal contribution counts towards the limit . In your example , if you contribute 30,000 and you earn 20,000 , only the 30,000 counts . To find out exactly how much room you have , you can log into CRA 's MyAccount and it will tell you : <URL>
How I recognize a silver bubble : It seems like everyone is talking about their latest silver investment . This is similar to tech stocks in the '90s and real estate in the ' 00s . Your plumber is talking about how he is making a fortune in silver . Your brother-in-law is talking about how is making a fortune in silver . New investment products are being announced almost daily offering different ways to invest in silver - indexes , etf 's , mining companies , securitization products , etc. . Many investors talk about how you ca n't go wrong with silver . It 's a " no-brainer " . I do n't think silver is in a bubble . You state : What goes up , must come down I 'm not sure I agree with this . Yes , prices fluctuate . But most prices generally go up over time due to inflation - somethings more than others . Was coffee in a bubble in early 2005 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Was gold in a bubble in Argentina in 2001 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this ( sorry for the mismatching chart scales ) : Was gold in a bubble in Weimar in 1922 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Maybe US farmland is in a bubble since prices are rising rather dramatically . I do n't think it is in a bubble since I rarely hear anyone talking about investing in farmland :
Check this list : <URL> . TASE is denominated in NIS , and most , if not all , companies that are traded there are tied to Israel and its currency . You can try going with the global companies ( TEVA , NICE etc ) which although are traded on TASE and are Israeli , have large global presence and are not dependent on Israeli market or currency ( of course they are , but not tightly ) . In Israel there 's tons of various mutual funds that you can invest through without hassle , and save yourself the dealing with foreign exchanges by paying the slightly higher management fees and getting slightly lower income and lack of flexibility and control . Or you can convert a large sum of NIS to USD ( through an investment house it will be much cheaper than through a bank , I 'm talking about commissions of $ 25-45 including the SWIFT fees here ) , and open an investment account in a US firm ( or Israeli investment house that allows trading abroad ) . That is actually pretty simple and straight forward . Oh , and bottom line - do n't do your investments in a bank . Not in Israel , and not everywhere else . Banks are not for investments , banks are for dealing with cash and short term savings .
In 2008 , the S&amp;P was down 37 % . I love charts that show <URL> , as it helps show that 2008 was n't like the crash of 2000-01 which was more tech-centric . Funds that were more geared towards bonds would have been up as the 10 year Treasury was up 20 % . I understand you have a low risk tolerance . Over the long term , this will cost you . The <URL> from 1928-2011 was 9.23 % , for treasuries , 5.14 % . This difference adds up dramatically over time . These rates double your stock investments every 8 years on average vs nearly 14 years for bonds . See the <URL> site to tinker with start/finish years to understand long term returns .
end question
start question
HSA contribution cap on a new HDHP plan ?
The HSA contribution limits for a partial year can be very confusing . This is discussed in <URL> . There are two different ways to determine what your limits should be : the prorated limit and the last-month rule . Prorated Limit The standard way to handle the contribution limit for a partial year is to prorate the limit for the number of months that you had HDHP coverage . There is a worksheet on the <URL> that walks you through this , but essentially here is how it works . For each month , you determine what kind of HDHP coverage you had on the first day of the month . In 2015 , if you had single coverage , you would enter $ 3350 for that month , if you had family coverage , you would enter $ 6650 , and if you had no HDHP coverage , you would enter 0 . Add up all 12 months and divide by 12 . This is your contribution limit for that year . In your example , where you had single HDHP coverage only on December 1 , 2015 , your contribution limit using this method would be $ 279 . Last Month Rule If you want to contribute more , you may want to use the last month rule . The last month rule states that if you have HDHP coverage on the first day of the last month in the tax year ( December ) , you can contribute the entire annual limit for the year ( $ 3350 for 2015 ) . However , there is a catch . If you use the last month rule , you are subject to a testing period . This testing period begins on the first day of the last month ( December 1 , 2015 ) and continues until the end of the following year ( December 31 , 2016 ) . In order to use the last month rule , you need to remain covered by an HDHP for the entire testing period . If you use the last month rule , but fail to remain eligible for the entire testing period , you will need to add the extra amount that you contributed back into your income for the following year . In addition , there is a 10 % penalty . In your example , since you are covered on December 1 , 2015 , you are able to use the last month rule and contribute up to $ 3350 . If you remain covered by an HDHP for all of 2016 , everything is fine . However , if you stop being covered by an HDHP at some point during 2016 , you will have to add to your 2016 income whatever amount you contributed to your HSA in 2015 that was over $ 279 . In addition , you 'll pay a 10 % penalty on this extra amount .
Here is a <URL> A google of HSA administrators turns up quite a list . These accounts are separate from IRAs , and an IRA ca n't substitute . The HSA is required to have the HDHP and the insurer running it should be offering you the linked HSA partners as they are closely tied .
You ca n't roll it over to a Roth IRA without tax penalties . The best thing to do is roll it to an IRA that is n't tied to work at all . Second best is to roll it into your new employer 's 401k . The reason that an IRA makes sense is that it gives you the same tax savings as a 401k , but it allows you to remain in control of the money regardless of your employment status .
I think the relevant document is <URL> , in the section " Distributions from an HSA " several subheadings down : Additional Tax There is an additional 10 % tax on the part of your distributions not used for qualified medical expenses . which is followed by : Exceptions . There is no additional tax on distributions made after the date you are disabled , reach age 65 , or die . So your understanding is mostly correct -- the age threshold is 65 , not 59.5 . Under current rules . The rules could change between now and whenever you reach 65 . With that said , I 'm mostly just leaving money in my HSA -- that account has the highest rate of return of any ( insured ) account I have , and like you say it is basically another way to get a deduction and save for later . I could n't find any info on rolling over to a Roth or an IRA , except that you ca n't do it . ( Though none of the sources I found mention a reference to IRS docs . ) Edit : I should also mention that , after 65 , distributions from the HSA to pay insurance premiums are qualified ( tax free ) . See the link to Pub 969 above . So if you are careful about how you spend the HSA money in retirement , it can be used tax free . ( I.e. spend out of the HSA to cover medical expenses , then draw down your IRAs for non-qualified spending . )
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
If you have just started an IRA ( presumably with a contribution for 2012 ) , you likely have $ 5000 in it , or $ 10,000 if you made a full contribution for 2013 as well . At this time , I would recommend putting it all in a single low-cost mutual fund . Typically , mutual funds that track an index such as the S&amp;P 500 Index have lower costs ( annual expense fees ) than actively managed funds , and most investment companies offer such mutual funds , with Fidelity , Vanguard , Schwab , to name a few , having very low expenses even among index funds . Later , when you have more money in the account , you can consider diversifying into more funds , buying stocks and bonds , investing in ETFs , etc. . Incidentally , if you are just starting out and your Roth IRA is essentially your first investment experience , be aware that you do not need a brokerage account for your Roth IRA until you have more money in the account to invest and specifically want to buy individual stocks and bonds instead of just mutual funds . If you opened a brokerage account for your Roth IRA , close it and transfer the Roth IRA to your choice of mutual fund company ; else you will be paying annual fees to the brokerage for maintaining your account , inactivity fees since you wo n't be doing any trading , etc. . The easiest way to do this is to go to the mutual fund company web site and tell them that you want to transfer your IRA to them ( not roll over your IRA to them ) and they will take care of all the paper work and collecting your money from the brokerage ( ditto if your Roth IRA is with a bank or another mutual fund company ) . Then close your brokerage account .
The penny/pink sheet stocks you tend to see promoted are the ones a ) with small public floats or , b ) they are thinly traded . This means that any appreciable change in buy/sell volume will have an outsized effect on the stock 's share price , even when the underlying fundamentals are not so great . Promoters are frequently paid based on how much they can move a stock 's price , but such moves are not long-lasting . They peter out when the trading volumes return to more normal ranges for the stock because all of the hype has died out . There are some small-cap NASDAQ stocks which can be susceptible to promotion for the same reason -- they have small floats and/or are thinly traded . Once someone figures out the best targets , they 'll accumulate a position and then start posting all kinds of " news " on the web in an effort to drum up interest so they can sell off their position into the buying that follows . The biggest problem with penny/pink sheet stocks is that they frequently fail to publish reliable financial statements , and their ownership is of a dubious nature . In the past , these types of stocks have been targeted by organized crime syndicates , which ran their own " pump and dump " operations as a way to make relatively easy money . This may still be true to some extent today . Be wary of investing in any publicly-traded firm that has to use promoters to drum up investor interest , because it can be a serious red flag . Even if it means missing out on a short-term opportunity , research the company before investing . Read its financials , understand how it has behaved through its trading history , learn about the products/services it is selling . Do your homework . Otherwise you are doing the investing equivalent of taking your money and lighting it on fire . Remember , there 's a good reason these companies are trading as penny/pink sheet stocks , and it generally has nothing to do with the notion ( the promoters will tell you ) that somehow the " market has missed out on this amazing opportunity . " Pump and dump schemes , which lie at the heart of almost all stock promotion , rely on convincing you , the investor , that you 're smart enough to see what others have n't . I hope this helps . Good luck !
Contributions to 401k plans have to come from the wages that the employer is paying you , and can not be made from external funds . Many plans will allow for a large percentage to be withheld from a single paycheck or from the remaining paychecks for the current year , and for that time , you can live off the surplus of cash from the sale .
These are similar but one outcome is easier to manager first : Hard Pull does negatively effect credit slightly ( " new credit " on that chart ) second : A lower credit utilization ratio ( " amounts owed " on the chart ) increases your credit greater than a hard pull does . In both scenarios ( getting a new card vs increase on an existing card ) , if approved , you will have a lower credit utilization ratio , thereby increasing your credit if you keep that ratio low and pay minimums . But if you just keep one card , and that card has a higher limit , then you will have more flexibility on the size of purchases you can make without effecting your utilization ratio . Making the option of a credit increase on an existing card easier to manage . It is also more likely to get approved for a greater credit increase on an existing card than getting approved for a new card . ( ie . its more likely you may get a store-specific nonvisa/nonmastercard/nonamericanexpress card , or a card with a low limit ) . So if you want to take chances with your hard pulls , know what you are more likely to get instead of wasting a hard pull .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
Note that your link shows the shares as of March 31 , 2016 while <URL> notes a 2-for-1 stock split so thus you have to double the shares to get the proper number is what you are missing . The stock split occurred in May and thus is after the deadline that you quoted .
You have n't mentioned how much debt your example company has . Rarely does a company not carry any kind of debt ( credit facilities , outstanding bonds or debentures , accounts payable , etc. ) Might it owe , for instance , $ 1B in outstanding loans or bonds ? Looking at debt too is critically important if you want to conduct the kind of analysis you 're talking about . Consider that the fundamental <URL> says : or , But in your example you 're assuming the assets and equity ought to be equal , discounting the possibility of debt . Debt changes everything . You need to look at the value of the net assets of the company ( i.e. subtracting the debt ) , not just the value of its assets alone . Shareholders are residual claimants on the assets of the company , i.e. after all debt claims have been satisfied . This means the government ( taxes owed ) , the bank ( loans to repay ) , and bondholders are due their payback before determining what is leftover for the shareholders .
Shares are partial ownership of the company . A company can issue ( not create ) more of the shares it owns at any time , to anyone , at any price -- subject to antitrust and similar regulations . If they wanted to , for example , flat-out give 10 % of their retained interest to charity , they could do so . It should n't substantially affect the stock 's trading for others unless there 's a completely irrational demand for shares .
According to IRS Pub 502 : You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for transportation to another city if the trip is primarily for , and essential to , receiving medical services . You may be able to include up to $ 50 for each night for each person . You can include lodging for a person traveling with the person receiving the medical care . For example , if a parent is traveling with a sick child , up to $ 100 per night can be included as a medical expense for lodging . Meals are not included . See Lodging , earlier . You can not include in medical expenses a trip or vacation taken merely for a change in environment , improvement of morale , or general improvement of health , even if the trip is made on the advice of a doctor . However , see Medical Conferences , earlier . My interpretation of this would be the following test : 1 . Is the trip primarily for the procedure ? According to your statements , yes . 2 . Is the trip essential to receiving the care ? According to your statements , yes , because you can save a lot of money by doing this compared to having just the procedure done in the US . ( Or maybe you can not afford it otherwise . ) It appears to me that you can deduct the cost of the procedure , the airfare , and then $ 100/night . If it were me I would document a few different quotes from dentists local to you showing that it is in fact more expensive like you said it is , and file that away with your receipts . It also would be a good idea to ask the dentist in Costa Rica how much just the procedure is by itself , and then the airfare too , because you 'll likely need that in your calculation of how much to deduct . Also , make sure the itemized cost of the procedure itself is " reasonable " . If the trip costs 10K , and they tell you that the deductible parts equal $ 9,999 , and then $ 1 is for food , entertainment , etc , that is likely not reasonable in the eyes of an auditor . Also , in general , remember that just because you 're saving money and getting A + B ( B for bonus ) instead of just A , that does n't mean that B is deductible . One has nothing to do with the other . Lastly , for deductions of this magnitude , I 'd highly recommend talking to an accountant , because I am not one . ( And if you do , please report back . I 'm curious to know where they agree/disagree with me . )
Your spouse is eligible for an HSA even if you have one as long as she is covered by a qualified high-deductible plan . In the case that you both had HSAs you would be limited in how much you contribute each year , but both can have accounts . In 2015 , you could each contribute $ 3350 to your separate HSA plans . If you have a combined plan , and even if you switched mid year , you could contribute $ 6650 during that year total to the two HSAs . That can be divided any way you want as long as the total does not exceed that maximum for the year . You can contribute an extra $ 1000 if you are over 55 years old . ( I should probably also mention that you can still make contributions for the 2015 year until April 15 , 2016 , because it 's relevant to most who would read this . Also you can only contribute a percentage of that limit matching the percentage of months that you are covered , but if you are covered for the last month of the year , you can contribute the full amount as long as you are covered for the ENTIRE following year . )
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
Like JoeTaxpayer said , I do n't know of any difference between the backdoor and a regular Roth IRA contribution besides the issue with existing pre-tax IRA money . So if it is your practice to contribute at the beginning of the year ( good for you , most people wait until the last minute ) , then doing a backdoor seems like the safe choice . Some people have speculated that , hypothetically , the IRS could use the " step transaction doctrine " to treat it as a single direct contribution to a Roth IRA ( which then would be disallowed and cause you a penalty until you take it out ) , but I have never heard of this happening to anyone . As for the paperwork , you just need to fill out one extra form at tax time , Form 8606 ( you need to complete two parts of it , one for the non-deductible contribution , and one for the conversion ) . It is pretty straightforward . ( Although I 've found that it is a pain to do it in tax software . ) Another option would be for you to contribute to a Roth IRA now , but when you discover that you 're over the limit at the end of the year , re-characterize it as a Traditional contribution and then convert it back to Roth . But this way is not good because then there is a long time between the Traditional contribution and the Roth conversion , and earnings during this time will be taxed at conversion .
No , you should certify your correct tax status when you open a bank account . I have never been asked to provide any proof of address , and I 've opened several bank accounts . What you need to do is probably to shop around and consider opening in person in the branch and not online .
end question
start question
Shorting : What if you ca n't find lenders ?
If you ca n't find anyone to lend you the shares , then you ca n't short . You can attempt to raise the interest rate at which you will borrow at , in order to entice others to lend you their shares . In practice , broadcasting this information is pretty convoluted . If there are n't any stocks for you to buy back , then you have to buy back at a higher price . As in , place a limit buy order higher and higher until someone decides to sell to you . This affects your profit . Regarding the public ledger : This functions different in different markets . United States stock markets have an evolving body of regulations to alleviate the exact concerns you detailed , but Canada 's or Dubai 's stock markets would have different provisions . You make the assumption that it is an efficient process , but it is not and it is indeed ripe for abuse . In US stocks , the public ledger has a 3 business day delay between showing change of ownership . Many times brokers and clearing firms and other market participants allow a customer to go short with fake shares , with the idea that they will find real shares within the 3 business day time period to cover the position . During the time period that there is no real shares hitting the market , this is called a " naked short " . The only legal system that attempts to deter this practice is the " fail to deliver " ( FTD ) list . If someone fails to deliver , that means there is a short position active with fake shares for which no real shares have been borrowed against . Too many FTD 's allow for a short selling restriction to be placed , meaning nobody else can be short , and existing short sellers may be forced to cover .
If you are at the point where the credit agency is attempting to verify your identity , they may very well put up lines of credit that you never had . Just answer accurately to the two or three questions . If they ca n't find you , you might have a problem of just not having much of a report , or worse you might be " married " to another similar account . For example if you are a Jr. and your father a Sr. the agencies might have you all mixed up .
<URL> of what 's required to handle the reporting of tip income . To address this question specifically , here 's the relevant instructions from that post : If your allocated tips are less than what 's recorded in your daily log , and you reported your tips to your employer , then it is likely that something is wrong with your employer 's recordkeeping system . You can ask your employer to correct your W-2 . You should report the allocated tips on Form 4137 , plus any additional tips you show in your daily records .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
It does make sense to combine debts and pay off the worst ( highest interest rate ) . However , if you ca n't get any loan , you should focus on the worst debt and pay that off . Then take the same amount of money you were paying to the next worse debt , and so on until you 're clean . Let 's look at an example . Debt A is at 5 % , Debt B is at 10 % and Debt C is at 15 % . You are paying AB and C. On a monthly basis , you save 100 $ to pay off C . Once C is payed off , you keep on saving 100 $ and add whatever you were paying to Debt C to those savings . This way , you can pay off Debt B at an increased rate . When B is cleared , you save 100 $ + whatever you were paying to Debt B and Debt C to clear Debt A. That 's the theory .
You need a source of delisted historical data . Such data is typically only available from paid sources . According to my records , AULT ( Ault Inc ) began as an OTC stock in the 1980s prior it having an official NASDAQ listing . It was delisted on 27 Jan 2006 . Its final traded price was $ 2.94 . It was taken over at a price of $ 2.90 per share by SL Industries . Source : Symbol AULT-200601 within Premium Data US delisted stocks historical price data set available from <URL> Disclosure : I am a co-owner of Norgate / Premium Data .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
You would report the overall income on your <URL> , and use form <URL> to report income and expenses for your business . Form T2125 is like a mini income-statement where you report your gross revenue and subtract off expenses . Being able to claim legitimate expenses as a deduction is an important tax benefit for businesses big and small . In terms of your second question , you generally need to register for a business number at least once you cross the threshold for GST / HST . If you earn $ 30,000 / year ( or spread over four consecutive quarters ) then charging GST / HST is mandatory ; see <URL> . There are other conditions as well , but the threshold is the principal one . You can also register voluntarily for GST / HST even if you 're below that threshold ; see <URL> . The advantage of registering voluntarily is that you can claim input tax credits ( ITC ) on any GST that your business pays , and remit only the difference . That saves your business money , especially if you have a lot of expenses early on . Finally , in terms of Ontario specifically ( saw that on your profile ) , you might want to check out <URL> . There are specific cases in which you need to register a business : e.g. specific types of businesses , or if you plan on doing business under a name other than your own . Finally , you may want to consider whether incorporating might be better for you . Here 's an interesting article that compares <URL> . Here 's another article , <URL> , from the feds .
He will be able to collect the full amount . From <URL> , emphasis added : If you were born January 2 , 1943 , through January 1 , 1955 , , then your full retirement age for retirement insurance benefits is 66 . If you work , and are full retirement age or older , you may keep all of your benefits , no matter how much you earn . If you 're younger than full retirement age , there is a limit to how much you can earn and still receive full Social Security benefits . If you 're younger than full retirement age during all of 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 2 you earn above $ 15,720 . If you reach full retirement age during 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 3 you earn above $ 41,880 until the month you reach full retirement age .
If the person has prepared ( " put your affairs in order " ) then they will have a will and an executor . And this executor will have a list of the life insurance policies and will contact the companies to arrange payouts to the beneficiaries . It 's not really the beneficiary 's job to do that . If the person has n't made a list of their policies , but has a will and an executor , then the executor can try things like looking at recently paid bills ( you 're sending $ 100 a month to " Friendly Life Insurance Company " ? Bet it 's a life insurance policy ) or paperwork that is in the person 's home or their safety deposit boxes . Even if you do n't have the key to those boxes , a copy of the will and the death certificate will get the box drilled out for you . If you do n't know what bank they might have SD boxes at , again your paperwork will get the manager to find out for you if there is a box at that particular branch , so a day spent visiting branches can be fruitful . ( Something I know from personal experience with someone whose affairs were nowhere near in order . ) Generally you find out you 're a beneficiary of a will because the executor tells you . I suppose it 's possible that a person might name you beneficiary of their life insurance without telling you or anyone else , and without writing a will , but it 's pretty unlikely . If you 're worried , I suggest you encourage your parents , grandparents , and other likely namers of you to write up some paperwork and keep it somewhere family is likely to find it . ( Not hidden inside a book on a bookcase or in the back of the wool cupboard . )
I am going to answer my own question . First of all , if your broker trades bonds , then you can find their historical rates there . Next , if you do n't have a broker that trades bonds go to FINRA 's bond center at <URL>
There are a lot of unintended consequences of fairly arbitrary IRS guidelines when it comes to 401Ks , they both close and create tons of loopholes and many companies are left to implement their own policy around these laws . Ultimately what you are left with are a lot of random things , interpreted differently by every single company in the country , that are n't directly codified by the IRS or Congress . If you have a choice regarding what brokerage firm manages your 401 ( k ) , then just call around . Be sure to ask the pencil pusher on the phone to double check because they might say " OF COURSE you can get paperless statements it is 2015 " but then when you sign up it becomes " ooohhh sorry due to recent guidelines this kind of account is n't eligible for paperless statements "
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
An Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) is a special type of mutual fund that is traded on the stock exchange like a stock . To invest , you buy it through a stock broker , just as you would if you were buying an individual stock . When looking at a mutual fund based in the U.S. , the easiest way to tell whether or not it is an ETF is by looking at the ticker symbol . Traditional mutual funds have ticker symbols that end in " X " , and ETFs have ticker symbols that do not end in " X " . The <URL> , with ticker symbol JFAMX , is a traditional mutual fund , not an ETF . <URL> ; the <URL> , with ticker symbol JPEM , is an example . This ETF invests in similar stocks as JFAMX ; however , because it is an index-based fund instead of an actively managed fund , it has lower fees . If you are n't sure about the ticker symbol , the advertising/prospectus of any ETF should clearly state that it is an ETF . ( In the example of JPEM above , they put " ETF " right in the fund name . ) If you do n't see ETF mentioned , it is most likely a traditional mutual fund . Another way to tell is by looking at the " investment minimums " of the fund . <URL> of $ 1000 . ETFs , however , do not have an investment minimum listed ; because it is traded like a stock , you simply buy whole shares at whatever the current share price is . So if you look at the <URL> , you 'll see the fees listed , but not any investment minimums .
You are likely making an assumption that the " Short call " part of the article you refer to is n't making : that you own the underlying stock in the first place . Rather , selling short a call has two primary cases with considerably different risk profiles . When you short-sell ( or " write " ) a call option on a stock , your position can either be : covered , which means you already own the underlying stock and will simply need to deliver it if you are assigned , or else uncovered ( or naked ) , which means you do not own the underlying stock . Writing a covered call can be a relatively conservative trade , while writing a naked call ( if your broker were to permit such ) can be extremely risky . Consider : With an uncovered position , should you be assigned you will be required to buy the underlying at the prevailing price . This is a very real cost -- certainly not an opportunity cost . Look a little further in the article you linked , to the <URL> section , and you will see the covered call mentioned there . That 's the kind of trade you describe in your example .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
Unfortunately assets placed in a safety deposit box are not covered under the Federal Deposit Insurance Program ( FDIC ) . Unless the bank is found to be negligent in the way it handled or protected your safety deposit box , neither them nor their private insurance company will reimburse you for the loss . Find out if in the duration you had your box with them , they moved , transitioned or merged with another entity . In this specific situation , you may be able to demonstrate negligence on the part of the banks as they have seemingly misplaced your box during their transition phase , and depending upon the value of the items placed in your safety deposit box , you may be entitled to some form of recovery . Some homeowner 's insurance policies may also cover the loss , but if you did n't document what you kept in the box , you have difficulty verifying proof of the value . Valuables are often lost but documents can often be reconstructed . You can get stock and bonds by paying a fee for new certificates . For wills and trusts , you can reach out to the lawyer that prepared them for a copy . You should always keep 3 copies of such documents . When you put stuff in the box , always videotape it ( photographs can be challenged ) but if the video shows it was put in there , although it can still be taken out by you after you turn off the camera , yields more weight in establishing content and potential value . Also know the value of the items and check with your homeowner policy to make sure the default amount covers it , if not then you may need to include a rider to add the difference in value and the video , receipts , appraisals and such will serve you well in the future in such unfortunate circumstances . If the contents of a safety deposit box are lost because you did n't pay the fee , then depending on the state you are in the time frame might vary ( 3 years on average ) , but none the less they are sent to the State 's unclaimed property/funds department . You can search for these online often times or by contacting the state . It would help for you to find out which scenario you are in , their fault or yours , and proceed accordingly . Good luck .
You 'd need to talk with an attorney familiar with Social Security , or an appropriately qualified SSA representative to be sure - but all signs point to the idea that unfortunately Social Security does not work the way your father was told it would . And if he does n't file to receive benefits the reality is actually much worse than " throwing away free money " ! However , this is not due to a complete misunderstanding of the system ! Social Security does work the way he thinks in some instances , just that the rules do n't apply to his exact situation ! First of all , retroactive benefits come in a few forms : <URL> - BEFORE the age of 70 only ! In this method you apply for retirement , but you tell the SSA to suspend/delay your benefits . You are entitled to full lump sum of the payments you deferred ... but at a cost of getting lower monthly benefits permanently ( and that also lowers spousal and dependent children 's benefits , too - if those could apply to your dad ) . But note that at the age of 70 , <URL> , with no lump sum . This is a kind of emergency insurance policy for those who want to try to defer retirement benefits , but who want the opportunity to cash out and get the money they would have been getting " just in case " . You can get <URL> , such as if you wait past your exact retirement age to apply for benefits . But no more : " we can not pay retroactive benefits for any month before you reached full retirement age or more than 6 months in the past " . As for after-death benefits , an estate can only get benefits that were already due to be paid , which generally means a person died and did not get their benefits for that month , so SSA can re-issue a check to the estate <URL> . But as a person can not be due a lump sum payment after age 70 ( for more than 6 months at most ) , the estate will only be able to get at most 1-6 months of payments ( and 6 months is doubtful - you 'll need to ask a lawyer if that much would even be possible ) . If your father was below 70 and wanted to file-and-suspend , the question of lump on death would be more complex and I do n't know that answer - but once you are past 70 this does n't matter any more as you are n't due a lump anymore . What about lawsuits ? Given the above , we 've established pretty clearly that if you do n't claim your benefits within 6 months after age 70 , any months of payment you would have gotten are just forfeited to the system . But if you claim the benefits and stick them in the bank , can they be taken ? Well , if a lawsuit is really a worry , then yes these accumulated funds can required to pay a debt - but this potential for loss can be protected against without forfeiting the benefits entirely ! This is not very common , but if your father does n't need the money now he may be able to deposit some of the money into a special partially-lawsuit protected format of the Roth IRA ( which has no age limits ) <URL> . If he never gets sued , that 's OK - it 's still his money ! If he passes away , the value goes to his estate and does not disappear . And he does n't forfeit any of his earned retirement benefits . It 's Not Free Money - It 's His Money Finally , I would like to share one last thing with you and your father . These benefits are n't free - he has been paying a portion of his paycheck for decades into Social Security , and now he is eligible for the maximum amount of benefits per month that he will qualify for - and if he wants to keep working he loses no benefit and <URL> . That 's up to him . But not filing for benefits now will mean that all this money he 's been paying in for decades will just be lost - they 'll basically just be a tax he 's paid out to other retirees . His estate ( which means you kids ) wo n't get any of it , either . That 'd just be a waste for everyone involved . If you have continued doubts or questions , I would n't hesitate to consult a specialist lawyer or talk with the SSA directly to make sure this is all correct . It 's his money , and he has earned his benefits for many years . I very much hope he gets to enjoy as much of them as he can !
end question
start question
Can anyone in India get a credit card ?
Anyone can apply for a credit card , however not everyone is granted a credit card . For the Bank to issue you a credit card , they need an assurance that you will be able to repay . Each bank has different norms apart from credit score , they also see your source of income [ generally its easy if you are salaried / difficult if you are not ] . Some bank also grant credit card if you hold a good amount as Fixed Deposits or PPF . So in short there are multiple eligibility criteria 's , for example : - Salary is above X amount to get a credit limit of Y . Additionally there may be a number of years of service . - Certain amount of Fixed Deposits or PPF 's or other investments . - Tax Returns show a good amount of income and tax paid . The easiest way to get a basic card is to apply to the Bank where you have a savings account .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
Some things that most financial authors acknowledge is that FICO continually upgrades its algorithm for determining your credit score , they are really good at it , and they are continuing to get better . The article mentioned by Chuck says that it was last updated in 4/2013 . Most assuredly FICO has tweaked its algorithm a few times since the article was last updated . From observation it seems that when an author informs the public of a method to game their FICO score , the engineers take steps to prevent inaccurate scores . An example of this is to keep your accounts open after they are paid off . For myself , I found that behavior is not a necessary part of achieving or maintaining a high credit score . The bottom line is that short term fluctuations should not concern you . By paying your bills you will get a good credit score . A credit score does not in and of itself indicate financial success , rather a balance sheet does . My advice would be to do a budget ( seems like you have that done well ) , pay your bills ( ditto ) , and focus on how you can get more into investments ( improve here ) . The credit score will take care of itself .
It might work , assuming you can instantly qualify for the credit card . I 'd bet that is n't likely to happen if you have never had a credit card before though . ( I extrapolate that to assume you do n't have much of a credit report . I could be wrong . ) However , it is a gift card , not cash . You would at best get $ 30 worth of stuff and shipping from Amazon . Your credit would take a hit from the credit inquiry . Then get a small bump from the new credit limit increase and lower utilization . Then you would cancel it and your limit goes down because your utilization goes up , thereby making your credit score go lower . ( This assume you utilize credit in some other fashion at all ) Net effect ? Your score goes down because you applied for the card . This is also highly dependent on the time frame in which this all happens . Credit reports wo n't show any activity for a couple of months . So the up and down could cancel each other out if you do it too fast . My advice , do n't apply for credit you do n't want or need . Certainly do n't apply for credit just to get a reward or discount . The rewards and discounts are only smart if you were already making the purchase . To expand on the question you did n't ask , it is a pretty solid decision to get a credit card , especially if you do n't need one . You will ( sadly ) be judged on your credit for more things that just buying stuff . ( Insurance , jobs , rental agreements , etc ) Credit takes time to build , so getting started before you need it is important . If you do n't need it , you can develop good habits around credit . ( Always pay it off , never carry a balance , never charge more than you can afford to pay that day ) I suggest you join a credit union and get a credit card from there . They will have programs and better deals . Once you have the card from your credit union , and you if you find credit cards fit your lifestyle , AND if you find you can manage credit responsibly , then feel free to find a rewards card you like ( such as Amazon ) and apply for it .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
Some aspect is legal some in grey area . Please maintain proper documentation . Generally for amounts in question , there is less scrutiny from Income tax . Buying on behalf of your friends ... First there is a limit of 250,000 USD , so fine on this point . Second is only licensed dealers can participate in FX . In your case , it can appear that you are acting as dealer . On getting money back , this looks like gift and if it 's more than 50,000 in a year it is taxable . Of course if you establish that it was convenience then no issues . So you need good amount of documentation , plus if you are getting paid after few months , tax can treat this as personal loan and arrive at deemed interest . Edits : There is no guideline as to what the income tax will ask you , if there is a scrutiny . One would need to have paper work , a letter from friend requesting you to purchase things . You would have to keep a record of items ordered and match it with credit card statement . Proof that the goods were delivered to his address . Proof of equivalent credit entry from your friend into your bank statement . Reason why your friend could not do this himself . i.e. what is stopping him from getting a international debit/credit card ? So if you think you can convince that its convenience , yes , else taxes .
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
Yes , it is a very good idea to start your credit history early . It sounds like you have a good understanding of the appropriate use of credit , as a substitute for cash rather than a supplement to income . As long as you keep your expenses under control and pay off your card each month , I see no problems with the idea . Try to find a card with no annual fees , a low interest rate if possible ( which will be difficult at your age ) , and with some form of rewards such as cash back . Look for a reputable issuing bank , and keep the account open even after you get a new card down the road . Your credit score is positively correlated with having an account open for a long time , having a good credit usage to credit limit ratio , and having accounts in good standing and paid on time .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
AutoPay vs. paying manually It does n't make a difference if the bill is paid by auto pay or you go in and manually make a payment . If you are concerned about checking the website a day late , use auto pay . If you want to make sure you check for unknown charges pay manually . But it has no impact on the credit score . Paying off balance every few days ( manually ) vs. paying off balance once a month after statement arrives ( manually ) . The only day that matters ( except paying late ) is the day your balance is reported , which generally is a day or two after the statement date . If you wait for it to arrive by mail you are probably paying it down after they have reported it . If you pay it right after the statement date you might get it to zero . Paying off ONLY statement balance ( manually ) vs. paying off all purchases including those that have n't hit a statement yet ( manually ) This is overkill . You are trying to make sure you always have a zero balance . Even in a month where you achieve perfect utilization the benefit will go away the next month . If one month you you are out of the perfect zone the few points you drop will bounce back the next month . There utilization rate is a snapshot , not an average or a trend . If you were applying for a mortgage , or a car loan in the next month or two ; then making sure your utilization rate gives you an above average boost makes sense . But if you are n't applying for credit you are just wasting energy . Of course if you have a balance you are paying down , then paying sooner than the due date can save you money .
First , forget about your credit rating . That will come back once you 're out of default and back on your feet . Keep in mind that the write-off is considered taxable income , so you 'll be owing the IRS and your State ( if its an income tax state ) money on that . I do n't think that you can ignore the second question . If you 're going to end up robbing Peter to pay Paul , I do n't see the point of trading an unsecured , dischargeable debt for another debt and a non-dischargeable IRS obligation . If you ca n't make payments on $ 17k , you ca n't make payments on $ 12k either . Note that when the IRS does n't get paid , they seize assets from your accounts and garnish your wages , and charge hefty fees for the privilege . If I were in your situation and had the ability to make payments , I would try to get written agreements from the unsecured creditors to do the following : Take you out of default status and get rid of penalty interest . ( ie . start paying 15 % instead of the 30 % or more that you are paying now ) Commit to making a specific payment . Freeze your credit limit to prevent the accrual of new fees . You have a very short window to make this deal with BoA . If they are ready to cut you a 30 % deal , the next step will be selling it to collections . If I were unable to get those types of settlements or make the payments , I 'd immediately start looking into bankruptcy and getting on with my life . A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stop the accrual of interest and penalties , stop the collection calls and leave you with $ 0 debt in 36 months . If you go this route , try to keep one credit line that you 've had for a few years ( like a store credit card ) open ... this will make things easier later on .
Yes , you can usually deposit/pay money into a credit card account in advance . They 'll use it to pay any open debt ; if there 's money left over they 'll carry it as a credit towards future changes . ( " Usually " added in response to comments that some folks have been unable to do this -- though whether that was really policy or just limitation if web interface is unclear . Could be tested by simply sending them an overpayment as your next check and seeing whether they carry it as a credit or return the excess . )
Could the individual [ directly ] use the credit cards for the down-payment ? No , not directly . Indirectly , either via Cash Advance or " Balance Transfer " to a bank account with a promotional rate could work , however you may have to show the money sitting in a bank account and ready to go before the loan will be approved , which means the money you took out on the credit cards will show up when they pull your credit ( unless you somehow timed it perfectly , and even if you did that you 'd be breaking the law by lying on the disclosure statement about your current debts . ) If he could , are there any negative consequences from doing so ( other than probable high monthly payments on the cards ) ? Definitely . Let 's assume we 're talking about the indirect method of cash advance or balance transfer , since that is actually possible . There are 3 things to compare : You have saved up enough money for a ( hopefully hefty ) down payment without taking out any additional loans . This is obviously ideal and should always be the goal . You do not have enough money for a down payment and simply do n't buy a house right now . You do not have enough money for a down payment , so you take out other loans so that you can buy a house right now . The main negative consequence of doing this is simply that you ca n't afford the house right now , but for some reason you are buying it anyway . I 'm not one to judge ; there are contrived reasons where this could be justified ( your trust fund comes due soon , your big inheritance is still locked up in probate , your guaranteed bonus is coming soon , etc ) , but in general , if you think you can pay off the CC debt in the near future , then you 're most likely better off waiting until you have the money cash in hand . Final thought : Most of the time the rate you pay on a non-mortgage loan will be higher than that of the mortgage , and furthermore mortgage interest is oftentimes tax deductible , so it would rarely ever make sense to shift would-be mortgage debt into another type of loan , down payment or otherwise .
She can apply for her own card as well . So long as her credit is ok and she can be approved on her own score , it should n't be an issue . Keep in mind , most airline cards have an annual fee , $ 80 or so , which is why we decided to get the card in my name and I could always get tickets in any family member name . A card in her name will get you the new bonus ( maybe 20,000 miles ? ) but after a year , the fee kicks in .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
There is a benefit to using it , but you only need to make 1-2 charges a year per card to get the benefit . That is enough to keep the account considered active and help your credit history length . In your situation I 'd say buy a lunch/dinner on each card a few times a year and stop using them until you have all your cards down to the point where you can pay them all off each month .
They claim they can help you build your credit score Able to get one will n't build your credit score but the usage will . The usage of a debit card / credit card / bank card helps building up a profile of yours with the tracking of how you use credit . Considering that citizens who have had a credit record , loose all of it when they are out of UK after a certain period ( not exactly sure how long ) , that is why Britishers who have been living abroad for quite long run into troubles with credit institutions because of non existent records . Did you read this part of their website where they mention how the credit record is built ? Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd ( APS ) lends you a limited fixed amount which goes towards paying for all or part of a year 's use of the account , interest-free . The loan is paid to Advanced Payment Solutions Financial Limited ( AFL ) , so no money changes hands and it 's never available to spend Just repay the loan with 12 small monthly installments and we 'll pass on your payment history to the credit reference agencies Make all your monthly payments on time and you 'll have shown that you can manage credit responsibly Just seems like a way to play around the rules , but not illegal . So primarily they push your score up by showing you have used their credit responsibly . And if your brother works he can get a no frills account from one of the high street banks , which is a more better option .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
end question
start question
Should I cash out or rollover 401 ( k ) securities ?
Some more considerations : ( 1 ) Tax rates ( both ordinary and capital gains ) are likely to be different when you retire . ( 2 ) Your marginal tax rate may be different when you retire depending on how much income you have at the time . In retirement your income may be structured completely differently than when you are working . For example , you may also have a Roth IRA/401K to pull from .
A good general rule is to save 15 % of your income for retirement . As for where you put it : Put as much as it takes to maximize your employer match into your 401 ( k ) , but no more . The employer match is free money , and you ca n't beat free money If you still have n't put in 15 % , put the rest into a Roth IRA . By historical standards , taxes are pretty low today . They are almost certainly going to be higher in retirement , especially since you likely wo n't have the deductions in retirement that you may have now ( kids , mortgage , etc ) . If you 've maxed our the allowed contribution for your Roth and still have n't saved 15 % , put the rest in a traditional IRA .
Ideally you would negotiate a car price without ever mentioning : your intentions around financing whether or not you work for the car company whether you 've recently graduated any trade-in you might be bringing or lease you need to get out of And other factors that affect the price . You and the dealer would then negotiate a true price for the car , followed by the application of rebates , followed by negotiating for the loan if there is to be one . In practice this rarely happens . The sales rep asks point blank what rebates you qualify for ( by asking get-to-know-you questions like where you work or if you served in the armed forces - you may not realize that these are do-you-qualify-for-a-rebate questions ) before you 've even chosen a model . They take that into account right from the beginning , along with whether they 'll make a profit lending you money , or have to spend something to subsidize your zero percent loan . However unlike your veteran 's status , your loan intentions are changeable . So when you get to the end you can ask if the price could be improved by paying cash . Or you could try putting the negotiated price on a credit card , and when they do n't like that , ask for a further discount to stop you from using the credit card and paying cash .
Nope , do n't do it . Basic math shows this ... as you pay down your HELOC , you will pay less and less interest , eventually you will have it paid off . Look at what your RRSP will be worth even using a low rate of return over the next 20 or 30 years . It will likely show that it would really cost you a LOT more if you cashed in .
You did n't mention how much is the interest rate of your debts . It is a very simple rule . % profit > % loss If you think you can make more money by investing ( the best way you can ) in spite of having debts then go ahead and invest . % profit less than % loss Else , if you donno what you 're doing and ca n't make sure you earn more than what you 're paying off for interest then may be you should focus on clearing up the debts first . You can read more about similar topic discussion <URL> Now , that you 've presented the interest rate of your loans i.e. 11 % which is your average , then I suggest you to clear up the high interest rate loans first i.e. which are above 11 % because it is very difficult to make an investment and get returns more than 11 % of what you invest . What ever be it , now that you wo n't be having big events in the coming 5 years , I suggest you to clear up all your loans and stay debt free i.e. tr to become stable and tension free . You know , because you ca n't run away anywhere with all those loans up on your shoulders , you HAVE to clear them today or tomorrow . So , now that you 're free ( in the next 5 yrs ) and burden less , so why not clear them up today ?
There is no absolute answer to this as it depends on your particular situation , but some tips : Invest as much as you can for retirement . In your first job you may be on the low end of the pay scale , but you have something much more valuable ... Time . Do n't underestimate how much impact compounding can do to your retirement savings by putting the bulk of it in a decade sooner . As to investing versus saving , you need to do some of both : First accumulate 3-6 months of living expenses in a savings account and do n't touch it unless you have a bona-fide emergency ( like losing your job or major medical expenses ) Next , Contribute at least as much to your 401k as your company will match , any less and you are turning away free money . Next , Pay down debt as quickly as possible on credit cards and depreciating assets ( like cars ) . Max out the 401k and/or other tax sheltered retirement accounts as much as possible . You may be at the low end of the pay scale now , but believe it or not you probably have more disposable income than you ever will later when kids/family get into the picture . Also you have TIME on your side and money invested over time is a very powerful tool to get rich . Do not wait until you " make enough " to save for retirement . Save whatever you can now . Be careful about stockpiling too much in bank accounts . Inflation will eat that money up over time to the tune of 3-4 % / year . You are young and have a longer investment horizon for retirement , take advantage of that and accept a little more risk while you can .
It depends on what your plans for the future are . . Taking out a loan is not a bad thing if it is at a good rate and under good terms and you are sure you can handle the payments . If you buy the car with cash you may be giving up the opportunity to later get a great rate on that $ 8k . However , you are probably not utilizing that $ 20k to make as much interest as you 'd then be paying if you did take the $ 8k on loan . Since you say " house fund " I assume you are saving to make a down payment on a new house . If you plan to buy that house within the next 6 months the hard pulls on your credit report from applying for the car loan will probably ding your credit score for the next 6 months which might cost you on your mortgage rate . However , if you do n't plan to buy for a few more years and if you 've never had a car payment before then the auto loan would actually be adding diversity to your credit history and in the long run would help your score . Another factor to consider is the loan-to-value ratio you are shooting for . LTV affects the interest rate , requirements for private mortgage insurance , etc. . Mortgage rates are at an all-time low and lower than auto-rates , so depending on the terms of the house purchase that $ 8k might be better spent on the car than the house . In short , if you want to buy the house soon ( rates are loooow , market is a buyer 's market ) , and you need that $ 8k to get a better mortgage rate or prevent you from being required to buy PMI you should probably put it toward the house . Otherwise you should probably put it toward the car . Last piece of advice . If you absolutely must buy a house and a car in the same short time-frame , do them both on the same day so that your credit score is not dinged before applying for one or the other . With mortgages this may be difficult considering the longer closing procedures , but try to time it so that your credit is getting checked by the mortgage broker and the auto lender on the same day .
Contributions to 401k plans have to come from the wages that the employer is paying you , and can not be made from external funds . Many plans will allow for a large percentage to be withheld from a single paycheck or from the remaining paychecks for the current year , and for that time , you can live off the surplus of cash from the sale .
If you can not get a satisfactory answer from the company , you can contact your local office of the <URL> . They can add pressure or give advice about how to overcome any remaining hurdles if the reason for delay is legitimate . I should probably also note that these accounts have significant reporting requirements , so it is possible that the delay is indeed a legitimate one .
Some do exist that allow people under age 21 to enroll The IRS a few years ago <URL> here is what they found : Age and Service Eligibility Requirements to Make Elective Deferral Contributions A section 401 ( k ) plan may require that an employee meet specified age and/or service requirements to be eligible to participate in the cash or deferred arrangement . Code section 401 ( k ) ( 2 ) ( D ) provides that such requirements may not exceed age 21 and one year of service . Figure 2 shows the percentage of section 401 ( k ) plans that utilize various age requirements for eligibility to make elective deferral and other employee contributions .
They are a business . You 're not a corporation . They paid you more than $ 600 during the year , so they 're supposed to send 1099 to you and the IRS about it . They need your taxpayer certification ( W9 ) for that . They were supposed to ask for it before they paid you , but yes - they 're supposed to ask for it .
The advantages of the TFSA are liquidity - you can take money out and put it back in quite simply and you even get your room back if you take it out a place to tax shelter interest income when you 've used all your RRSP room or want to save RRSP room for a time when your tax rate is higher than it is now you do n't pay tax when you withdraw and you 're never forced to withdraw/pay tax as you are with an RRSP This makes them great for 50-somethings who did n't do any saving yet , for whom clawbacks when they drawdown RRSPs will have a big impact on taxes and government-related income . It also makes them great for " I will save up for that car / my downpayment / the kids skating fees next year " when the money would come out of an RRSP at the same or even a higher tax rate and would not have time to compound for long . This may apply to you . And finally it makes them great for highly paid people who just do n't know what the heck to do with all the money that is piling up and have no intention of ever using any of it while they 're working , but have filled up their RRSPs . My 20-somethings are using them because they pay essentially no taxes now , so are waiting to use their RRSP room later . If you have money that you are saving for something other than retirement , put it in a TFSA . If you 've maxed the RRSP and still have money left over , put it in an TFSA . If you have children , consider an RESP first , because of the bonus money . But do n't think TFSA first unless it 's for timelimited saving like towards a car or renovation .
I 'm trying to think if there are any advantages to rolling over a 401k into a new company 's 401k , or leaving it in the old company 's 401k account ... Advantages of 401k ( either the old one or the new one ) : ( In the company where you 're currently employed ) you can take a loan from your 401k . Depending on the plan choices you may have funds with much lower expense ratios in 401k than are available to retail investors ( IRA ) . There are no <URL> from 401k . 401k balance does n't affect the IRA - > ROTH conversion ( <URL> ) . You can start withdrawals from 401k at the age of 55 , IRA - at the age of 60 . Disadvantages , as you mentioned , are fees and plan choices ' limitations . The decision is yours , but it 's not straight-forward . You 'll need to decide which trade-offs to make .
If you do n't know what one is , you do n't have any . It 's the Series X ( Series 6 , Series 7 , etc ) securities licenses . These licenses are required to sell specific types of securities . They typically require some level of specific education before you can take the exam and require continued education to maintain your license . Additionally many require you to be sponsored or affiliated with a FINRA registered financial institution like a bank or insurance company . Here 's a link to the applicable FINRA website : <URL>
Yes , transferring in to an ISA does not count as subscribing to it , and it is subscriptions that are limited to one per year . See eg <URL> - I wo n't paste an excerpt as it really needs the context of all the answers on the page , but in summary it supports my " Yes you can " above . By the way , if you want a definitive answer from HMRC you can ring their <URL> : ISA Helpline For general enquiries about tax rules on ISAs and more information on Junior ISAs Individual Savings Account Helpline is part of the Savings Helpline Opening hours 8.00 am to 8.00 pm , Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.00 pm Saturday 0845 604 1701
I would create a " Rollover IRA " . These IRAs are designed to take funds from a 401k and allow you to invest them without incurring a cash out penalty nor a tax due . You will have more choices than if you leave it at your old 401k . If you cash out the 401k , you 'll have much less to invest ( $ 1500 - penalty - taxes ) vs. doing a rollover 401k where you 'll still have $ 1500 to invest . Then , once the money is inside the new Rollover IRA you can invest in whatever you please . If you want to invest in Vanguard funds , I recommend opening the Rollover IRA at Vanguard . Here is Vanguard 's information page about rollovers from 401ks : <URL> When you next change jobs and have another 401k with funds in it , you can roll it into the same Rollover IRA .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
One way to analyze the opportunity cost of using a 401K loan would be to calculate your net worth after using a 401K loan . If your net worth increases then the 401K loan would be advisable . Note that the calculations provided below do not take into account tax considerations . A net worth calculation is where you add all your assets and then subtract all your liabilities . The resulting number is your net worth . First , calculate the net worth of not taking the loan and simply paying the credit card interest . This means you only pay the interest on the credit card . In addition to the parameters identified in your question , two additional parameters will need to be considered : Cash and the market rate of return on the 401K . Scenario 1 ( only pay credit card interest ) : After 12 months all you have paid is the interest on the credit card . The 401K balance is untouched so it will hopefully grow . The balance on the credit card remains at the end of 12 months . Scenario 2 ( use 401K loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from your 401K to pay the credit card balance . You will have to pay $ 5,000 plus the 401K interest rate back into your 401K account . Use the following equation to determine when Scenario 2 increases your net worth more than scenario 1 : Thus , if your credit card interest rate is greater than the rate you can earn on your 401K then use the 401K loan to pay off the credit card balance . Another scenario that should be considered : borrow money from somewhere else to pay off the credit card balance . Scenario 3 ( external loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from somewhere besides your 401K to pay off the credit card balance . The following is used to determine if you should use an external loan over the 401K loan : This means you should use an external loan if you can obtain an interest rate less than the rate of return you can earn on your 401K . The same methodology can be used to compare Scenario 3 to Scenario 1 .
Sorry , it appears not , according to <URL> : ... and the election to make Roth 401 ( k ) contributions ( these are after-tax contributions ) is irrevocable . <URL> says the same thing . PS , do n't complain too loudly , given the reason for the problem . :)
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
end question
start question
Does the FATCA laws also relates to individuals incomes ?
From your question it seems that you 're not entirely sure what these laws are . Let me clear this out for you and everyone else : What is FATCA Foreign Accounts Tax Compliance Act . There are many resources about this law , but I suggest starting with these : <URL> . <URL> . In short , this act includes various provisions that add additional reporting requirements for Americans with assets abroad , and about Americans with accounts abroad . Reporting Requirements for Individuals Individual Americans ( citizens and tax residents ) were already required to file a yearly report about their foreign accounts to the Department of Treasury . This is called " Foreign Bank Accounts Report " ( FBAR ) , and is filed using <URL> . You 're required to file this form for every year during which your total ( aggregate ) worth of all of your foreign accounts exceeded $ 10000 on at least one day . This includes , by the way , any account you might have - including savings , checking , investment , pensions of any kind ( including " managerial insurance " which is essentially a pension savings account ) , your educational funds , etc etc. . So What 's New ? FATCA adds additional reporting requirements for individuals . In addition to FBAR , you 're now required to report your foreign accounts <URL> as part of your tax return on <URL> . The threshold requirements for form 8938 are different from FBAR , so you may be required to file FBAR - but not required to file form 8938 . For Americans living abroad the thresholds are much higher than for Americans living in the US . Also , the reports include <URL> . But in general - there 's double reporting to different agencies of the Department of Treasury . FBAR goes to the FinCEN , and form 8938 goes to the IRS - but both include roughly the same things . This applies for all US citizens/tax residents , and the source of your income does n't matter for this requirement . Reporting Requirements for Banks The more important portion of FATCA is the imposition of reporting requirement about Americans on foreign financial institutions . Foreign banks are now required to report about any American with an account ( s ) worth $ 50000 or more , and if they do n't - they face severe limitations on their activity in the US ( essentially flat 30 % tax on their US transactions ) . This requires the banks to break many local laws and as such is a problematic requirement . Many foreign banks chose to close their doors for American customers instead . This is in light of massive tax evasion of the American rich through the European ( and other ) bank accounts using the local secrecy laws to shield their income from the IRS eyes . See stories about UBS and other Swiss banks getting in trouble with the American government for that . The result is that the American citizens ( expats ) are now having troubles finding a bank to open an account at in many Countries ( including Israel - Bank Hapoalim , for example , closed/limited accounts of many Israelis who were stupid enough to tell the clerk that they 're American citizens/green card holders ) .
The value of the fund and the change in that value is going to be related mostly to the contents of the fund . All the two versions are doing is basically allowing you to see a price both after and before exchange rates are taken into account . If it 's a US Index fund , investing in US stocks , then only a Canadian investor is likely to benefit or suffer from currency exchange rate changes . All a US investor would be doing is paying exchange rate fee 's to their bank to change your money into CN$ Or the reverse if you live in Canada and buy the US version For the Canadian investor this is effectively a ' international ' fund of sorts , and currency risk is a part of that . As you will note that the fund has currently had a stronger return due to a weak Loonie , and that information is presented in BOTH versions of the fund , you could expect that for you , if the Loonie gets stronger , the performance ( for you ) of that fund to go down , no matter which version you invest in . A Canadian investor who expects the Loonie to get stronger would be want to be investing in international instruments only to the extent they expected the return to outpace the changes in currency values , relative to what they could get returnwise in a domestic investment .
The fact that you got your check does n't mean you 're not going to be audited . It just means that your return was properly filed and accepted . Audit notices usually start to appear at about half a year after returns are filed , and come as late as 3 years after . In fact , your tax return can be audited many years after you filed it , if the information on it affects a future year tax liability ( for example - depreciation deduction , passive activity , NOL , capital losses , foreign tax credits , and many other things that can stretch into the future ) .
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
" <URL> " must be returned . If the estate is bankrupt , as near as I can tell , the SSA is <URL> . ( This applies to payment apart from that covered above . ) If you need advice on something other than retirement insurance , a comprehensive list of applicable statutes and rulings is <URL> .
The difference between an American and European option is that the American option can be exercised at any time , whereas the European option can be liquidated only on the settlement date . The American option is " continuous time " instrument , while the European option is a " point in time " instrument . Black Scholes applies to the latter , European , option . Under " certain " ( but by no means all ) circumstances , the two are close enough to be regarded as substitutes . One of their disciples , Robert Merton , " tweaked " it to describe American options . There are debates about this , and other tweaks , years later .
When over the long term housing costs in a area rise faster than wages rise , the demographic of who lives in the area changes . The size and income parameters change . A region that was full of young singles is now populated with couples with adult children , that means that the businesses and amenities have to change . At a national level it is n't sustainable unless other items change . The portion of monthly income that can be safely allocated to housing would have to change . One adjustment could be the the lengthening of home loan periods , thus dropping the monthly payment . This has been seen with car loans , over the last few decades the length of loans has increased . In interesting related event could be the change in deduction of mortgage interest and property tax . If this was to change abruptly , there could be an abrupt change the estimated value of housing , because the calculus of affordability would change .
Here is an IRS <URL> covering records retention The publication covers many areas , including proof of income , bank statements , old tax returns . There is a table that talks about how long to keep the records . In general it is 3 to 6 years . But for property it is 3 to 6 years after you dispose of the property .
I 'd interpret it as " Net Worth " reached 1M where " net worth " = assets - liabilities .
It means that the company earned 15 cents per share in the most recently reported quarter . Share price may or not be affected , depending on how buyers and sellers value the company . Just because profits " jumped , " does not mean the shares will follow suit . An increase in profits may have already been priced into the stock , or the market expected the increase in profit to be even higher . As the shareholder , you do n't actually get any of these profits into your hands , unless the company pays out a portion of these profits as a dividend .
I 'm not an expert on reverse mortgages but from my understanding the closing costs are much higher than traditional mortgages and the LTV is generally pretty low . So the bank makes money by not loaning out all that much compared to the value of the property and by charging high fees on the front end .
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
Yes , they are deductible . The treatment is a little weird because of the self-employed nature . Profit Sharing contributions made to employees are deductible at the Employer level and are reported on line 19 of the Schedule C. However , contributions made by the employer on behalf of the self-employed individual are reported on the individual 's 1040 ( line 28 ) , which reduces the individual 's adjusted gross income . Disclosure : I am not a CPA . Consult your CPA or Tax Attorney . Sources : <URL> - Page 8
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
If you are looking at domestic transfers , all Banks hold accounts with the Central Bank [ Reserve Bank ] , in US the Central Bank is called Federal Reserve . The money from account of Bank of America held with Fed is debited and the account of Citi held with Fed is credited .
You can view the donations as helping to pay for your time spent on development , so I do n't think there 's any moral or legal issue with asking for them . However you will need to pay tax on them as income , which may involve registering with HMRC as self-employed . They also wo n't be tax-deductible for the donors or eligible for gift aid , as you are n't a charity .
I 'm afraid it 's not very easy . US tax code is very complex and has layers of conditions , exceptions , limitations , tweaks and twists , which may be very complex to navigate and easy to mess up . However , what you probably could do is take some tax preparation software - such as TurboTax , you can use it for free until you actually file and even file Federal for free , if I remember correctly . So , this software would have comprehensive itemized list of deductions , which you may browse freely or let it guide you through it . Each item usually is accompanies by explanations , what that one does , which forms you need to accompany it , what are conditions on it , etc. . Of course , it 's not very " simplified " , but it can be a start . You also could use the program to guide you and then decide if you want to pay to file or prepare your own return guided by the advice the program gives you .
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
end question
start question
How to calculate how far a shorted stock 's price can rise before broker issues a margin call ?
Most brokers have a margin maintenance requirement of 30 % . In your example , it would depend on how much money you 're borrowing from your broker on margin . Consider this : You have $ 250 , and short AAPL at $ 500 on margin . This would be a common scenario ( federal law requires investors to have at least 50 % of their margin equity when opening a transaction ) . If your broker had a requirement of 30 % , they would require that for your $ 500 position , you have at least equity . Since you are currently above that number at $ 250 , you will not be hit with a margin call . Say the price of AAPL doubles , and now your position is worth $ 1000 . , which is $ 50 above your initial equity . Your broker will now consider you eligible for a margin call . Most will not execute the call right away , you will often have some time to either sell/cover stock or add funds to your account . But not all brokers will warn you if you are breaking margin requirements , and sometimes margin calls can take you by surprise if you are not paying attention . Also , many will charge interest on extra margin borrowed .
You paid $ 60000 for your shares . You now have 100 shares , so your price per share is $ 600 , i.e. , 5 times the price you paid . Another question here is why a 1:5 reverse split only increased the price to $ 40 ; 5 times the $ 15 pre-split value is $ 75 .
I found a calculator at <URL> that takes into account the 2010 deal to defer part of the tax into 2011 and 2012
Phil 's answer is correct . Just to add to his response : Distributions are not taxable events -- you already paid your taxes , so you can take out $ 50k or $ 52k and the IRS is not concerned . You can simply write yourself a check for any amount you choose ! To answer your specific question : to match your K1 losses and profit exactly , you could take out $ 50k . But that might leave the business strapped for cash . One way to decide how much to take out is to use your balance sheet . Look at your retained earnings ( or just look at the business bank account balance ) , subtract however much cash you think you need to keep on hand for operations , and write yourself a check for the rest .
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
<URL> will work as DumbCoder states , but did n't contain LEHMQ ( Lehman Brother 's holding company ) . You can use Yahoo for companies that have declared bankruptcy , such as Lehman Brothers : <URL> but you have to know the symbol of the holding company .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone 's behalf , that someone has to submit <URL> . Note that since you 're not a professional , this form must be paper-filed ( CRTP , EA , CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line ) . Once the form is accepted by the FTB , you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend . Pay attention : you 're going to represent the partnership , not the individual .
Neither . Market orders are executed immediately ( assuming there 's a sell/buy pair of orders that can be matched ) , and the matching between the buyer and the seller is done by the exchange , not the broker . The sell price for the seller is the buy price for the buyer , always ( for stocks ) .
For a company listed on NASDAQ , the numbers are published <URL> . The most recent settlement date was 4/30/2013 , and you can see that it lists 27.5 million shares as held short . NASDAQ gets these numbers from FINRA member firms , which are required to submit them to the exchange <URL> : Each FINRA member firm is required to report its " total " short interest positions in all customer and proprietary accounts in NASDAQ-listed securities twice a month . These reports are used to calculate short interest in NASDAQ stocks . FINRA member firms are required to report their short positions as of settlement on ( 1 ) the 15th of each month , or the preceding business day if the 15th is not a business day , and ( 2 ) as of settlement on the last business day of the month . * The reports must be filed by the second business day after the reporting settlement date . FINRA compiles the short interest data and provides it for publication on the 8th business day after the reporting settlement date .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
This is often the case where traders are closing out short positions they do n't want to hold overnight , for a variety of reasons that matter to them . Most frequently , this is from day traders or high-frequency traders settling their accounts before the markets close .
Just so I 'm clear - the end result is a long call , and you think the stock is going up . There is nothing wrong with that fundamentally . Be aware though : That 's a <URL> trade . This means if your stock does n't increase in price during the remaining time to expiration of your call option , the option will lose some of its value every day . It may still lose some of its value every day , depending on how much the stock price increases . The value of the call option just goes down and down as it approaches maturity , even if the stock price stays about the same . Being long a call ( or a put ) is a tough way to make money in the options market . I would suggest using an out-of-the-money butterfly spread . The potential returns are a bit less . However , this is a cheap positive theta trade so you avoid time decay on the value of the option .
You could purchase Home Equity Insurance . Here is a paper by Robert Shiller and Allan Weiss about how it would work : <URL> . Sadly this type of protection is hard to find .
You want to charge so that : now with a little algebra . Rounded up to $ 153.69
Simplest way to answer this is that on margin , one is using borrowed assets and thus there are strings that come with doing that . Thus , if the amount of equity left gets too low , the broker has a legal obligation to close the position which can be selling purchased shares or buying back borrowed shares depending on if this is a long or short position respectively . <URL> has an example that they walk through as the call is where you are asked to either put in more money to the account or the position may be closed because the broker wants their money back . What is Maintenance Margin ? A maintenance margin is the required amount of securities an investor must hold in his account if he either purchases shares on margin , or if he sells shares short . If an investor 's margin balance falls below the set maintenance margin , the investor would then need to contribute additional funds to the account or liquidate stocks in the account to bring the account back to the initial margin requirement . This request is known as a margin call . As discussed previously , the Federal Reserve Board sets the initial margin requirement ( currently at 50 % ) . The Federal Reserve Board also sets the maintenance margin . The maintenance margin , the amount of equity an investor needs to hold in his account if he buys stock on margin or sells shares short , is 25 % . Keep in mind , however , that this 25 % level is the minimum level set , brokerage firms can increase , but not decrease this level as they desire . Example : Determining when a margin call would occur . Assume that an investor had purchased 500 shares of Newco 's stock . The shares were trading at $ 50 when the transaction was executed . The initial margin requirement on the account was 70 % and the maintenance margin is 30 % . Assume no transaction costs . Determine the price at which the investor will receive a margin call . Answer : Calculate the price as follows : $ 50 ( 1 - 0.70 ) = $ 21.43 1 - 0.30 A margin call would be received when the price of Newco 's stock fell below $ 21.43 per share . At that time , the investor would either need to deposit additional funds or liquidate shares to satisfy the initial margin requirement . Most people do n't want " Margin Calls " but stocks may move in unexpected ways and this is where there are mechanisms to limit losses , especially for the brokerage firm that wants to make as much money as possible . Cancel what trade ? No , the broker will close the position if the requirement is n't kept . Basically think of this as a way for the broker to get their money back if necessary while following federal rules . This would be selling in a long position or buying in a short sale situation . <URL> walks through an example where an e-mail would be sent and if the requirement is n't met then the position gets exited as per the law .
The VDE fund is an energy fund so this is a function of recent price changes in oil ( and gas , coal , &amp; c ) . <URL> Lets say last year when oil was $ 100 per barrel a bunch of companies saw a good return and put $ 100 million into a bunch of leases , boreholes , pumps , &amp; c to return $ 10 million per year , and the market says yeah , they 're all together worth 100M . Now oil is less , maybe $ 40 per the link . These exploration companies do n't have a lot of labor or variable costs ; they are operationally profitable , may have " use it or lose it " leases or minimum pumping requirements for contract or engineering reasons . Lets say the cash flow is 7M so the market values them at 70M . They still have about 100M book value so here we are at .7 and I believe the scenario in the question . Nobody would invest in new capacity at this oil price . The well equipment could be repurposed but not the borehole or lease , so the best use is to continue pumping and value it on cash flow . If an individual well runs negative long enough and goes bust , either a different pumper will pay the minimum price that gives profitable cash flow , or that borehole that cost millions to dig is shut off and rendered valueless . The CNBC article says some explorers are playing games with debt to maintain yield , so there is that too . In the ETF , your bet is that the market is wrong and oil will go up , increasing future cash flows ( or you like the current yield , taking on the risk that some of these oil explorers could go bust ) .
A few days ago they launched Fannie Mae Guaranteed Multifamily Structures ( <URL> ) but who knows ? It 's a penny stock now . Google Finance is pretty good at marking news right on the chart for a particular stock . That 's how I tracked that piece of news down . Ca n't say that it precipitated a lot of people buying the stock , but Google Finance is n't a bad place to start looking .
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
Most brokers have a margin maintenance requirement of 30 % . In your example , it would depend on how much money you 're borrowing from your broker on margin . Consider this : You have $ 250 , and short AAPL at $ 500 on margin . This would be a common scenario ( federal law requires investors to have at least 50 % of their margin equity when opening a transaction ) . If your broker had a requirement of 30 % , they would require that for your $ 500 position , you have at least equity . Since you are currently above that number at $ 250 , you will not be hit with a margin call . Say the price of AAPL doubles , and now your position is worth $ 1000 . , which is $ 50 above your initial equity . Your broker will now consider you eligible for a margin call . Most will not execute the call right away , you will often have some time to either sell/cover stock or add funds to your account . But not all brokers will warn you if you are breaking margin requirements , and sometimes margin calls can take you by surprise if you are not paying attention . Also , many will charge interest on extra margin borrowed .
" The SEC considers a day trade to be any trade that is opened and closed within the same trading day , and considers a day trader to be any trader that completes 4 or more day trades within 5 business days . " If so they would label you day trader and in the US you are required to have at least $ 25K in your account . Maybe that 's why they require you to add more money to your account ? See more at <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
Can banks deny that you 've paid your loan ?
Maybe there 's more to this story , because as written , your sister seems , well , a little irrational . Is it possible that the bank will try to cheat you and demand that you pay a loan again that you 've already paid off ? Or maybe not deliberately cheat you , but make a mistake and lose track of the fact that you paid ? Sure , it 's POSSIBLE . But if you 're going to agonize about that , what about all the other possible ways that someone could cheat you ? What if you go to a store , hand over your cash for the purchase , and then the clerk insists that you never gave him any cash ? What if you buy a car and it turns out to be stolen ? What if you buy insurance and when you have a claim the insurance company refuses to pay ? What if someone you 've never met or even heard of before suddenly claims that you are the father of her baby and demands child support ? Etc etc. . Realistically , banks are fanatical about record-keeping . Their business is pretty much all about record-keeping . Mistakes like this are very rare . And a big business like a bank is unlikely to blatantly cheat you . They can and do make millions of dollars legally . Why should they break the law and risk paying huge fines and going to prison for a few hundred dollars ? They may give you a lousy deal , like charge you outrageous overdraft fees and pay piddling interest on your deposit , but they 're not going to lie about how much you owe . They just do n't . I suggest that you not live your life in fear of all the might-be 's . Take reasonable steps to protect yourself and get on with it . Read contracts before you sign , even if the other person gets impatient while you sit there reading . ESPECIALLY if the other person insists that you sign without reading . When you pay off a loan , you should get a piece of paper from the bank saying the loan has been paid . Stuff this piece of paper in a filing cabinet and keep it for years and years . Get a copy of your credit report periodically and make sure that there are no errors on it , like incorrect loan balances . I check mine once every year or two . Some people advise checking it every couple of months . It all depends how nervous you are and how much time you want to spend on it . Then get on with your life . Has your sister had some bad experience with loans in the past ? Or has she never borrowed money and she 's just confused about how it works ? That 's why I wonder if there 's more to the story , if there 's some basis for her fears .
Did you have an agreement with the company , in advance , that you were performing a service for them at a stipulated rate ? Else , your " work " was pro-bono , charity , free , whatever you want to call it . Too bad , so sad . On the other hand , if you did suffer demonstrable damages as a result of their error , you could try and pursue it in court , but , 2 hours of your time ? ... good luck with that ;-) Your best bet is to ask for some kind of credit , if you 're willing to put a bit more time into it and talk to the right people at the company . But you might get nothing . While a credit is n't cash , if you were to continue using their services , it 's something , and some companies make it a practice to offer credit to satisfy a long-time customer 's complaint .
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
Applying for credit , they want to know what your resources are as part of judging your creditworthiness . I 've never seen the question asked for checking accounts . Best guess I 've got is that this is pure marketing rather than anything related to the account application itself -- they want to know whether it 's worth trying to convince you to consolidate all your accounts into their bank .
Many car dealers have zero percent interest deals at various times of the year . Generally these are only available to customers that have excellent credit and are generally shorter term . Less qualified buyers can get loans with higher rates and longer periods . These 0 % dealer loans tend to be for 2 or 3 years not the 5 years loans many consumers want . Therefore the monthly payments are large . Almost always the better deal , i.e. lower monthly payments , is to take to rebate from a dealer , and go to a regular bank or credit union for the loan . When comparing a loan for the same number of months the biggest driver of the monthly payment is the loan amount , not the interest rate The biggest hurdles to paying for a car via a credit card is having enough of a credit limit , and convincing the dealer to accept the card . Many wo n't accept a credit card for the entire purchase . Keep in mind that many credit cards only have the introductory 0 % rates for a limited period of time . It is also easy to mess up the payment , and have the rate reset to 18-24 percent . If the short payment period of the teaser rate runs out , you will have to find another card that will allow a balance transfer to their teaser rate program .
Basically speaking , Japanese bank accounts are identified by three numbers : The four digit Bank number . For example 0005 is Mitsubishi Tokyo UFJ Bank The three digit Branch number . For example 001 = Main branch for Mitsubishi . The account number . This is your account number . Your ATM Cash Card and passbook will have these numbers on it in the format XXXX-YYYY-ZZZZZZZZ . When you use an ATM to send money to someone else ( like your landlord ) you but in these three numbers or use the search feature instead for the first two . This works the same whether you are talking about Mitsubishi , Mizuho , etc. . The only thing to note is that while real banks use locations for the branch number ( i.e. Ueno branch , Marunouchi branch , etc. ) , online only banks like Sony Bank ( MoneyKit ) , Rakuten Bank , SBi , etc. use fake locations like colors , etc. . This does n't matter much though . Japan Post bank is technically not a bank and uses a totally different numbering system , though recently they have come up with a strange formula to convert your JP Bank account number into a normal bank account number so you can send payments to it as shown above ) . All of this is basically for domestic transfers only , though . If you want to transfer money internationally , there are two basic ways : The official way . Go to your bank overseas , and give them the SWIFT code and account code for your bank ( likely the branch code will be necessary as well ) . The problem here is that they will likely charge a high fee for sending the money , and your bank in Japan may also charge a high fee for receiving it ! ( In addition to any currency conversion fees ) . A second problem is that only the very major banks even have SWIFT codes . Use a money transfer service that can handle both Japan and your other country . For example , you can use 2 Paypal accounts ( Only in the direction of From Japan To overseas , though ! ) , or you can use something like MoneyBookers Either way IBAN is a European standard and is n't used in Japan . If you just want to spend some money in Japan , the most convenient way is probably a foreign visa debit card . Or , you can use a foreign ATM card in Japan to withdraw cash and then deposit it into your Japanese account .
yes , when you apply for a new loan the loan originator will do a ' hard pull ' on your credit history which will result in your score going down . In my experience your score may go down by 20 points or so . You should be able to recover it fairly soon by making timely payments . I was also told that you can do as many hard pulls as you want within 48 hours and it will effect your just like one pull . So when shopping around for a mortgage probably a good idea to allow them to check your credit score on the same day . Unlike soft pulls when credit card companies just check it for marketing purposes . This does n't effect your credit score . Here some information explaining the difference <URL>
I just withdrew the the amount for the partial loan payment , so now I end up paying only partial penalty for the amount i needed to fulfil the loan .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
I do n't think so . I found <URL> : information for those organizations ( " data providers " ) that report their accounts receivable data to TransUnion . It explains the steps needed for becoming a data provider . It 's a <URL> , but the most obvious deal-breaker in your case is that a data provider has to have at least 100 accounts . Your family member evidently has only 1 . I could n't find similar information for the other two major US credit reporting agencies ( Experian and Equifax ) but I am inclined to think it is probably similar .
I see three options , none of them ideal : Walk away from the mortgage and be willing to endure the consequences of a lousy credit record for 7 years . Take out an unsecured personal loan so you can make a lump sum payment at closing to pay off the balance . You 'll have to pay it back with interest , so this is expensive too . If you are selling because you need to relocate , you could consider retaining ownership and renting out the house . Obviously this is n't an option if you just want to get out of home ownership . And if you 're moving away , you 'll have to hire local management to deal with tenants , you may not be able to get enough in rent to cover your costs , etc. . But it could be a way to avoid a new loan or a default .
HSA accounts come with various rules intended to ensure that the pre-tax money you have opted to put into your HSA account is indeed used for appropriate purposes . Most employers do n't handle these accounts in-house but contract with a company or bank who offers to take care of the details and the necessary accounting : the money is simply sent to the bank , and it is the bank that is responsible for ensuring that the money is indeed used appropriately . Now , if you say that you want Wells Fargo ( to pick another bank as an example ) to handle your HSA account , the employer will likely need to have a contract with Wells Fargo too , and Wells Fargo will charge you fees to handle the account also . Whether you will be any happier with Wells Fargo 's fees for a one-off HSA account versus Chase 's fees where a ( smaller ) bulk rate might be charged is something that you should find out before approaching your employer with a request to have Wells Fargo handle your HSA account .
Couple years ago i asked Citibank to replace my bank/credit card with ATM Only card without any issues .
Why ? Balance sheet is balance sheet , why is it complicated ? Bank shareholders get dividends in exactly the same way as any other company shareholders do : the company ends up with net profits , which the board of directors decides to distribute to shareholders based on certain amount per share . If at all . Not all the profits are distributed , and in fact - there are companies who do n't distribute dividends at all . Apple , for example , has n't ever distributed dividends until very very recently .
Yes . What you 're asking about are called <URL> . Sometimes these inverse ETFs are also leveraged to provide 2x , 3x , etc. of the downside . But , beware : An inverse ETF as any leveraged ETF needs to buy when the market rises and sell when it falls in order to maintain a fixed leverage ratio . This results in a volatility loss proportional to the market variance . Compared to a short position with identical initial exposure , the inverse ETF will therefore usually deliver inferior returns . [ ... ] ( Source : Wikipedia . Emphasis mine . ) Inverse ETFs are n't hard to find -- they trade on the same stock exchanges regular ETFs trade on . You should have access through your broker if you can already buy ETFs . If you 're interested in a list of specific inverse ETFs , <URL> . Be careful with these . Some related Q&amp;A here : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Take a look at Everbank . They offer CDs and Money Market Accounts denominated in Euros for US residents . <URL>
Your current interest on the car loan is about $ 68 a month . The penalty is only $ 12 . You should put as much on the car loan as you can until you get the interest payment down to $ 12 . I threw it into a spreadsheet and found that number to be the last nine payments , when the principal is around $ 2200 remaining . For those final payments , you 're better off paying the interest than the penalty . If you add in the rate on the mortgage , it changes things a bit . If you switch to overpaying the mortgage when you have $ 5500 left on the car , the penalty becomes more than the difference in the interest rates . So you may be better off with keeping the whole gain of the lower rate rather than the penalty reduced on the car loan . Technically we should also consider the Net Present Value of the penalties . $ 12 two years from now is worth less than $ 12 now . But it 's not a lot less , so I 'm just ignoring it . Including it would slightly favor paying the car loan early . Note that my spreadsheet is a rough calculation based on a monthly payment of $ 273.86 . They may give you better information in your receipt . Also , check with them if you can reduce your payment to reduce the penalties . If you can pay $ 1300 a month now and pay $ 15 a month for the last four years of the loan , that would be even better from your perspective . But they may not allow that nor similar alternatives . If you can only <URL> once on the mortgage , I 'm not sure that I 'd pick this as the time to do it . I 'd prefer to save it for an emergency . And if you would have to pay fees , it 's probably not worth it even if you could redraw as often as you want . If you pay $ 7000 of the car loan immediately , that saves you six months of payments and about $ 200 in interest . Reduce the interest savings by $ 72 for added penalties . That 's only $ 130 in savings from using the redraw . In the past six months , you overpaid the car loan by about $ 1300 and the mortgage by $ 7000 . Just keep overpaying $ 5000 over the next four months and put it all on the car loan . You 'll have it down to the point where the penalty starts to hurt . Then switch the overpayment to the mortgage and pay the minimum on the car loan until it finishes . That 's simpler than anything involving the redraw and still gets you good savings . I said this above but will repeat it here . The goal is to pay the car loan down to $ 5500 in principal . At that point , overpaying the mortgage is a better deal than overpaying the car loan and taking the early payment penalty at the end . More than $ 5500 and it looks like you 're better off paying the car loan even with the penalty .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
Nationwide Flex Account lets you receive money internationally for free , but you have to pay to send it . It meets all your other criteria .
Short answer : yes , you can put up collateral for someone else 's loan . The bank will be happy to take your money , give it to the other person , and return it to you on completion of the loan ( keeping the interest the security makes on the money market and the interest they 're charging the other person for themselves ) . If the above does n't sound very appealing ( you do n't see any benefit from your investment , and can be left holding the bag if your friend defaults on their loan ) , it really is n't a great way to spend your money . However , as assistance to someone else , it provides several advantages over directly transferring the money : The lendee gets a better rate than they normally would from the bank - Basically , from the bank 's perspective , the loan 's covered , so there 's very little risk of a default leaving them holding the bag . As such , they can typically offer rock-bottom , cost-of-capital rates . The lendee builds credit history - Since the lendee is making payments on a legitimate , structured loan to an entity that reports to the credit agencies , this is a very good way to help the lendee build good credit . You avoid the gift tax - If you lend over $ 13k , unless there 's a contract between the two of you stipulating a schedule of payments , it 's a " gift " as far as the IRS is concerned and you will be taxed on the amount above the exemption . EDIT : The $ 13k figure ( going up to $ 14k for 2013 ) is only the limit if the loan is not a loan , but in fact treated as a gift ( i.e. no reasonable prospect of repayment ) . For bona fide loans , there is no fixed upper limit on the amount you can loan , but the gift tax will be determined based on the difference between the interest charged and the " applicable federal rate " ( this rule is found in IRC Sec . 7872 ; check IRS.gov for monthly Rev. Proc . 's listing newest AFR 's ) . Last time I checked the short-term and medium-term rates were around 0.2 % , so if this still holds it 's an excellent time right now to " gift " your credit at little to no gift tax cost . One can even take advantage of this by making so-called " back-to-back " loans - taking out a HELOC at 4 % and subsequently loaning proceeds to your child at .2 % ( or whatever the current AFR ) , producing no taxable gift on the 3.8 % difference . The lendee may be able to deduct interest - depending on the type of loan ( maybe the $ 20k is the 15 % of an 80-15-5 mortgage ) , the interest paid on that loan can be tax-deductible . A personal loan between friends ? No way .
end question
start question
What is meant by " buy-side firm " and " sell-side firm " ?
Traditionally , dealers and broker-dealers were in contact with the actual producers of a product or issuers of a security , selling it at the exchange on their behalf . Consumers would traditionally be on the buy side , of course . These days , anyone can enter the market on either side . Even if you do n't hold the security or product , you could sell it , and take on the risk of having to stock up on it by the delivery date in exchange for cash or other securities . On the other side , if you ca n't hold the product or security you could still buy it , taking on the risk of having to dispose of it somehow by delivery in exchange for cash or other securities . In either case you ( the sell-side ) take on risk and provide products/securities/cash . This is most commonly known as market making . Modern literature coins the terms liquidity taker ( buy-side ) and liquidity provider ( sell-side ) . Even more accurately , risk management literature would use the terms risk-taker ( sell-side ) and risk spreader or risk reducer ( buy side ) . This is quite illustrative in modern abstract markets . Take a market that allows for no offsetting or hedging because the product in question is abstract or theoretical , e.g. weather trading , volatility trading , inflation trading , etc. . There 's always one party trying to eliminate dependence on or correlation to the product ( the risk reducer , buy-side ) and the counterparty taking on their risk ( sell-side ) .
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
Convenience , and of course money . In case of an event , you 'll have to spend the full worth of money to fix/replace , while if you 're insured - you get the insurance to pay for it . It is up to you to decide , if the money saved on the lower premiums worth the risk of paying much more in case of an event . Of course , the cheaper the car the more it makes sense not to pay the premiums . Many people do that . Regarding the bargaining power , I actually think that you would pay less if it is not going through insurance than the bill the insurance pays . I fixed a nasty dent for like $ 300 at one shop , while at the other they said " It 's $ 1200 , but what do you care , your insurance will cover it " ( I had $ 500 deductible , so in the end it was cheaper for me to pay $ 300 without the insurance at all ) .
Yes , retail investors can do this or something like this to hedge their accounts in the face of a major market shaker . The pitfalls of a sell-off and re-buy are costs , the wash sale rules , and timing of the re-buy . I do n't know how large your positions are but if you have a $ 10 trade commission that 's $ 200 to sell everything , and $ 200 to buy them all back . Granted $ 400 is only 2 % on a $ 20,000 portfolio . If any of the positions you sell is currently at a loss you 'd need to be out of the position ( and substantially similar positions ) for at least 30 days to book the loss and avoid wash sale rules . What if , inside the 30 day window , the stocks appreciate higher than they fell ? This is exactly what happened with the brexit vote . Everything fell in the tank then within a week the market was just fine . In a long term strategy , most retail investors are best off to simply let the money ride . You can hedge in other ways by buying some options or putting money in an index short fund or buying options on the index short fund . This way you 're not actually selling your positions but you 'll recoup some losses in the event of a loss . If you 're really concerned maybe you let your new contributions to the account sit in cash until after the event that 's concerning you .
Yes - this is exactly what it means . No losses ( negative earnings ) . With today 's accounting methods , you might want to determine whether you view earnings including or excluding extraordinary items . For example , a company might take a once-off charge to its earnings when revising the value of a major asset . This would show in the " including " but not in the " excluding " figure . The book actually has a nice discussion in Chapter 12 " Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings " which considers several additional variables to consider here too . Note that this earnings metric is different from " Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor " which requires 10 years . PS - My edition ( 4th edition hardback ) does n't have 386 pages so your reference is n't correct for that edition . I found it on page 209 in Chapter 15 " Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor " .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
No , you do n't . Rounding errors happen , and if there 's no change in the actual tax there 's no reason to amend . If all the income was properly reported and the tax was properly calculated - no-one cares if it was rounded up or down on one of the lines . Note for the next time though : Not sure about New York , but Federal taxes are generally rounded to the nearest dollar on each line of the form . So do n't calculate cents , just round to the nearest dollar , and be consistent on all of your tax forms . Technically , it is perfectly legal to report cents as well ( and people used to when the forms were still filled by hand with pen ) , but all the automatic tax filing software rounds , so just do that .
Most Banks allow to make an international transfer . As the amounts is very small , there is no paperwork required . Have your dad walk into any Bank and request for a transfer . He should be knowing your Bank 's SWIFT BIC , Name and Address and account number . Edit : Under the liberalised remittance scheme , any individual can transfer upto 1 million USD or eq . A CA certificate is required . Please get in touch with your bank in India for exact steps
I would focus first on maxing out your RRSPs ( or 401k ) each year , and once you 've done that , try to put another 10 % of your income away into unregistered long term growth savings . Let 's say you 're 30 and you 've been doing that since you graduated 7 years ago , and maybe you averaged 8 % p.a. return and an average of $ 50k per year salary ( as a round number ) . I would say you should have 60k to 120k in straight up investments around age 30 . If that 's the case , you 're probably well on your way to a very comfortable retirement .
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
Yes . Depending on which way they are going this is known as a redemption or a creation . In fact , it 's not just the ETF company than can do this . There are other entities known as " authorized participants " who can do this at will . This is the reason that the ETF tracks the underlying basket . When it deviates , that creates an arbitrage opportunity for the authorized participants , which they will take once it reaches a level to cover their transactions costs .
I believe you are talking about Public Provident Fund and National Savings Certificate schemes in India . <URL> - > Deposit money - > If you want to take a loan after 3 years , you can take out 25 % of the balance in your PPF account . <URL> - > Money locked for 6 years and can only be encashed after 3 years , you cancel your deposit and encash all your money . Money is safe in both cases , because they are secured by the Indian government . But interest ( 8.75 % at present for both in 2014-15 financial year ) is compunded anually for PPF , but half yearly for NSC . So you get a higher interest rate in case of NSC . So if you can lock in your money , without any need for withdrawls , choose a NSC for higher returns . Tax rebate wise , both are same .
Options are contractual instruments . Most options you 'll run into are contracts which allow you to buy or sell stock at a given price at some time in the future , if you feel like it ( it gives you the option ) . These are Call and Put options , respectively ( for buying the stock and selling the stock ) . If you have a lot of money in an index fund ETF , you may be able to protect your portfolio against a market decline by ( e.g. ) buying Put options against the ETF for a substantially lower price than the index fund currently trades at . If the market crashes and your fund falls in value significantly , you can exercise the options , selling the fund at the price that your option has specified ( to the counter-party of your contract ) . This is the risk that the option mitigates against . Even if you do n't have one particular fund with your investments , you could still buy a put option on a similar fund , and resell it to another person in lieu of exercise ( they would be capable of buying the stock and performing the exercise themselves for profit if necessary ) . In general , if you are buying an option for safety , it should be an option either on something you own , or something whose price behavior will mimic something you own . You will note that options are linked to the price of stocks . Futures are contracts whose values are linked to the price of other things , typically commodities such as oil , gold , or orange juice . Their behaviors may diverge . With an option you can have a contractual guarantee on the exact investment you 're trying to protect . ( Additionally , many commodities ' value may fall at the same time that stock investments fall : during economic contractions which reduce industrial activity , resulting in lower profits for firms and less demand for commodities . ) You may also note that there are other structures that options may have - PUT options on index funds or similar instruments are probably most specifically relevant to your interests . The downside of protecting yourself with options is that it costs money to buy this option , and the option eventually expires , so you may lose money . Essentially , you are buying safety and risk-tolerance from the option contract 's counterparty , and safety is not free . I can not inform you what level of safety is appropriate for your portfolio 's needs , but more safety is more expensive .
There are specific rules about how the gain is calculated when selling shares acquired at different times / prices in the same company . See the HMRC article <URL> : - in summary , you have to calculate the AVERAGE cost of acquisition and use that , so it makes no difference what order you sell them in . In addition , there are particular rules about shares acquired through various types of Employee Share Scheme . There is loads of information about all this on the HMRC website but if you are at all unsure , I think you would be better off consulting a tax accountant .
Usually the amount of the ESPP stocks is very small compared to the overall volume of the trading , so it should n't matter . But check if for your company it not so ( look at the stock history for the previous ESPP dates , and volumes ) .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
HSBC , Hang Seng , and other HK banks had a series of special savings account offers when I lived in HK a few years ago . Some could be linked to the performance of your favorite stock or country 's stock index . Interest rates were higher back then , around 6 % one year . What they were effectively doing is taking the interest you would have earned and used it to place a bet on the stock or index in question . Technically , one way this can be done , for instance , is with call options and zero coupon bonds or notes . But there was nothing to strategize with once the account was set up , so the investor did not need to know how it worked behind the scenes ... Looking at the deposit plus offering in particular , this one looks a little more dangerous than what I describe . See , now we are in an economy of low almost zero interest rates . So to boost the offered rate the bank is offering you an account where you guarantee the AUD/HKD rate for the bank in exchange for some extra interest . Effectively they sell AUD options ( or want to cover their own AUD exposures ) and you get some of that as extra interest . Problem is , if the AUD declines , then you lose money because the savings and interest will be converted to AUD at a contractual rate that you are agreeing to now when you take the deposit plus account . This risk of loss is also mentioned in the fine print . I would n't recommend this especially if the risks are not clear . If you read the fine print , you may determine you are better off with a multicurrency account , where you can change your HK$ into any currency you like and earn interest in that currency . None of these were " leveraged " forex accounts where you can bet on tiny fluctuations in currencies . Tiny being like 1 % or 2 % moves . Generally you should beware anything offering 50:1 or more leverage as a way to possibly lose all of your money quickly . Since you mentioned being a US citizen , you should learn about IRS form TD F 90-22 .1 ( which must be filed yearly if you have over $ 10,000 in foreign accounts ) and google a little about the " foreign account tax compliance act " , which shows a shift of the government towards more strict oversight of foreign accounts .
<URL> and <URL> allow shipping packages with COD ( Collect on Delivery ) option . You tell them how much to collect , and they will hold the package and attempt to collect it from the receiver and then remit to you . If they can not collect - they 'll return the package to you . In the ( post - ) Soviet Union republics , the local post offices provide ( d ) similar services . If you 're shipping from/to these areas - check with the postal service if they have it . However , that may be only limited to the postage costs ( I believe that 's the case with the USPS ) .
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
end question
start question
What should you do if you have misplaced your previous tax returns ?
Call or write in for a copy of your transcripts ? <URL> Of if you need the exact return itself <URL>
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
Applying for credit , they want to know what your resources are as part of judging your creditworthiness . I 've never seen the question asked for checking accounts . Best guess I 've got is that this is pure marketing rather than anything related to the account application itself -- they want to know whether it 's worth trying to convince you to consolidate all your accounts into their bank .
Ultimately this depends on a number of factors , some of which could be very localized . The first question to ask yourself is why you are purchasing a house . If your reason can be summarized as something like " because it is a good investment " , then the simple answer is to wait . Houses come with many fun hidden expenses ( like the dishwasher crapping out or needing a new roof in the middle of winter ) and historically their returns approximate inflation . In addition , any wealth you do gain is tied up in the house . There are many online resources that can step you through the thought process on deciding if getting a home is right or not , as well as calculators that can account for unexpected expenses and such to indicate the financial side of things . Now that you have decided buying a house makes sense ... In the US there are a number of options you have . If you ( or your spouse ) have a military record ( either currently active or retired/honorable discharge ) then you qualify for the VA loan program which offers low-money-down loans without PMI . If you want to buy a property that is rural farmland , and you meet a number of other requirements there are USDA loans available that also have low-to-no down payment required and no PMI . For conventional loans , lenders generally will not accept traditional loans for the down payment , though sometimes family loans are ok with them ( family loans are a bad idea for other reasons ) . Assuming you do not qualify for any of those other programs , and you do not wish to take a gift/loan / " family feud starter " from your family , you still have a few other possibilities . Many states have programs to help with down payment assistance . Depending on where the house you want is , how much you earn , how expensive the house is , and other possible factors , you might be able to get a grant or an extremely low-to-no interest loan to help bridge the gap . Note that these programs might put limits on the kind of loan you can have ( for instance it might specify you need a FHA , VA , or USDA loan to qualify ) . The specific details of the plan can be very location specific . For instance Washington State has a state wide program ( <URL> ) , but Seattle city also has a <URL> . The income limits , maximum purchase price , and assistance amount are very different between the two programs . A great resource to start with is the <URL> . They have more information on some of the federal level programs , and can also direct you to the local programs near you . Pay attention to the local programs , because many of them have classes for eligibility that you can take for free and that discuss loans and the home buying process for your area ( this is a great resource , even if you do n't wind up using those programs ) .
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
The short answer is no you can only deduct actual expenses . The long answer is that it would be impossible for the IRS to determine the value of your time and it would open the tax system to an enormous amount of fraud ( think of being able to make up time spent or writing off time spent volunteering at a soup kitchen or any other charity ) . Now you can write off expenses you have involved in doing the work , equipment and supplies used to do the work along with any wages you paid an employee or contractor to do said work .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable : · $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly . · $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child · $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
Generally speaking , if a purchased item has been returned for credit or some other adjustment ( e.g. you choose to apply a " Rewards " amount to your account instead of getting a " $ 8 will get you $ 10 " coupon for Starbucks ) results in a credit to your account that gets posted on or before the due date of your most recent monthly statement , then you can pay the statement balance less the credit by the due date and still have it count as " monthly statement balance paid in full by due date . "
You would report the overall income on your <URL> , and use form <URL> to report income and expenses for your business . Form T2125 is like a mini income-statement where you report your gross revenue and subtract off expenses . Being able to claim legitimate expenses as a deduction is an important tax benefit for businesses big and small . In terms of your second question , you generally need to register for a business number at least once you cross the threshold for GST / HST . If you earn $ 30,000 / year ( or spread over four consecutive quarters ) then charging GST / HST is mandatory ; see <URL> . There are other conditions as well , but the threshold is the principal one . You can also register voluntarily for GST / HST even if you 're below that threshold ; see <URL> . The advantage of registering voluntarily is that you can claim input tax credits ( ITC ) on any GST that your business pays , and remit only the difference . That saves your business money , especially if you have a lot of expenses early on . Finally , in terms of Ontario specifically ( saw that on your profile ) , you might want to check out <URL> . There are specific cases in which you need to register a business : e.g. specific types of businesses , or if you plan on doing business under a name other than your own . Finally , you may want to consider whether incorporating might be better for you . Here 's an interesting article that compares <URL> . Here 's another article , <URL> , from the feds .
There are two scenarios to determine the relevant date , and then a couple of options to determine the relevant price . Relevant Date If the stocks were purchased in your name from the start - then the relevant date is the date of the purchase . If the stocks were willed to you ( i.e. : you inherited them ) , then the relevant date is the date at which the person who willed them to you had died . How to figure out You can check with the company if they have records of the original purchase . If it was in " street name " - they may not have such records , and then you need to figure out what broker it was to hold them . Figuring the price Once you figured out the relevant date , contact the company 's " investor relationships " contact and ask them for the adjusted stock price on that date ( adjusted for splits/mergers/acquisitions / whatever ) . That would be the cost basis per share you would be using . Alternatively you can research historical prices on your favorite financial information site ( Google/Yahoo/Bloomberg or the stock exchange where the company is listed ) . Last Resort If you can not figure the cost basis , or it costs too much - you can just write cost basis as $ 0 , and claim the whole proceeds as gains . You 'll pay capital gains tax on the whole amount , but that may end up being cheaper than conducting the investigation to reveal the actual numbers .
You can designate one or more beneficiaries for your HSA account who will get the money when you die . Some states require consent from your spouse ( if you 're married ) if they are not the beneficiary . The funds maybe taxable to the beneficiary . If you do n't designate any beneficiaries , by default the money will go into your estate and be handled the same as other assets . The funds may be taxable by the estate . If you had any medical expenses before you died , it might be possible to pay them from the HSA . When looking around for information about this I would start with the IRS publications which are the authoritative source of this information . Other articles you read are usually just summarizations of this information and can sometimes be incomplete or incorrect . <URL>
TL ; DR : I have five main suggestions . They are in bold , below . The rest is mostly commentary . The Presto system has some quirks . The system has also had <URL> in the past . 1 . Set up Autoload using a credit card . If there are any system foul-ups , this may help to protect you . If you have Autoload-related problems , phone Presto . If they do n't help , phone your credit-card issuer . If the Presto system attempts repeated unjustified Autoloads , as it has done to <URL> , you wo n't be hit with $ 150 of NSF fees . If you do use a debit card and have problems , the money will already be missing . You can phone Presto ; you can phone your bank ; you can contact the BBB ; you can file an Ontario Ombudsman complaint against Metrolinx ; or you can go to small-claims court . But these options might not help . 2 . If you only have a debit card , it may be unwise to set up Autoload . Debit-card Autoload and Period Pass Autorenew are convenient , but carry risks . ( See above . ) You can live without them . 3 . It may be wisest to choose a threshold of $ 20 or more . Autoloads are supposed to be processed instantly and automatically , with <URL> . Recent system changes have made it <URL> to choose a threshold of $ 5 , but that does n't mean you should . There are rare cases , including credit-card expiry , credit-card failure , and <URL> , in which a $ 5 threshold Autoload can fail . If you can afford to set a threshold of $ 20 , consider doing so . If you use GO Transit daily , you may want to choose a threshold which is even higher . 4 . Do n't choose an Autoload amount over $ 50 unless you use GO Transit . <URL> are a hassle . Refunds over $ 50 are a big hassle . Do n't keep hundreds of dollars on your card unless you use GO Transit daily . If you ever decide to stop using Presto : Use up most of the money on your card , then give it away to a trusted friend or relative . 5 . Know that Autoload may not work correctly if your card starts out below the threshold . If your card has $ 3 on it , and you set up Autoload , the card <URL> or <URL> reload itself . If Autoload fails to work , your card may eventually end up in overdraft , and you may need to schlep to a customer service office to get it unblocked . It 's silly . If you enable Autoload on a Presto card which is below your chosen threshold , watch your balance . See whether Autoload actually succeeds or not . ( The Presto website is n't always up-to-date . You may want to instead use a balance-checking machine or a self-serve reload machine to check your balance . ) Then please click <URL> and tell us what happened .
The <URL> is roughly analogous to the FDIC for investments . There are some important differences like a lack of 100 % guarantee you get all of your funds back . The SIPC understands you invested knowing there was some risk , and therefore you take that same risk in getting your money from a failed brokerage . However there is still a level of commitment and trust that lessen the risk of investing in the wrong place . Also , do not typo the acronym at your work computer . In the US ( and perhaps elsewhere ) it is a racist term , and you are likely to get some bad search results . <URL>
If you do n't know the refund amount - how exactly do you expect anything to be filed ? The CPA can not file anything on your behalf without you signing <URL> - which has the refund amount printed on it . You should have signed this form and received a copy of the tax return , otherwise - the CPA can not file anything . In case your CPA is a crook and filed your tax return without your authorization - you 'll see it on your IRS transcript . I wrote a <URL> . However , CPA doing so may very easily lose the license , so I doubt that it happened in your case . More likely than not your CPA just did n't do it on time . If it results in any penalties for you - you can demand the CPA to cover it ( but not the actual tax - that is yours ) . If you 're due refund there will be no penalties .
If you are at the point where the credit agency is attempting to verify your identity , they may very well put up lines of credit that you never had . Just answer accurately to the two or three questions . If they ca n't find you , you might have a problem of just not having much of a report , or worse you might be " married " to another similar account . For example if you are a Jr. and your father a Sr. the agencies might have you all mixed up .
When you take any money out of an HSA , you 'll get a <URL> . HSAs work a little differently than a 401 ( k ) . With a 401 ( k ) , you are n't supposed to take any money out until retirement . HSAs , however , are spending accounts . I take money out of my HSA every year . As long as you spend the money you take out of your HSA on qualified medical expenses , there are no taxes or penalties due . The bank that holds your HSA does n't know or care what you spend the money on ; they will certainly allow you to empty your HSA account . Anything you take out will be reported to the IRS ( and to you ) on a 1099-SA . At tax time , along with your tax return , you send in a <URL> , on which you report to the IRS what you took out of HSA , and you also certify how much of that money was spent on medical expenses . If any of it was spent on something else , taxes and penalties are due .
I value my home at slightly below ( say , less 8-10 % ) of comparable , recent sales in my neighborhood . I do this for a couple of reasons : I would n't expect to get the best price at any peak . Wishful thinking . And , Actually realizing any money from a sale would involve real estate commissions , moving fees , legal fees , etc. . I never guess . If I can not find a comparable sale , I leave the home value as-is until there is data .
end question
start question
How to store millions of dollars ?
It depends on your situation . For families with small amounts over the FDIC limit , there 's account structures that let you get multiple coverages . Things like holding 100k in an account in joint with your wife , each of you holding 100k in individual accounts etc. . For larger sums and institutions , there 's <URL> . This system spreads your money out to multiple institutions with an eye to FDIC insurance limits . Some people feel this system is abusing FDIC , so I suppose it 's possible it gets outlawed / shut down some day . Alternatively , you can just invest it yourself . Treasury Direct allows small buyers to buy US govt bonds at finished auction rates , or submit a qualified bid at auction . You wo n't get great rates , but Treasuries are about as good as dollars .
Imagine any mutual fund or ETF . They have an investment philosophy . It may be a combination of : growth , value , national , international , sector focused , broad based , equities , small , medium , large , government bonds , corporate bonds , junk bonds ... They also have an algorithm to decide which options within that philosophy make sense . That is how they decide which of the thousands of opportunities within their philosophy make sense to buy or sell . Socially responsible investment is just another philosophy/algorithm . Does it help or hurt ? Nobody can know in advance . This year it may have been a winner ( or a loser ) next year the opposite may be true . The best algorithm in the world may not turn a fund into a winner , if the section of the total market they focus on is a poor performer . Then again a poor algorithm may hurt performance . You have to decide if the returns you are seeing with the fund is acceptable to you , based on your motivation for wanting to use socially responsible investing as a criteria .
I think it really depends on why you are doing this , and the level of detail needed to achieve you goals . Beware of the perfect being the enemy of the good . There is a danger of making the process too much work , and so do n't do any budgeting at all . If you are just trying to figure out where your money is being spent , you might want to just start with some high level categories . In your example , either a single groceries category , or groceries and household . Do this for a few months and see if it is telling you what you need to know . If it turns out that a particular category is making up a disproportionate fraction of your budget , start breaking it out into several smaller categories . This can either be done just for new entries , or by also going back and recatogorizing older ones . You can expect to change things over time as well , as you spending patterns and lifestyle change . For instance buying a house ( or simply moving into a new one ) or having a child . TL ; DR : Fine a balance between the information your budget provides and the amount of work it takes to make it .
It is ordinary income to you . You should probably talk to a California licensed CRTP/EA/CPA , but I doubt they 'll say anything different . You would probably ask them whether you can treat some of it as a refund of rent paid , but I personally would n't feel comfortable with that .
Right now interest rates are pretty low and as such you wo n't see blockbuster interest rates in anything highly liquid . That being said you 're motivation is liquidity over rate of return anyway so I do n't think that is a concern . Money Market funds should give you a similar return to AMEX Personal Savings . Due to their lack of a rate guarantee I would n't be surprised if that is simply a branded Money Market account . Your best bet is to look at what rates you can get on any short term security and park your money in the one that best suites your needs and offers the greatest return . Money Markets are simply a great way for you to keep your cash liquid while investing you in a broad range of liquid assets ( diversification is key ) .
A lot ( sometimes called a round lot ) always refers to the quantity of physical good that you 're getting , like a carton of eggs or a barrel of oil . The tricky thing in the case of forex is that the physical good also happens to be a currency . A spot currency product trades in the denomination on the right-hand side ( RHS ) of the product name . So if you 're buying EUR/USD you are paying USD currency to get EUR " units " , and if you 're selling EUR/USD you are receiving USD by giving away EUR " units " . The EUR is the " physical good " in this case . The way I remember it is to think of all products ( not just currencies ) as trading pairs . So AAPL in my mind is AAPL/USD . When I buy AAPL/USD I am paying USD to get AAPL units . When I sell AAPL/USD I am receiving USD by giving away AAPL units . The thing on the left is the physical good ( even if it happens to be money ) that you are exchanging , and the thing on the right is the money that you are exchanging . So , when I buy a lot of AAPL , I am buying 100 shares at their current price in dollars . Similarly , when I buy a lot of EUR/USD , I am buying 100K Euros at their current price in dollars .
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
Digital content is a different beast than physical content , because usually you just buy a license to access the content . You may download it , but you 're not allowed to send it to someone else . Some eBook authors will offer a money-back guarantee after , say , 30 days , or even longer . If the content is good , it 's usually a good idea to do this . The marketing term for this is risk reversal and it takes down the barrier of " what if I do n't like this " and encourages you to buy it to look at it . You should factor this in before you buy a digital product . Having said that , if you used a Visa card , and if the product truly was awful and misleading , you may be able to <URL> .
OP wants to do something very honourable , applause for that . Being a Greek I have insider knowledge about the impact of various organisations . Fact is , for people from abroad what is the most highly recommended action would be to support organisations of an international network ( red cross , doctors w/out borders etc ) , because the health system is suffering seriously nowadays - or access to it - , and providing redundancy in that respect can certainly make a difference , via global health efforts . The next best thing you can do , to yourself and others , is basically to take a vacation in Greece and visit both a big city ( here 's where the problems will be visible ) and an island ( here 's where you 'll realise that you are in a place of stunning natural beauty ) . By taking this action you achieve two things : you put the economy in motion - a small vote , yet it counts - and you actually are a first-person observer . Enough is enough with victimisation via the news coming from inside or outside Greece ! People need get the whole respective .
Contextualization First of all I think I 'll clear off some confusion in the topic , the Sterling Ratio is a very simple investment portfolio measurement that fits nicely to the topic of personal finance , although not so much to a foreign exchange trading system . The Sterling Ratio is mainly used in the context of hedge funds to measure its risk-reward ratio for long term investments . To do so it has been adapted to the following in order to appear more like the <URL> : I Suppose this is why you question the Average Largest Draw-down . I 'll come back to that later . It 's original definition , suggested by the company Deane Sterling Jones , is a little different and perhaps the one you should use if you want to measure your trading system 's long term risk-reward ratio , which is as followed : Note : Average Annual Draw-down has to be negative on the above-mentioned formula . This one is very simple to calculate and the one to use if you want to measure any portfolio 's long-term results , such an example of a 5 or 10 years period and calculate the average of each years largest drawdown . To answer @Dheer 's comment , this specific measurement can also be used in personal investments portfolio , which is considered a topic related to personal finance . Back to the first one , which answers your question . It 's used in most cases in investment strategies , such as hedging , not trading systems . By hedging I mean that in these cases long term investments are made in anti-correlated securities to obtain a diversified portfolio with a very stable growth . This one is calculated normally annually because you rely on the Annual Risk-Free Rate . Answer to Your Question : Having that in mind I think you can guess that the Average Largest Drawdown is the average between the Largest/Maximum Drawdown from each security in the portfolio . And this does n't make sense in a trading system . Example : If you have invested in 5 different securities where we calculated the Largest Draw-down for each , such as represented in the following array : , in this case your Average Largest Draw-down is the that equals 0.172 or 17,2 % If your portfolio 's annual return is 15 % and the Risk-free Rate is 10 % , your Sterling Ratio , which result to 0.29 . The higher the rate better is the risk-reward ratio of your portfolio . Note : I suggest in your case to only use the original Sterling Ratio to calculate your long-term risk-reward , in any other case I suggest looking at the <URL> and <URL> ratios instead .
You are already doing everything you can . If your employer does not have a 401 ( k ) you are limited to investing in a Roth or a traditional IRA ( Roth is post tax money , traditional IRA gives you a deduction so it is essentially pre tax money ) . The contribution limits are the same for both and contributing to either adds to the limit ( so you ca n't duplicate ) . <URL> : Roth or regular IRA Insurance products ( blech ) Low cost investments ( index funds , etfs , tax free muni bonds ) Plead with your employer One thing you may want to bring up with your employer is that they could <URL> . This allows them to set a % ( up to 25 % ) that they contribute pre-tax to an IRA for everyone at the company that has worked there at least 3 years . If you are at a small company , maybe everyone with that kind of seniority would take an equivalent pay cut to get the automatic retirement contribution ? ( Note that a SEP-IRA has to apply to everyone equally percentage wise that has worked there for 3 years , and the employer makes the contribution , not you ) .
When I have asked for " cash back " at the register it has been treated as part of the purchase , and not as a cash advance . The monthly credit card bill always notes that by cash advance balance is always zero . I have noticed that one of the cards ( Discover ) does know about the cash back because the description on the website for the transaction does mention the amount of cash back I received . But still the cash advance balance is zero . The amount you can receive in cash back is based on the limits set by the store and the card company .
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
I would expect that your position will be liquidated when the option expires , but not before . There 's probably still some time value so it does n't make sense for the buyer to exercise the option early and take your stock . Instead they could sell the option to someone else and collect the remaining time value . Occasionally there 's a weird situation for whatever reason , where an option has near-zero or negative time value , and then you might get an early exercise . But in general if there 's time value someone would want to sell rather than exercise . If the option has n't expired , maybe the stock will even fall again and you 'll keep it . If the option just expired , maybe the exercise just has n't been processed yet , it may take overnight or so .
The main disadvantage is if you buy things on your credit card ( and presumably get cash somewhere else ) , you may get reward points/miles/cash back etc. while debit card benefits may not be as generous . Depends on your card . Another disadvantage of cash back is budgeting/record keeping ; if you download transactions or look at them in Mint , you 'll see a single transaction for $ 58 on groceries instead of $ 38 on groceries plus $ 20 in cash . If you get your cash back at an ATM you will know that whole transaction is cash withdrawal .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
Unless you are getting the loan from a loan shark , it is the most common case that each payment is applied to the interest accrued to date and the rest is applied towards reducing the principal . So , assuming that fortnightly means 26 equally-spaced payments during the year , the interest accrued at the end of the first fortnight is $ 660,000 x ( 0.0575 / 26 ) = $ 1459.62 and so the principal is reduced by $ 2299.61 - $ 1459.62 = $ 839.99 For the next payment , the principal still owing at the beginning of that fortnight will be $ 660,000 - $ 839.99 = $ 659,160.01 and the interest accrued will be $ 659,160.01 x ( 0.0575 / 26 ) = $ 1457.76 and so slightly more of the principal will be reduced than the $ 839.99 of the previous payment . Lather , rinse , repeat until the loan is paid off which should occur at the end of 17.5 years ( or after 455 biweekly payments ) . If the loan rate changes during this time ( since you say that this is a variable-rate loan ) , the numbers quoted above will change too . And no , it is not the case that just % 5.75 of the $ 2300 is interest , and the rest comes off the principle ( sic ) ? Interest is computed on the principal amount still owed ( $ 660,000 for starters and then decreasing fortnightly ) . not the loan payment amount . Edit After playing around with a spreadsheet a bit , I found that if payments are made every two weeks ( 14 days apart ) rather than 26 equally spaced payments in one year as I used above , interest accrues at the rate of 5.75 x ( 14/365 ) % for the 14 days rather than at the rate of ( 5.75 / 26 ) % for the time between payments as I used above each 14 days , $ 2299.56 is paid as the biweekly mortgage payment instead of the $ 2299.61 stated by the OP , then 455 payments ( slightly less than 17.5 calendar years when leap years are taken into account ) will pay off the loan . In fact , that 455-th payment should be reduced by 65 cents . In view of rounding of fractional cents and the like , I doubt that it would be possible to have the last equal payment reduce the balance to exactly 0 .
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
Candle stick patterns are generally an indication of possible short term changes in price direction ( if a reversal pattern ) . A doji is such a reversal candle , and should be read as there could be a short term change in the direction of price action . A doji is most effective at peaks or troughs , and the outcome can be a higher probability if occuring during overbought conditions ( at the peak ) or during oversold conditions ( at the trough ) . So a doji should be used for short term changes in direction and not a total change in the overall trend . Although there could be a doji at the very top of an uptrend or at the very bottom of a downtrend , we would n't know it was the change of the trend until price action confirms it . The definition of an uptrend is higher highs and higher lows . The definition of a downtrend is lower lows and lower highs . So an uptrend will not be broken until we have a lower high and confirmed by a lower low , or a lower low confirmed by a lower high . Similarly a downtrend will not be broken until we have a higher low confirmed by a higher high or a higher high followed by a higher low . Another thing to consider is that doji 's and other candle stick patters work best when the market is trending , even if they are only short term trends . You should usually wait for confirmation of the change in direction by only taking a long trade if price moves above the high of the doji , or only taking a short trade if price moves below the low of the doji .
end question
start question
What assets would be valuable in a post-apocalyptic scenario ?
Gold and silver are for after the crisis , not during . Gold and silver are far more likely to be able to be exchanged for things you need , since they are rare , easily divided , etc. . Getting land away from where the crap is happening is also good , but it 's more than that . Say you have land somewhere . How will the locals view you if you move there to hunker down only when things go bad ? They wo n't really trust you , and you 'll inherit a new set of problems . Building relationships in an off-the-beaten-path area requires a time investment . Investing in lifestyle in general is good . Lifestyle is n't just toys , but it 's privacy , peace of mind , relationships with people with whom you can barter skills , as well as the skills you might think you 'd need to do more than just get by in whatever scenario you envision . For the immediate crisis , you 'd better have the things you 'll need for a few months . Stores probably wo n't be supplied on any regular basis , and the shelves will be bare . Trying to use gold or silver during the crisis just makes you a target for theft . With regard to food , it 's best to get acclimated to a diet of what you 'd have on hand . If you get freeze-dried food , eat it now , so that it 's not a shock to your system when you have to eat it . ( Can you tell I 've been thinking about this ? :) )
No . You 're entitled to 1 % of votes at the shareholders ' meeting ( unless there 's class division between shareholders , that is ) . If more than 50 % of the shareholders vote to close the company , sell off its assets and distribute the proceeds to the owners - you 'll get 1 % share of the distributions .
Umbrella policies really exist for peace of mind irrespective of how wealthy you are imho . If you 're happy with the coverage your home owner 's and / or car insurance offers and / or happy with the odds of an event occurring that would hold you liable for ( significantly ) more than the amount you 're covered for , you do n't need it . If on the other hand the " what if " keeps you awake at night , you probably do need it . I do n't drive often , and rent , so am not terribly exposed and do not currently have an umbrella policy . If I did own a car and a house I probably would take one out .
Sorry to hear about this happening to you . You should file a lawsuit in small claims court and get a judgement . Unfortunately , you are probably one of many creditors , and are unlikely to get much , if any , money back .
What is a good bank to use for storing my pay ? Preferrably one that has free student accounts . Can I save money from my paychecks directly to a Canadian bank Otherwise , can I connect my bank account to my Canadian account online ? Any ( almost ... ) bank in the US has free college checking accounts . If the bank you entered does n't - exit , and step into the one next door which most likely will . The big names - Wells Fargo , Bank Of America , Chase , Bank of the West , Union Bank , Citi etc - all have it . Also , check your local credit union . Do I need any ID to open a bank account ? I have Canadian citizenship and a J-1 visa Bring your passport and a student card/driving license ( usually 2 ID 's required ) . What form of money should I take with me ? Cash ? Should I apply for a debit card ? Can I use my Canadian credit card for purchasing anything in the states ? ( Canadian dollar is stronger than US dollar currently , so this could be to my advantage ? ) There 's some fuss going on about debit cards right now . Some big banks ( Bank of America , notably ) decided to charge fees for using it . Check it , most of the banks are not charging fees , and as far as I know none of the credit unions are charging . So same thing - if they charge fees for debit card - step out and move on to the next one down the street . Using debit card is pretty convenient , cash is useful for small amount and in places that do n't accept cards . If you 're asking about how to move money from Canada - check with your local ( Canadian ) bank about the conversion rates and fees for transfers , check cashing , ATM , card swipes , etc - and see which one is best for you . When I moved large amounts of money across the border , I chose wire transfer because it was the cheapest , but for small amounts many times during the period of your stay it may be more expensive . You can definitely use your Canadian credit/debit card in the States , you 'll be charged some fee by your credit card company , and of course the conversion rate . How much tax does I have to pay at the end of my internship ? Let 's assume one is earning $ 5,000 per month plus a one time $ 5,000 housing stipend , all before taxes . Will I be taxed again by the Canadian government ? $ 5K for internship ? Wow ... You need to talk to a tax specialist , there 's probably some treaty between the US and Canada on that , and keep in mind that the State of California taxes your income as well . What are some other tips I can use to save money in the California ? California is a very big place . If you live in SF - you 'll save a lot by using the MUNI , if your internship is in LA - consider buying an old clunker if you want to go somewhere . If you 're in SD - just enjoy the weather , you wo n't get it in Canada . You 'll probably want a " pay as you go " wireless phone plan . If your Canadian phone is unlocked GSM - you can go to any AT&amp;T or T-Mobile store and get a pre-paid SIM for free . Otherwise , get a prepaid phone at any groceries store . It will definitely be cheaper than paying roaming charges to your Canadian provider . You can look at my <URL> ( I 'm writing from California ) , I accumulated a bunch of saving tips there over the years I 'm writing it .
Yes , there has been speculation in the Australian media for a while regarding Negative Gearing and whether it should be abolished or not . It is being pursued by various interest groups including Welfare Australia and <URL> . In fact it was actually abolished ( temporarily ) by treasurer Paul Keating in 1986 . After house prices started falling and rents increasing it was reinstated again by Paul Keating in 1988 . Most politicians are too worried about the voter backlash they will face if they do abolish NG . However , I agree with <URL> that it will eventually have to be abolished , and I think this time for good or else future governments will struggle to pay for the needs of an aging population ( including pensions and health needs ) . What you have to understand however , if NG was abolished it does not mean that you can not claim costs on your property against the rent you receive on it . For example , at the moment with NG , if your annual gross rent is $ 10,000 and your total costs including depreciation is say $ 15,000 , then you can use the additional $ 5,000 in expenses against your other income and thus reduce the amount of tax you pay for that year ( if your marginal tax rate was say 30 % then you would pay $ 5,000 x 0.30 = $ 1,500 less in tax for that year ) . If instead NG was abolished , your income from the rental would be zero ( as you would deduct $ 10,000 of your expenses from the $ 10,000 gross rent ) , and the remaining $ 5,000 in expenses you would carry over to when you start actually making a positive income from your rent . If you sell the property before you start making positive income , then your carryover expenses would be added to your cost base and reduce the capital gains tax you have to pay . This could make shorter term speculation in property less favourable and many novice investors who do n't really understand the concept of NG ( and are only allured into property investing with NG due to advice from their accountant , their friends and property spruikers ) may be deterred from investing in properties in the future . Also some might see that their benefits of owning an investment property may diminish , and will ask : why should I keep this property if I have to put money in it every month but do n't get any tax benefits anymore ? These people may end up selling their investment properties . Thus you will have less demand on investment properties and a greater supply of properties on the market . This will definitely lead to a drop in property prices , for the short to medium term anyway . I think once people start to learn about other strategies regarding investment properties ( that do n't rely on NG ) , then demand and prices will pick up again . Rents may go up initially ( especially in low vacancy areas ) , as less properties will be available for rent , thus higher demand with low supply . But once again I think this will be for the short to medium term , as the higher yields ( lower prices and higher rents ) will be attractive to investors preferring positive geared properties . And once the spruikers come up with new strategies and marketing material to attract the novice investor , you will get demand and prices for properties increasing again and rents stabilising over time .
You have n't mentioned how much debt your example company has . Rarely does a company not carry any kind of debt ( credit facilities , outstanding bonds or debentures , accounts payable , etc. ) Might it owe , for instance , $ 1B in outstanding loans or bonds ? Looking at debt too is critically important if you want to conduct the kind of analysis you 're talking about . Consider that the fundamental <URL> says : or , But in your example you 're assuming the assets and equity ought to be equal , discounting the possibility of debt . Debt changes everything . You need to look at the value of the net assets of the company ( i.e. subtracting the debt ) , not just the value of its assets alone . Shareholders are residual claimants on the assets of the company , i.e. after all debt claims have been satisfied . This means the government ( taxes owed ) , the bank ( loans to repay ) , and bondholders are due their payback before determining what is leftover for the shareholders .
If you are comfortable with the risk etc , then the main thing to worry about is diversity . For some folks , picking stocks is beyond them , or they have no interest in it . But if it 's working for you , and you want to keep doing it , more power to you . If you are comfortable with the risk , you could just as well have ALL your equity position in individual stocks . I would offer only two pieces of advice in that respect . 1 ) no more than 4 % of your total in any one stock . That 's a good way to force diversity ( provided the stocks are not clustered in a very few sectors like say ' financials ' ) , and make yourself take some of the ' winnings off the table ' if a stock has done well for you . 2 ) Pay Strong attention to Taxes ! You ca n't predict most things , but you CAN predict what you 'll have to pay in taxes , it 's one of the few known quantities . Be smart and trade so you pay as little in taxes as possible 2A ) If you live someplace where taxes on Long term gains are lower than short term ( like the USA ) then try really really hard to hold ' winners ' till they are long term . Even if the price falls a little , you might be up in the net compared to paying out an extra 10 % or more in taxes on your gains . Obviously there 's a balancing act there between when you feel something is ' done ' and the time till it 's long term . . but if you 've held something for 11 months , or 11 months and 2 weeks , odds are you 'd be better off to hold till the one year point and then sell it . 2B ) Capture Losses when you have them by selling and buying a similar stock for a month or something . ( beware the wash sale rule ) to use to offset gains .
Listing on NYSE has more associated overhead costs than listing on NASDAQ . In the case of young technology companies , this makes NASDAQ a more attractive option . Perhaps the most important factor is that NYSE requires that a company has an independent compensation committee and an independent nominating committee while NASDAQ requires only that executive compensation and nominating decisions are made by a majority of independent directors . No self-respecting , would-be-instant-billionare tech entreprenuer is going to want some independent committee lording it over their pay packet . Additionally , listing on NYSE requires a company have stated guidance for corporate governance while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Similarly , NYSE requires a company have an internal audit team while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Fees on NYSE are also a bit higher than NASDAQ , but the difference is not significant . A good rundown of the pros/cons : <URL>
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
Nope that will not work . You need to be at 80 % of the appraised value . Sale price has nothing to do with it at all . When I bought in 1998 with 5 % down , I only had a reappraisal done in three years . The housing market was rising , and though I had only paid another $ 1500 to the principal , the house appraised for $ 25,000 more than when I bought it so it was no problem getting rid of it .
The value of a currency may be different depending on what you use for a ' value ' . For example , the Japanese Yen may have a different ' value ' if you are comparing it against the Euro or the US Dollar , for example . Believe it or not , the smallest unit of currency ( in terms of value of US dollars ) is the Vietnamese Dong , at a value of 0.00005 Dollars per Dong . Maybe the Zimbabwean dollar is counted differently , maybe / <URL> has a cool currency converter which allows you to compare all current world currencies against a single currency , and presents it in a chart form .
If your gross pay is $ 2000 per month and you are depositing $ 200 into the 401-K , the company sees this as a 10 % contribution . If they match 100 % up to 5 % they will contribute 5 % of the gross or $ 100 per month . It does n't matter if your contribution is pre - or post-tax and it does n't matter to the company what your tax bracket is . Also note that all of their contributions are considered pre-tax . Keep in mind that in the quoted example ignored Social Security , Medicare , state taxes , health insurance ...
For Qualified or Safe Harbor Matching/Profit Sharing they have legal requirements over 59.5 . For everything else it 's based on the plan document what is allowed . The plan document can be ( and usually is ) more restrictive than the law .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
Even though your HSA may already cover vision and dental expenses , there are two reasons you still might want to consider a Limited Purpose FSA on top of an HSA : If you anticipate enough <URL> to completely use up funds in your HSA ( and remember , annual contributions to an HSA are <URL> ) , then you can use the FSA funds for the vision &amp; dental expenses specifically , or If you want your HSA balance to accumulate for future major health expenses . HSA balances can carry over from one year to the next . Be careful : Unlike an HSA 's ability to carry over , FSAs are instead use-it-or-lose-it ... excess funds are forfeit at the end of the year . So , do n't overfund beyond anticipated expenses , or you 'll generously end up <URL> in your company 's medical plan . :-)
If your requirements are hard ( must have $ 1000/month , must have the same or bigger in capital at the end ) , stocks are a poor choice of investment . However , in many cases , people are willing to tolerate some level of risk to achieve the expected returns . You also do not mention inflation , which can take quite a lot out of your portfolio over the course of ten years . If we make some simplifying assumptions , you want to generate $ 12,000 a year . You can realistically expect the ( whole ) stock market , long term ( i.e. over time periods substantially longer than 10 years ) , to return approximately 4 - 5 % after factoring in inflation . That means an investment of $ 240,000 - $ 300,000 ( the math is simplified somewhat here ) . If you do n't care about inflation , you can up the percentage rather somewhat . According to <URL> , the S&amp;P 500 returned an average of 11.31 % from 1928 through 2010 ( not factoring in inflation ) , which would require an investment of approximately $ 106,100 . But ! This opens you up to substantial risk . The stock market may go down 30 % this year ! According to the above article , the S&amp;P returned only 3.54 % from 2001 to 2010 . Long-term , it goes up , but your investment case is really unsuited to investing in an index to the entire stock market given your requirements . You may be better suited investing primarily in stable bonds , or perhaps a mix of bonds and stocks . Alternatively , you may want to consider even more stable investments such as treasury notes . Treasury notes are all but guaranteed , but with a lousy rate of return . Heck , you could consider a GIC ( that may be Canada-only ) or even a savings account . There 's also the possibility of purchasing an annuity , though almost everyone will advise against such . Personally , I 'd go for a mutual fund which invested approximately 70 % bonds and the rest in stocks over such a time period . Something like <URL> , if you were in Canada . It substantially lowers your expected return but also lowers your risk . I ca n't honestly say what the expected return there is ; at this point , it 's returned 4 % per year ( before inflation ) , but has been around only since the beginning of 2008 . And to be clear , this is absolutely not free of risk .
Currencies are a financial asset . Real assets must have a productive capacity . That is , they must be able to produce a good or service . Currencies , in contrast , are actually liabilities of the issuing government . In the case of the US Dollar , each paper bill is marked as a " <URL> " which makes it clear that Legally , they are liabilities of the Federal Reserve Banks and obligations of the United States government .
Some features to be aware of are : Annual fee ( or lack thereof ) Payment network ( Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover/etc . ) Cash back/rewards rate ( i.e. , how much cash/rewards points you get per dollar charged ) Interest rate Foreign transaction fee Extra benefits ( e.g. , free FICO score , " purchase protection " where you can get a refund in certain circumstances , etc. ) Credit score requirements ( i.e. , how good your credit must be to obtain the card ) How you prioritize these features will depend on your specific circumstances . For instance , if your credit score is poor , you may have to choose among cards you can get with that score , and not have much choice on other dimensions . If you frequently travel abroad , a low or zero foreign transaction fee may be important ; if you never do , it probably does n't matter . If you always pay the balance in full , interest rate is less important than it is if you carry a balance . If you frequently travel by air , an airline card may be useful to you ; if you do n't , you may prefer some other kind of rewards , or cash back . Cards differ along numerous dimensions , especially in the " extra benefits " area , which is often the most difficult area to assess , because in many cases you ca n't get a full description of these extra benefits until after you get the card . A lot of the choice depends on your personal preferences ( e.g. , whether you want airline miles , rewards points of some sort , or cash back ) . Lower fees and interest rates are always better , but it 's up to you to decide if a higher fee of some sort outweighs the accompanying benefits ( e.g. , a better rewards rate ) . A useful site for finding good offers is <URL> .
<URL> says you can roll over a 401k to another 401k . <URL> says that Solo 401ks " have the same rules and requirements as any other 401 ( k ) plan " , so you should be able to roll over a past employer 401k to a solo 401k . ( You ca n't generally roll over an employer 401k while you 're still with that employer , but you say these are old 401ks so they should be okay . ) Other pages from various investment firms and financial bloggers also say it is possible to do this ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) . However <URL> on the Bogleheads wiki says that " not all Solo 401 ( k ) plans accept incoming rollovers " . So even if it 's legal for you to do the rollover , that does n't mean the company you 're using to administer your Solo 401k will actually let you do it . If Vanguard wo n't let you do it , you could shop around to other Solo 401k providers to find one that will .
end question
start question
Capital losses on early-purchased stock ?
Yes When exercising a stock option you will be buying the stock at the strike price so you will be putting up your money , if you lose that money you can declare it as a loss like any other transaction . So if the stock is worth $ 1 and you have 10 options with a strike at $ 0.50 you will spend $ 500 when you exercise your options . If you hold those shares and the company is then worth $ 0 you lost $ 500 . I have not verified my answer so this is solely from my understanding of accounting and finance . Please verify with your accountant to be sure .
I think you 're misunderstanding how tax brackets work . If you make $ 1 more and that bumps you into a higher bracket , only THAT particular dollar will be taxed at the higher tax bracket rate ... Not your entire income . Short term capital gains are treated as income . Long term capital gains have a special tax rate currently .
Two options you can try : Go to the store and ask them to refund the difference . They might not , but it does n't hurt to ask . Often stores will do this if you are within the return window because it saves them some hassle over you returning the used item and then buying a new item at the lower price . Buy the identical item again at the new price , then return it using the old receipt . I do not recommend any cheating or fraud . Please let me explain further what you might do . First , attempt # 1 above . It is very common for stores to give you a refund shortly after the purchase . Why ? Because this is an easier and better option for everyone than any of the other options . The store wants to keep its customers happy ; that is why it has the generous return policy in the first place . If the store employee does n't go for this , ( perhaps he does n't know how to properly enter this into the register ) , tell him that you would like to buy the item today at the new price and return it at the old price with your old receipt . This may not have occurred to the employee as an option , and it might help the employee figure out how to enter this transaction and give you your refund . If the store employee does n't like this , tell him that you are planning on purchasing the new item today and returning the old item tomorrow . At this point , the store employee might realize that the store is better off keeping their new item on the shelf than they are exchanging a new item for a used item , and allow you to do the second option right there . It 's possible that they wo n't go for this either . Now , if you purchase the new item , you 'll have a decision to make . You need to return one of the items with packaging using one of the receipts . If the store is logging serial numbers on the receipt , it may not be an option to return the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does not contain the serial number , I would argue that there is no fraud or cheating going on by returning the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does contain the serial number but the packaging does not , then you should be able to use the new packaging to return the old item .
Can I include any of these in the property " basis " when figuring capital gains ? Some . my closing costs ( broker fees , title company fees ) etc Closing costs that can not be expensed are added to the basis . closing costs amount paid to buyer This is essentially a discount on price , so yes - it is added to the basis . apportioned amount for year 's county taxes , month 's HOA fees etc These can not be added to the basis since these are expenses . This are not part of the property acquiring/sale costs , but part of the property maintenance/ownership costs . Since it is a vacation home - you can not deduct them ( although you may be able to deduct the county taxes on your Schedule A , if you qualify ) . Also , can I include repairs the buyer asked for as part of the contract ( new Water Heater , new electrical outlets ) ? These are also expenses . You may want to ask a professional about the new water heater , but I would argue that replacing a broken heater is not an improvement and as such is an expense . So no , not deductible at all for vacation homes ( could be for rentals ) , and you can not add them to the basis . IANAL and IANATA ( I 'm Not A Tax Adviser ) . Please consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your State to confirm .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
For an RRSP , you do not have to pay taxes on money or investments until you withdraw the money . If you do not reinvest the dividends but instead , take them out as cash , that would be withdrawing the money . For mutual funds , you would normally reinvest the dividends if holding the investment inside an RRSP . For stocks , I believe the dividends would end up sitting in the cash part of your RRSP account ( and you 'd probably use the money to buy more stocks , though would not be required to do so ) . Either way , you do not pay tax on this investment income unless you withdraw it from your RRSP . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your RRSP . You get the tax benefit from doing so . You get dividends of $ 1,000 ( hey , it was a good year ) , and use these to buy more stock . As the money never left your RRSP account , you are considered to have invested only your initial $ 10,000 . If instead , you withdraw the $ 1,000 in dividends , you are taxed on $ 1000 income . TFSA are slightly more complicated . You do n't get a tax benefit from your initial contribution , but then do not pay tax when you withdraw from the TFSA . Your investment income is still tax-free , and you are ( generally ) much more limited in how much you can contribute . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your TFSA . You get dividends of $ 1,000 , and use these to buy more stock . Your total contributions to your TFSA remains at $ 10,000 as the money never left your account . You could instead withdraw the $ 1000 from your TFSA and would not pay tax on it . In the next calendar year ( or later ) after the withdrawal , you could " repay " the $ 1000 you took out without suffering an overcontribution penalty . This makes TFSA an excellent place to park emergency funds , as you can withdraw and subsequently replace the investment while continuing to get the tax benefits on your investment income . RRSPs are better for retirement or for the home buyers plan . In general , you should not be withdrawing money from either your TFSA or RRSP , except in emergencies , when retiring , or when purchasing a home . I prefer indexed mutual funds or money market accounts for both my RRSP and TFSA rather than individual stocks , but that 's up to you .
From what I 've read : In Canada , for tax purposes , a family unit ( i.e. you , your spouse , and your dependent children ) can only claim one property as principal residence , for the purpose of claiming the principal residence capital gains exemption . So , you need to pick which property you 'll be claiming as your principal residence for tax purposes , as only one home can be designated principal residence for any given year . Therefore , I imagine that if you already have a principal residence , you would not be able to shelter another property from capital gains taxes simply by putting it in the name of your dependent minor -- ( and is that even possible ? ) I would guess that gains on the sale of that additional property would be subject to capital gains tax . Finally , if you 're talking about having your dependent minor children owning real-estate , I agree with montyloree that you ought to check with a professional -- it sounds potentially complicated .
I usually start to answer a question of this type with " Do n't Let the Tax Tail Wag the Investing Dog . " But , it seems you are specifically asking about a 12/26 sale vs a 1/2 sale . And the fiscal cliff , to clarify , is not referencing the potential market moves that might occur if no agreement is reached , but with regards to the cap gain rate potentially going from a maximum 15 % for long term ( 1 year + holding period ) to one 's normal rate , for you , maybe from 15 % to 25 % . If the difference is truly days , the sale is planned for money you need , I see no harm , and possibly a bit of gain by pulling the sale into this year . Welcome to SE , Kevin . Hope to see you here again .
Sale of a stock creates a capital gain . It can be offset with losses , up to $ 3000 more than the gains . It can be deferred when held within a retirement account . When you gift appreciated stock , the basis follows . So when I gifted my daughter 's trust shares , there was still tax due upon sale . The kiddy tax helped reduce but not eliminate it . And there was no quotes around ownership . The money is gone , her account is for college . No 1031 exchange exists for stock .
Edited in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comment and OP Tim 's additional question . To add to and clarify a little what littleadv has said , and to answer OP Tim 's next question : As far as the IRS is concerned , you have at most one Individual Retirement Account of each type ( Traditional , Roth ) though the money in each IRA can be invested with as many different custodians ( brokerages , banks , etc. ) and different investments as you like . Thus , the maximum $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for older folks ) that you can contribute each year can be split up and invested any which way you like , and when in later years you take a Required Minimum Distribution ( RMD ) from a Traditional IRA , you can get the money by selling just one of the investments , or from several investments ; all that the IRS cares is that the total amount that is distributed to you is at least as large as the RMD . An important corollary is that the balance in your IRA is the sum total of the value of all the investments that various custodians are holding for you in IRA accounts . There is no loss in an IRA until every penny has been withdrawn from every investment in your IRA and distributed to you , thus making your IRA balance zero . As long as you have a positive balance , there is no loss : everything has to come out . After the last distribution from your Roth IRA ( the one that empties your entire Roth IRA , no matter where it is invested and reduces your Roth IRA balance ( see definition above ) to zero ) , total up all the amounts that you have received as distributions from your Roth IRA . If this is less than the total amount of money you contributed to your Roth IRA ( this includes rollovers from a Traditional IRA or Roth 401k etc. , but not the earnings within the Roth IRA that you re-invested inside the Roth IRA ) , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI limit . This 2 % is not a cap ( in the sense that no more than 2 % of your AGI can be deducted in this category ) but rather a threshold : you can only deduct whatever part of your total Miscellaneous Deductions exceeds 2 % of your AGI . Not many people have Miscellaneous Deductions whose total exceeds 2 % of their AGI , and so they end up not being able to deduct anything in this category . If you ever made nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA because you were ineligible to make a deductible contribution ( income too high , pension plan coverage at work etc ) , then the sum of all these contributions is your basis in your Traditional IRA . Note that your deductible contributions , if any , are not part of the basis . The above rules apply to your basis in your Traditional IRA as well . After the last distribution from your Traditional IRA ( the one that empties all your Traditional IRA accounts and reduces your Traditional IRA balance to zero ) , total up all the distributions that you received ( do n't forget to include the nontaxable part of each distribution that represents a return of the basis ) . If the sum total is less than your basis , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI threshold . You can only deposit cash into an IRA and take a distribution in cash from an IRA . Now , as JoeTaxpayer points out , if your IRA owns stock , you can take a distribution by having the shares transferred from your IRA account in your brokerage to your personal account in the brokerage . However , the amount of the distribution , as reported by the brokerage to the IRS , is the value of the shares transferred as of the time of the transfer , ( more generally the fair market value of the property that is transferred out of the IRA ) and this is the amount you report on your income tax return . Any capital gain or loss on those shares remains inside the IRA because your basis ( in your personal account ) in the shares that came out of the IRA is the amount of the distribution . If you sell these shares at a later date , you will have a ( taxable ) gain or loss depending on whether you sold the shares for more or less than your basis . In effect , the share transfer transaction is as if you sold the shares in the IRA , took the proceeds as a cash distribution and immediately bought the same shares in your personal account , but you saved the transaction fees for the sale and the purchase and avoided paying the difference between the buying and selling price of the shares as well as any changes in these in the microseconds that would have elapsed between the execution of the sell-shares-in-Tim 's - IRA-account , distribute-cash-to-Tim , and buy-shares-in-Tim 's - personal account transactions . Of course , your broker will likely charge a fee for transferring ownership of the shares from your IRA to you . But the important point is that any capital gain or loss within the IRA can not be used to offset a gain or loss in your taxable accounts . What happens inside the IRA stays inside the IRA .
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
Profits and losses in a partnership , LLC or S-corp are always reported proportional to the share of ownership . If you have a 30 % share in a partnership , you will report 30 % of the profit ( or loss ) of the respective tax year on your personal return . If you look at Part II , section J of your K-1 , it should show your percentage of ownership in the entity . All numbers in Part III should reflect the amount of your share ( not the entity 's total amounts , which will be on Form 1065 for a partnership ) :
I once bought both preferred and common shares in a bankrupt company . It is true that those preferred shares had less potential for appreciation than the common shares . The reason is because the preferred shares were trading around $ 50 and had a face value of $ 1000 . This means that if the bankruptcy proceedings ended up finding enough assets to make the preferred shares whole , then the preferred shareholders would be paid $ 1000 per share and no more than that . So if you bought the preferred shares at $ 50 and received $ 1000 per share for them , then you made a 1900 % gain . But if the bankruptcy proceedings found enough assets to pay not just the preferred shareholders but also the common shareholders , then the common shareholders had the potential for a greater gain than the preferred shareholders . The common stock was trading around 20 cents at the time , and if enough assets were found to pay $ 10 per share to the common shareholders , then that would have been a 4900 % gain . The preferred shares were capped by their face value , but the common shares had no limit on how high they could go .
Sorry , you 're not going to like the answer . You owe capital gains tax on the original cost basis . You had an opportunity 10 days earlier to avoid this situation , but it looks like you missed that window . The article <URL> is about resident aliens , taxes , and immigration planning : Key quote : Pre Immigration tax planning generally can not be accomplished after the Residency Starting Date . To have avoided this situation , you should have sold the shares prior to becoming a tax resident . You could have immediately repurchased the shares , too , to establish a new cost basis for U.S. tax purposes . Another legal article titled <URL> has an example applicable to your situation : For example , Mr. X purchased a property many years ago and paid $ 100,000 for it . On the date he plans to become a U.S. tax resident , the property is worth $ 1,000,000 . If Mr. X does not step up the cost basis of the property before relocating to the U.S. and sell the property thereafter , his gain on the sale will be $ 900,000 . This gain will be subject to the highest U.S. income tax rate ( almost 40 % ) . However , with proper planning , Mr. X could have paid $ 0 in U.S. income taxes on the gain realized from the sale of the property .
No , sales tax is not refundable to anyone . What the merchant described to you may sound familiar because that 's what happens in countries that charge VAT . But he bluntly lied . Neither the state nor the city of New York refund the sales taxes .
Why only long term investments ? What do they care if I buy and sell shares in a company in the same year ? Simple , your actually investing when you hold it for a long term . If you hold a stock for a week or a month there is very little that can happen to change the price , in a perfect market the value of a company should stay the same from yesterday to today so long as there is no news ( a perfect market can not exist ) . When you hold a stock for a long term you really are investing in the company and saying " this company will grow " . Short term investing is mostly speculation and speculation causes securities to be incorrectly valued . So when a retail investor puts money into something like Facebook for example they can easily be burned by speculation whether its to the upside or downside . If the goal is to get me to invest my money , then why not give apply capital gains tax to my savings account at my local bank ? Or a CD account ? I believe your gains on these accounts are taxed ... Not sure at what rate . If the goal is to help the overall health of business , how does it do that ? During an IPO , the business certainly raises money , but after that I 'm just buying and selling shares with other private shareholders . Why does the government give me an incentive to do this ( and then hold onto it for at least a year ) ? There are many reasons why a company cares about its market price : A companies market cap is calculated by price * shares outstanding . A market cap is basically what the market is saying your company is worth . A company can offer more shares or sell shares they currently hold in order to raise even more capital . A company can offer shares instead of cash when buying out another company . It can pay for many things with shares . Many executives and top level employees are payed with stock options , so they defiantly want to see there price higher . these are some basic reasons but there are more and they can be more complex .
You can engage in a pair trade that involves analyzing how closely percentage wise these stocks trade tick for tick . You can bet on the ratio expanding or contracting . only slightly more information here , but maybe explained more intuitively : <URL> and here is an example : <URL>
I found the answer . I had a small misconception about capital gains taxes . It so happens that your ordinary income tax bracket is calculated by adding your capital gains to your ordinary income . So in the example I gave in the question , those hundreds of thousands of dollars of capital gains income would put you in a high tax bracket , so you would have to pay capital gains taxes based off that tax bracket ( probably 20 % for long term and 39 % for short term in the worst case scenario ) .
Many of the major indices retreated today because of this news . Why ? How do the rising budget deficits and debt relate to the stock markets ? It does seem strange that there is a correlation between government debt and the stock market . But I could see many reasons for the reaction . The downgrade by S&amp;P may make it more expensive for the government to borrow money ( i.e. higher interest rates ) . This means it becomes more expensive for the government to borrow money and the government will probably need to raise taxes to cover the cost of borrowing . Rising taxes are not good for business . Also , many banks in the US hold US government debt . Rising yields will push down the value of their holdings which in turn will reduce the value of US debt on the businesses ' balance sheets . This weakens the banks ' balance sheets . They may even start to unload US bonds . Why is there such a large emphasis on the S&amp;P rating ? I do n't know . I think they have proven they are practically <URL> . That 's just my opinion . Many , though , still think they are a credible ratings agency . What happens when the debt ceiling is reached ? Theoretically the government has to stop borrowing money once the debt ceiling is reached . If this occurs and the government does not raise the debt ceiling then the government faces three choices : Raise taxes Default on debt payments Reduce spending
Amazon will not credit any different card . They can not know that the different card number is in fact a replacement for the old one you used . Your card issuer , however , can . If receive the refund form Amazon , and can transfer it to the new card . However , you need to talk to them and ask them if and how will they do that . They may decide to apply it to the fraudulent transactions ' balance instead of giving it to you , to reduce their losses , so you need to talk to them beforehand and make sure that since the refund is for the purchase made before the card was cancelled , they will transfer it to the new card with all the rest of the information . Another option is to request a refund to your Amazon account as a gift card balance for further purchases . I know that many retail shops will gladly give you a gift card instead of the cash/credit refund , so it may be worth your while to check with Amazon if they do that too .
end question
start question
Why are bank transactions not instant ?
If you want your bank to pay $ 1 to a beneficiary Bob , then the service ( no matter how implemented ) needs to result in Bob 's bank saying to Bob " Hey , I owe you $ 1 " . The usual way how this is done consists of two parts - your bank needs to somehow tell Bob 's bank " hey guys , do us a favor and please give Bob $ 1 with a message from the sender " , and your bank needs to convince the other bank that they 'll pay for ( cover ) that . This is the main source for the delays in international payments - there are thousands of banks , and most of possible pairs have no legal contact between themselves whatsoever , no bilateral agreements , no trust and no reasonable enforcement mechanism for small claims . If I 'm Bob 's bank , then a random bank from anywhere from Switzerland to Nigeria can send me an instruction " give Bob $ 1 , we 'll make it up for you " , the SWIFT network is a common way of doing this . However , most likely I 'm going to give Bob the money only after I receive the funds somehow , which means that they have given the money to some institution I work with . For payments within a single country , it often is a centralized exchange or a central bank , and the payment speed is then determined by the details of that particular single payment network - e.g. UK Faster Payments or the various systems used in USA . For international payments , it may require a chain of multiple intermediaries ( correspondent banks ) - for example , a payment of $ 1mm from Kazakhstan to China will likely involve the Kazakhstan bank asking their main correspondent in USA ( some major bank such as Chase JPMorgan ) to give the money to the relevant chinese bank 's correspondent in USA ( say , Citi ) to then give the money to that chinese bank to then give the money to the actual recipient . Each of those steps can happen because those entities have bilateral agreements , trust and accounts with each other ; and each of those steps generally takes time and verification . If you want all payments to happen instantly , then you need all institutions to join a single binding payment system . It 's not as easy as it sounds , as it is a nightmare of jurisdiction - for example , if you 'd want me ( as Bob 's bank ) to credit Bob instantly , then the system needs to provide solid guarantees that I would get paid even if ( a ) the payer institution changes its mind , made a mistake or intentional fraud ; ( b ) the payer institution goes insolvent ; ( c ) the system provider gets insolvent . Providing such guarantees is expensive , they need to be backed by multi-billion capital , and they 're unrealistic to enforce across jurisdictions ( e.g. would an Iranian bank get recourse if some funds got blocked because of USA sanctions ) . The biggest such project as far as I know is SEPA , across most of Europe . Visa and MasterCard networks perform the same function - a merchant gets paid by the CC network even if the payer ca n't pay his CC bill or the paying bank goes insolvent .
A suitable mix of index funds IS a great option if you do n't want to spend a lot of time and effort micromanaging your money . If you find amusement in pushing numbers around , you may be able to do better . Notice : MAY . If you have multiple millions , you can hire someone of that sort to push the numbers around for you . They may do better for you . Notice : MAY . And remember that part of your additional gains have to go to pay them , which means they have to do better just to be worth having on staff in the first place . If you have more than that , there are some options available which smaller investors really ca n't get involved in . As one example : If you have enough money that you can lose $ 100K without especially noticing , you can get involved in venture capital and the like which require a large commitment AND are higher-risk but can yield higher returns . Anyone who 's dismissing index funds as " only for beginners " is being foolish . But recommending them to beginners in particular is a good thing since they let you get into the market with fairly predictable risk/benefits without needing a massive investment in education and time .
Short answer : Liquidity . Well , you have to see it from an exchange 's point of view . Every contract they put up is a liability to them . You have to allocate resources for the order book , the matching engine , the clearing , etc. . But only if the contract is actually trading they start earning ( the big ) money . Now for every new expiry they engage a long term commitment and it might take years for an option chain to be widely accepted ( and hence before they 're profitable ) . Compare the volumes and open interests of big chains versus the weeklies and you 'll find that weeklies can still be considered illiquid compared to their monthly cousins . Having said that , like many things , this is just a question of demand . If there 's a strong urge to trade July weeklies one day , there will be an option chain . But , personally I think , as long as there are the summer doldrums there will be no rush to ask for Jul and Aug chains .
The restriction is per account , not per person . For example , if two people co-own an account , they still get only 6 transactions per month , not 12 . Likewise , if you own two accounts , each one still gets 6 transactions . In any case , you should read the terms of each of your accounts to see whether your institution even cares ( i.e. imposes some sort of penalty ) when you exceed these limits .
You have tracked the non-deducted IRA money via form 8606 . Now , you have two numbers . Total balance and taxed deposits . For example - I deposited $ 5K/yr into my IRA for the last 4 years , not deducted from my income . I now have a $ 20K post tax amount , but my actual balance can be higher ( I 'd hope ) or lower . If my balance is lower , a full conversion has no tax due at all . If my balance is , say , $ 25,000 , conversions are 20 % taxable , i.e. a full conversion has $ 5K of the conversion subject to taxes , $ 20K not . A $ 10K conversion ( ready ? ) has $ 2K taxed , and my running " post-tax " balance is now $ 12K , as $ 8K was just converted . When answering questions , I struggle to balance brevity with a comprehensive answer , forgive me if I missed the mark prior to editing here .
Because Congress said so . Now , if you 're asking for the legislators ' rationale , it 's something along the lines of : We only create tax shelters when we " need " to ; otherwise we just make our deficit worse for no reason . Absent a particular need , better to just lower the tax rate in general . It 's a national priority that people be able to secure their retirements . High income earners already have secured retirement , so no further tax shelter of retirement income needed . Middle income earners need the tax shelter , both for practical help saving , and to encourage them to do so in the first place . end result ... income limit on IRA contributions . Of course , not everyone in Congress agrees with all of the above reasons . I 'm sure there are PLENTY of legislators that vehemently disagree with the idea of income limit for contributions . But like everything else , it 's the result of lots of compromises over a host of issues . But that 's the general idea that most legislators could rally around , or they wanted something else in the bill , or they wanted to provide political support to their party leader , and did n't object to this enough to fight it , so that 's what the majority approved .
Due to the issues in the Eurozone , many foreign investors were buying Swiss Francs as a hedge against a Euro devaluation . They were in effect treating the Franc like gold , silver or some other commodity with perceived intrinsic value . This causes huge problems from the Swiss , as the value of the Franc increased and their exports became more expensive for foreigners to purchase . Things were getting bad enough that the Swiss in some places were travelling to Germany to buy groceries ! To enforce this " fixing " of the Franc , the Swiss Central Bank announced that they would buy foreign currency in unlimited quantities by printing Francs . In reality , just announcing that they were going to do this was sufficient to discourage foreign investors from loading up on Francs . NPR 's Planet Money did a really good job covering this topic : <URL> <URL>
Non-retirement , non-tax-advantaged , savings/investment should be held in accounts with a level of risk and liquidity that is appropriate for the time horizon in which the funds will be needed . So , depending on your comfort with investment risk : money that you need to access within the short term ( however you define " short " , perhaps 1 year or less ) should be stored in transaction accounts ( savings/checking at a bank ) , and money that 's not needed until later ( perhaps a horizon of greater than a year ) can be used to purchase a variety of securities ( Treasury bonds , Certificates of Deposit , Stocks , Bonds , etc. ) through a non-tax-advantaged trading/brokerage account . Almost all things that you 're buying and selling through a trading/brokerage account ( i.e. securities ) are going to have some sort of penalty associated with the sale ( early withdrawal penalties on CDs , short/long-term capital gains taxes , taxes on interest gains , etc. ) There are a few things that can be bought that are tax-advantaged , like certain types of savings bonds ( e.g. municipal bonds ) , but these typically have rather poor rates of return . So the short answer is that there 's practically nothing that you can do to avoid penalties and taxes , short of making larger contributions to tax-advantaged accounts . Though in most cases , this locks that money into longer-term ( i.e. retirement ) savings . Side Note : Thinking of 401 ( k ) s and IRAs ( of various flavors ) as accounts is really the wrong perspective . Permit me an analogy : Your account ( a transaction account ( checking/savings ) , a Certificate of Deposit , a trading/brokerage account , etc. ) is an entity in and of itself , kind of like individual human being . IRAs/401 ( k ) s are a legal arrangement that confers benefits and protections unto an account ( tax-advantaged or tax-deferred growth , protection in bankruptcy/litigation , etc. ) like a Kevlar vest protects a human being from injury when shot with a gun . The 401 ( k ) / IRA designation is a " protection " around an account .
I assume you are filing US taxes because you are a US citizen , resident alien , or other " US person " . If you have a total of $ 10,000 or more in assets in non-US accounts , you are required to file FinCEN Form 114 , Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts , also known as FBAR , to report those accounts . See <URL> . Note this refers to the total balance in the account ( combined with any other accounts you may have ) ; the amount you transferred this year is not relevant . Also note that the FBAR is filed separately from your income tax return ( it does not go to the IRS ) , though if you have over $ 50,000 in offshore assets you may also have to file IRS Form 8938 . Simply reporting those accounts does not necessarily mean you will owe extra taxes . Most US taxes are based on income , not assets . According to the page linked , the maximum penalty for a " willful " failure to report such accounts is a fine of $ 100,000 or 50 % of the assets in question , whichever is greater , in addition to possible criminal sanctions . There may be other US filing requirements that I do n't know about , so you may want to consult a tax professional . I do not know anything about your filing requirements under Indian law .
I think this is off topic , but here is a stab : So these are cashless . It could be a way to smooth out the harsh reality of capitalism ( I overproduced my product , I have more capacity than I can sell ) and I can trade those good to other capitalists who similarly poorly planned production or capacity . Therefore the market for a system like is limited to businesses that do not plan well . Business that plan production or capacity to levels they can already sell for cash do not need a private system to offload goods . Alternatives to such a system include : Laying off a workforce Slowing down production until inventory matches demand Selling or moving business space Offering products or services at a discount or coupon price . ( I do n't know how many businesses are really in this over production / over capacity state . If my assumption that it is n't many is wrong , my answer is garbage . ) This is a bartering system with a brokerage . I think we have historically found that common currencies create more trade and economic activity because the value of the note in your pocket , which is the same type of note in my pocket , is common and understood . Exchange rates typically slow down trade . ( There are many other reasons to have different currency or notes on a global sale , but the exchange certainly is a hurdle to clear . ) This brokerage is essentially adding a new currency ( in a grand metaphor ) . And that new currency is only spendable on their brokerage , which is of limited use to society as a whole , assuming that society as a whole is n't a participating member of that brokerage . I ca n't really think of why this type of exchange is better than the current system we have now . I would n't invest in this as a business , or invest in this as a person looking for opportunity .
It is not delayed and if it did n't show yet - will not show on that agency 's credit report . However , you may find it on another agency 's report . There are three major agencies , and creditors do n't always check all of them ( each inquiry costs them money ) .
Under US tax laws , the dividends that a mutual fund receives from the stocks that it holds are taxable income to the mutual fund unless the dividends are distributed to to the shareholders of the mutual fund . This also applies to the net capital gains if the fund sells some of the shares it holds , but if the fund 's activities result in a net capital loss to the fund , the loss is not distributed but carried forward by the fund for offsetting capital gains in future years . Mutual funds distribute all their net income to the shareholders because retaining the income and using it to capitalize the fund reduces the gain by the income tax , paid at corporate tax rates , by the mutual fund ; and corporate tax rates are generally higher than personal income tax rates . The dividends and capital gains distributed to the share holders of the funds are taxable as dividends and capital gains respectively to the share holders , that is , the favorable tax treatment , if any , for such kinds of income is available to the shareholders of the mutual fund . Mutual funds allow their shareholders to reinvest their distributions in the fund , ( and many load funds do not charge the load on such reinvestments ) , but this reinvestment is a decision for the shareholder to make . But , regardless of whether the distribution is reinvested in the fund or taken in cash , the distribution is taxable income to the shareholder .
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
If you can not get a satisfactory answer from the company , you can contact your local office of the <URL> . They can add pressure or give advice about how to overcome any remaining hurdles if the reason for delay is legitimate . I should probably also note that these accounts have significant reporting requirements , so it is possible that the delay is indeed a legitimate one .
In general I 'd say , yeah , if you can pay cash , pay cash . If you pay cash , then by definition you pay zero interest . If you get a loan , you 'll pay interest . Most people get a loan to buy a car because they do n't have the cash . Possible reasons not to pay cash when you could : One : Technically you can pay cash , but if you did , you would have little or no reserve for emergencies . Like if the car costs , say , $ 20,000.00 , and you have $ 20,010.00 in your bank account , then technically you could afford to pay cash , but you probably should n't , because you do n't want to have just $ 10 left . What if tomorrow something comes up ? Two : Arguably , you have a place to invest money that pays more than the interest on the loan . Like say you can get a car loan for , whatever the going rate is today , say 6 % . And you know a place to invest your money that is very safe and almost guaranteed to pay 10 % . It would make sense to borrow to buy the car , invest the cash , and then withdraw money from the investment to make the payments on the car . You 'd end up 4 % ahead . There are a lot of catches to that strategy , though . The biggest is that the more the investment pays , the more likely that it is risky . If you thought the investment would pay 10 % but it ends up paying only 4 % , then you will lose money by this strategy . Also , there 's the psychological element : Many people SAY and fully INTEND to invest their money , but then find other things they want to buy and so spend it instead . If you pay cash , you 're committed .
The main reason is that you move from the linear payoff structure to a non-linear one . This is called <URL> in finance . With options you can design a payoff structure in almost any way to want it to be . For example you can say that you only want the upside but not the downside , so you buy a call option . It is obvious that this comes at a price , the option premium . Or equivalently you buy the underlying and for risk management reasons buy a put option on top of it as an insurance . The price of the put could be seen as the insurance premium . You can of course combine options in more complicated ways so that you e.g. profit as long as the underlying moves strongly enough in either direction . This is called a <URL> .
K , welcome to Money.SE . You knew enough to add good tags to the question . Now , you should search on the dozens of questions with those tags to understand ( in less than an hour ) far more than that banker knows about credit and credit scores . My advice is first , never miss a payment . Ever . The advice your father passed on to you is nonsense , plain and simple . I 'm just a few chapters shy of being able to write a book about the <URL> I 'd heard bank people give their customers . The second bit of advice is that you do n't need to pay interest to have credit cards show good payment history . i.e. if you choose to use credit cards , use them for the convenience , cash/rebates , tracking , and guarantees they can offer . Pay in full each bill . Last - use a free service , first , <URL> to get a copy of your credit report , and then a service like <URL> for a simulated FICO score and advice on how to improve it . As member @Agop has commented , <URL> ( not just for cardholders ) offers a look at your actual score , as do a number of other credit cards for members . ( By the way , I would n't be inclined to discuss this with dad . Most people take offense that you 'd believe strangers more than them . Most of the answers here are well documented with links to IRS , etc , and if not , quickly peer-reviewed . When I make a mistake , a top-rated member will correct me within a day , if not just minutes )
Yes , of course there are . In Mexico they 're called caja popular and one of the largest is <URL> . There are also microfinance institutions ( like <URL> ) but Mexico is <URL> in the world ( well over 100 % ) . For more information on lenders ( and ratings plus a really cool APR calculation tool ) visit <URL> .
is the tax applied on these high valued deposits , No tax is not applied on high value cash deposits . These are monitored and tracked . For example one deposits Rs 15 lacs cash in his bank account . This will be reported to Tax Authorities . At year end if one files a return showing income of say Rs 40 lacs and tax paid accordingly , then fine . But if the return only show say Rs 2 lacs as income , then Tax Authorities will question from where you got Rs 15 lacs . If you have a explanation , then fine . So high value transactions are monitored by Tax authorities to find out if there is some kind of tax evasion . if I deposit Rs 10 Lakhs today and if I withdraw it back after two days , should I worry ? This transaction would be reported , if there is a query and you can explain then there is no reason to worry . The interest for 2 days would be around Rs 220 , and depending on other interest you may have to pay taxes .
The shareholders have a claim on the profits , but they may prefer that claim to be exercised in ways other than dividend payments . For example , they may want the company to invest all of its profits in growth , or they may want it to buy back shares to increase the value of the remaining shares , especially since dividends are generally taxed as income while an increase in the share price is generally taxed as a capital gain , and capital gains are often taxed at a lower rate than income .
end question
start question
What are the pros and cons of buying a house using an FHA loan ?
Pros Being able to buy a house with less than 10 % down . Specifically , as little as 3.5 % . Maximum debt-to-income allowed in 41 % , which may or may not be better than what you can get at a bank . Cons Paying Mortgage insurance out the wazoo . Nobody thinks about it this way , but FHA loans are actually quite expensive because of this . You 'll pay two Mortgage insurances : 1 % one time fee at closing 1.15 % per year ongoing Plus , it 's harder to get out of down the road that regular PMI . With regular PMI , you can stop paying it when your loan to value drops below 80 % . With FHA , you a ) must have been paying for at least 5 years , and b ) it 's 78 % loan to value where " value " is the initial appraised value at closing , NOT the current value . In other words , the equity you get from your home rising in value does not count , whereas it does with regular bank PMI . I 've calculated that if you do n't make extra payments , you 'll be paying PMI for about 14 years . Note that for all practical purposes , you 'd have to get a interest rate of less than 4.85 % for your effective interest rate ( interest + pmi ) to drop below 6 % . That 's not counting the effect of that additional 1 % up front .
There may be more , but a good starting point would be the <URL> . Natural Resources Canada 's ecoENERGY Retrofit program provides financial support to implement energy-saving projects . There are different application processes for homes , commercial and institutional buildings and industrial facilities . Together we can reduce energy-related greenhouse gases and air pollution , leading to a cleaner environment for Canada . Also , there was a temporary home renovation tax credit about a year back , but that no longer exists and nothing has replaced it yet .
The term " <URL> " does n't appear to be have a single meaning . It can mean cash back at a closing , extra cash pulled out when refinancing , or an annual rebate of some sort . If you provide the requested details , of the terms of a loan near $ 500K that sports a $ 1300/mo payment , you 're likely to get some excellent advice . The article I linked suggests these are just gimmicks and I agree . I 'd focus on a normal product . Edit - in response to OP 's " over the phone " comment - When asking about a mortgage you need to know ( and we need this to answer ) - Principal - the dollar amount lent to you . Interest rate - the annual percent charged on the balance The term of the loan - In the US , 30 year fixed is a popular choice . In Canada , I understand loans run 5 years , and are then renegotiated . Very simple - After those 5 years , what is the balance on the loan ? Now , that 's the mortgage itself , Asdfg above comments to remember there are other expenses , the property tax , homeowner association , if any , PMI ( or any mortgage insurance , common for low downpayment loans ) and the one time closing costs . ( If I missed something , I hope someone will just edit into this list )
What does this mean ? This fund is not an investment company regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and is not afforded its protections . That the fund is n't a traditional open-end mutual fund , unit investment trust or closed-end fund . The <URL> as noted on Investopedia was created after the crash of 1929 to regulate these instruments . What happens if ProShare decided to delist this ETF ? I 'd presume shareholders would get the proceeds from the liquidation of the fund , though delisting is n't likely though reverse splits would be my caution as if the price gets low enough some exchanges may request companies do reverse splits that can annoy some people . Anything else you think is important to know to trade this ETF ? Yes , understand what strategy you have around trading this ETF in terms of getting in and out as it could be quite a volatile holding looking at its graph .
Check use is declining here too , but it still has some practical advantages over electronic means : It does not require the receiving party to provide any account number to the paying party ( directly or indirectly ) . The receiving party does not even have to have a bank account at all , since a check can be cashed at the bank on which its drawn . The receiving party can frequently deposit a check with no fees . For the most part businesses taking payments electronically pay for the service . Many small " mom &amp; pop " businesses do n't want to pay or can not afford to pay those fees . It works ( as in the example you gave in the question ) when electronic transactions fail , precisely because it is low-tech . Even online transactions sometimes get converted to check in the end . I can use " online bill pay " for almost any transaction ( including to pay back a friend where no real " bill " exists ) , but the bank sends a physical check to many such parties ( especially if it goes to a friend who is n't going to be registered in the bank 's system ) . It 's a matter of opinion whether the electronic transactions are " better . " I certainly find them to be more convenient in many cases , but people used to the old system still like it , and it generally works , so there 's no specific reason to kill it . For some specific purpose like paying taxes , you get slightly better treatment paying by check because most transactions are credited based on the postmark on the physical mail but get debited from your account based on when the check clears the banking system . That only buys you about a week , but for some people that week might be worth the " hassle " of writing a physical check . Relative to cash , the check is safer and creates a self-documenting transaction because the cleared check is a legal record of the transaction . ( Obviously electronic transactions also share these features . )
Here is a free way to do an estimate : Find a house in the same neighborhood that sold within the last few months or the last year . Look up on the local government website what the tax appraisal was for the house that was sold . You now have a ratio of tax appraisal to selling price . Look up the apprised value for the house you want to estimate . Use the ratio to estimate the selling price . You can use several houses in the first two steps to get a range of ratios . If you are selling or buying a house , your agent can help with this process . If you do n't have an agent yet , this is one of the key questions to ask potential agents .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
You should read into the local and Federal laws that concern these kinds of sales . Potential pitfalls that I know of ( there are probably much more ) : In many states , these " auctions " are rather random , and you ca n't chose the property you buy . Owners may repay the taxes , in which cases ( depending on the local laws ) you may have to give up the property back to the owner . You 'll have to foreclose on the property to get full ownership on it . There may be time limitations as to what and when you can do ( for example , I know that in some states you have to wait for a certain period of time before you 're allowed to foreclose , several years ) . Auctions in general mean : Many times you can not inspect the property prior to purchase . You have to pay very quickly ( and to decide very quickly ) . You will probably have to invest significantly in rehab and repairs before reselling . You might not get a title insurance
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
CD Laddering is a process of buying multiple CDs at longer terms to take advantage of better interest rates while still having liquidity . The benefit of a CD ladder is based on this assumption . Without higher rates for longer terms , I would n't ladder CDs . So , let 's assume you have $ 10,000 to invest . And let 's say you have a 12 month CD at 1 % and a 24 month CD at 2 % available to purchase . You could lock all of your money up for 2 years and buy the 24 month CD at 2 % . This is a good rate of return , but locks up your money for longer than you might otherwise have planned . The laddering approach is to buy longer term CDs over a regular interval . In this case , we could buy a 2 year CD at 2 % every 6 months . Your ladder would look like this : Jan 2011 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % Jul 2011 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % Jan 2012 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % Jul 2012 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % This gives you the 2 year rate ( 2 % ) but you are always less than 6 months until your next CD matures giving you some liquidity . When each CD matures , you then purchase another 2 year CD at the more beneficial rate . You 'll always have something maturing every 6 months . Now , if you want to start with your money immediately , you can seed your ladder by buying partial terms like this : Jan 2011 buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % buy $ 2500 18 month CD at best rate buy $ 2500 12 month CD at best rate buy $ 2500 6 month CD at best rate Jul 2011 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % with funds from 6 month CD Jan 2012 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % with funds from 12 month CD Jul 2012 - buy $ 2500 2 year CD at 2 % with funds from 18 month CD The two year time maturity time frame and the interest rates are all examples . You could have 12 CDs with one maturing every month , one maturing every quarter , etc. . The benefits of CD Laddering are that a portion of your money is never far from maturity and that your interest rate is better than it otherwise would be . The risks of CD Laddering are the same as the risks of buying CDs . If you think CDs are a good investment , CD Laddering is a good way to invest at higher rates .
The obvious advantage is turning your biggest liability into an income-generating asset . The downside are : ( 1 ) , you have to find tenants ( postings , time to show the place , credit/background check , and etc ) ( 2 ) , you have to deal with tenants ( collection of rent , repairs of things that broke by itself , complaints from neighbors , termination , and etc ) ( 3 ) , you have to deal with the repairs In many ways , it 's no different from running another ( small ) business , so it all boils down to how much time you are willing to invest and how handy you are in doing reno 's and/or small repairs around the house . For profitability/ROI analysis , you want to assume collection of 11 months of rent per year ( i.e. assume tenant does n't renew after year , so you have the worst case scenario ) and factor in all the associated expense ( be honest ) . Renting out a second property is a bit tricky as you often have to deal with a large operating expense ( i.e. mortgage ) , and renting a basement apartment is not bad financially and you will have to get used to have " strangers " downstairs .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
If you 're simply a futures speculator , then yes , it does seem like gambling . If you 're a farmer producing a few thousand bushels of wheat , futures can be a mechanism for you to hedge against certain kinds of market risk . Same if you 're running a heating oil company , etc. . I just read somewhere that the bad spring weather in South Dakota has prevented farmers from getting corn planted -- nothing is in the ground yet . This is " objective data " from which you might infer that this year 's corn harvest could be late and/or smaller than normal . So maybe if you 're a buyer for General Mills , you use corn futures to control your costs . In this case you 'd have some idea based on experience what to expect for the price of corn , what your production line requires for input , how much you can charge for finished product , etc. . These all factor in to the price you 'd be willing to pay for corn futures .
There 's a lot to consider when making the decision to buy a house . More so for a single person . Let 's start with that . Are you now in an area that you are committed to ? Or would you live anyplace ? You fall in love , and your partner has a job that has great opportunity , but in a different state . That move can cost you nearly 8 % of the home price . More if the price has fallen and you need to take the loss into account . That said , how does your current living expense compare with the expense of the home you 'd consider ? This is pretty localized . Some areas have rent that 's high compared to buying , other areas are just the opposite . I 've seen duplexes that after a downpayment would have a rent that basically buys the house for you and lets you live rent and mortgage free . If I were you , I 'd first fill in the blank , " I 'd really like a house instead of renting because _______ " If this leads you to look for a house , that 's fine . If you only answer that you always thought it was the next step in ones life at your age Or that it 's a good investment , I 'd reconsider .
The effect of making a single purchase , of size and timing described , would not cause market disequilibrium , it would only hurt you ( and your P&amp;L ) . As @littleadv said , you would be unlikely to get your order filled . There would n't be anyone to take the other side of your trade , There would n't be enough shares available at short notice , as a block . You asked about making a " sudden " purchase . Let 's say you placed the order and were willing to accept a series of partial fills e.g. in 5,000 or 10,000 share increments at a time , over a period of hours . This would be a more moderate approach . Even spread out over the span of a day , this remains unwise . You 'll alert the few market participants in that stock that you have a large interest in buying . You 'll probably drive up the price of the stock , due to basic supply and demand for available shares . You 'll create the perception of a " story " or other change in fundamentals about the company , and expectations of share price appreciation in the near future . Even if it is true , you 'll overpay , or possibly not be able to buy it at all , as existing shareholders wo n't want to sell if they think there is a chance for profit-taking . A better approach would be to buy small lots over the course of a week or month . But your transaction fees would increase . Investors make money in pink sheets and penny stocks due to increases in share price of 100 % ( on the low end ) , with a relatively small number of shares . It is n't feasible to earn speculator profits by purchasing huge blocks ( relative to number of shares outstanding ) of stock priced < $ 1.00 USD and profit from merely 25 % price increases on large volume .
Despite a fair number of views , no one besides @mbhunter answered , so I 'll gather the findings of my own research here . Hopefully , this will help others in similar situations . If you spot any errors , please let me know ! Exercising your options and taxes : If the strike price for your stock is S and the current fair market value is F , then the difference ( F - S ) is subject to taxes , even if you do n't actually sell the stock and realize that profit . Non-qualified stock options : are subject to income taxes , which roughly means you take the " profit " from ( 1 ) and add it to your income , as if it was part of your salary . This means it gets taxed at whatever tax bracket your salary + profit end up in , usually in the 10-35 % range . ISO stock options : are not subject to income taxes , but they do get counted when calculating AMT . Although most people are n't typically subject to AMT , if you make enough profit from ( 1 ) , you may be . Not sure what the rate is for AMT , but seems to be around 25 % . AMT calculation : fill out form 6251 or use software such as TurboTax ( it takes just a couple minutes using the latter ) . Selling your options : if you sell your options at price P , the difference between ( P - F ) also has tax implications . If ( P - F ) is negative - that is , you lost money - you can write it off . I believe the maximum write off is $ 3k per year . If ( P-F ) is positive - that is , you made a profit - it gets taxed . Short term capital gains tax : if you sell your options less than one year after exercising , the profit is subject to short term capital gains tax . Similar to ( 2 ) , this roughly means the profit is tacked onto your income as if it was part of your salary and depending on what bracket you end up in , gets taxed at 10-35 % . Long term capital gains tax : if you sell your options more than one year after exercising ( and two years after the options were granted ) , the profits are subject to long term capital gains tax , which is typically 15 % . Exercising options early : some companies allow you to exercise all your options early - that is , before they actually vest ( though you still wo n't be able to actually sell them until they vest ) . Advantages of exercising options early : as soon as you exercise , the " clock starts ticking " for when you get into long term capital gains territory and consequently , pay far less taxes when you sell your options . Moreover , if the fair market value is increasing , exercising sooner minimizes ( F - S ) and consequently , minimizes the " profit " that gets taxed at the relatively high rates of income/AMT taxes as described in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Exercising when F == S and waiting at least one year to sell your options keeps taxes to an absolute minimum . Disadvantages of exercising options early : to exercise your options , you must pay ( S * N ) + ( F - S ) ( N ) ( income tax or AMT rate ) where S = strike price , F = fair market value , N = number of shares . This may be a lot of money up front , especially given that you might not actually be able to sell these options for a long time . Moreover , by the time you can sell , it 's possible that the stock tanks - or perhaps the company does n't go public in the first place - at which point you 're out a lot of money .
One way to analyze the opportunity cost of using a 401K loan would be to calculate your net worth after using a 401K loan . If your net worth increases then the 401K loan would be advisable . Note that the calculations provided below do not take into account tax considerations . A net worth calculation is where you add all your assets and then subtract all your liabilities . The resulting number is your net worth . First , calculate the net worth of not taking the loan and simply paying the credit card interest . This means you only pay the interest on the credit card . In addition to the parameters identified in your question , two additional parameters will need to be considered : Cash and the market rate of return on the 401K . Scenario 1 ( only pay credit card interest ) : After 12 months all you have paid is the interest on the credit card . The 401K balance is untouched so it will hopefully grow . The balance on the credit card remains at the end of 12 months . Scenario 2 ( use 401K loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from your 401K to pay the credit card balance . You will have to pay $ 5,000 plus the 401K interest rate back into your 401K account . Use the following equation to determine when Scenario 2 increases your net worth more than scenario 1 : Thus , if your credit card interest rate is greater than the rate you can earn on your 401K then use the 401K loan to pay off the credit card balance . Another scenario that should be considered : borrow money from somewhere else to pay off the credit card balance . Scenario 3 ( external loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from somewhere besides your 401K to pay off the credit card balance . The following is used to determine if you should use an external loan over the 401K loan : This means you should use an external loan if you can obtain an interest rate less than the rate of return you can earn on your 401K . The same methodology can be used to compare Scenario 3 to Scenario 1 .
I am wondering weather it is worth it ( how taxation works in this scenario ect . ) or not and legally possible to do so ? Whether it is worth it or not is up to you . There 's nothing illegal in this , unless of course there 's a legal issue in the foreign country . The US does n't care . Re taxes - it is a bit trickier . If your lender does not provide you with form 1098 , you 'll have to report the lender 's name , address and SSN/ITIN on your tax return in order to claim a deduction . The IRS will then expect the lender to report that interest as income . This is US-sourced income and is taxed in the US despite the fact that the lender is non-resident . See <URL> for more info . If the lender does n't report the income and does n't pay the taxes - your deduction may be denied as well for double-dipping . It is easier if this is an investment . Then the deduction is not going to Schedule A , but rather as an expense to Schedule E . The IRS may still require matching , but you wo n't need to report the SSN/ITIN - just have the expense properly documented . Obviously , the best when it comes to legal issues , is to talk to an attorney licensed in the State in question . Similarly with tax questions - you should talk to a EA/CPA licensed in that State . I 'm neither .
I 've never heard of portable mortgages in the US . If you ca n't afford two mortgages , you will have to sell the first house to pay off its mortgage before you can buy the 2nd house . This is done all the time in the US . You can put your current house on the market ( advertise it for sale ) then arrange for a long closing while you arrange to buy a new house . Also , you can make an offer on a new house and include a contingency clause that you must sell your current house first . Good escrow companies are very good at managing cascading transactions like this .
end question
start question
How should I value personal use television for donation ?
<URL> says you have to use fair market value . You can not simply use a depreciated value . You should attempt to determine what people normally pay for comparable items , and be prepared to defend your determination with evidence in the event of an audit .
Here 's the <URL> for individuals ( scroll down to table 3 , Period of Limitations ) Personally , I keep everything for 7 years just to be safe . Seems like most people should be able to get away with just 3 years though .
Either get it as cash or as a balance credit . Unless there 's a specific reason to do something else , these would be the most beneficial options . Using the reward balance towards purchases reduces the rewards you 'd be getting for these purchases . Since the reward used towards the purchase is not your " money spent " , you do n't get the reward on that amount . If you use your credit card to pay the full amount and apply your reward balance to the balance on your card - you 'll get rewards in full for your purchases .
You would have to compare your backtesting to what you will be doing in real trading , and try to have the backtesting as close to your real trading as possible . Note : you may never get the backtesting to match your real trading exactly but you need to get as close as possible . The whole purpose of backtesting is to check if your trading strategies - your signals , entries and exits , and your stops - are profitable over various market conditions . As you would be using actual closes to do your real trading you should be using this to also do your backtesting . Rather than using adjusted data to get an idea of your total return from your backtesting , you can always add the value of the dividends and other corporate actions to the results from using the actual data . You may even find a way to add any dividends and other corporate action to your results automatically , i.e. any dividend amount added to your total return if the stock is held during the ex-dividend date . If you are using adjusted data in your backtesting this may affect any stops you have placed , i.e. it may cause your stop to be triggered earlier or later than in real trading . So you will need to determine how you will treat your stops in real trading . Will you adjust them when there is corporate action such as dividends ? Or will you leave them constant until actual prices have gone up ? If you will be leaving your stops constant then you should definitely be using actual data in your backtesting to better match your real trading .
You can view the donations as helping to pay for your time spent on development , so I do n't think there 's any moral or legal issue with asking for them . However you will need to pay tax on them as income , which may involve registering with HMRC as self-employed . They also wo n't be tax-deductible for the donors or eligible for gift aid , as you are n't a charity .
Depends upon where you are in the United States but I 've heard everything not tipping them in the case of a fairly straightforward move to up to $ 50 per mover if they are outstanding in terms of performance or you have an especially complex move for some reason . In the New England area the rule of thumb seems to be that you should have some sort of beverage ( i.e. water , soda , etc ) on hand to offer them while they are loading and unloading the truck or packing and then once the move is complete to tip them between $ 20 and $ 50 per person . In general though , avoid giving them a tip as a percentage of the cost of the move and give the tip directly to each person as opposed to the foreman to be split among the movers .
I think I can answer my own question now , I 've found the necessary documents through my broker 's website . An index is tracked by a replication strategy . There are grosso modo 3 different replication strategies : Full replication strategy : The fund owns all the shares and bonds that constitute the index in its portfolio . Representative sampling strategy : As the name implies , only a representative sample of the index is effectively owned by the fund , only 80 to 90 % of the most liquid assets are effectively owned in the portfolio . Synthetic replication : The fund contracts a SWAP that delivers 100 % of the performance of the underlying index . The method used by Lyxor ETF 's is the last one . So they replicate the index with a certain basket of assets and handle all the differences between the replicated basket and the replica through the SWAP contract . I could n't find how the conversion factor between index value and tracker price is decided though .
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
You 're talking about ESPP ? For ESPP it makes sense to utilize the most the company allows , i.e. : in your case - 15 % of the paycheck ( if you can afford deferring that much , I assume you can ) . When the stocks are purchased , I would sell them immediately , not hold . This way you have ~ 10 % premium as your income ( pretty much guaranteed , unless the stock falls significantly on the very same day ) , and almost no exposure . This sums up to be a nice 1.5 % yearly guaranteed bonus , on top of any other compensation . As to keeping the stocks , this depends on how much you believe in your company and expect the stocks to appreciate . Being employed and dependent on the company with your salary , I 'd avoid investing in your company , as you 're invested in it deeply as it is .
I found this on the <URL> website The PERMANENT ™ stamp , identified with the letter P in place of a value , is always accepted at the current domestic postage price . Self-adhesive PERMANENT stamps are available in booklets as well as in coils of 100 stamps . One stamp can be used to mail a letter anywhere in Canada that weighs up to 30 grams or more postage can be added to mail larger letters , parcels or to send mail internationally . I will assume that means that when the " P " stamp is used as part of postage it takes on the value of the current domestic postage price .
I 'd answer it this way : What do you want to do ? I 'd say any amount is acceptable from as low as $ 100 . When you look at the specific " tree " of investing paying $ 5 for a $ 100 seems unacceptable . However when observing the " forest " what does it matter if you " waste " $ 5 on a commission ? Your friends ( and maybe you ) probably waste more than $ 5 multiple times per day . For them buying a latte might empower them , if buying another share of HD , for a similar cost , empowers you than do it . In the end who will be better off ? Studies show that the more important part of building a significant investment portfolio is actually doing it . Rate of return and the cost of investing pales in comparison to actually doing it . How many of your peers are doing similar things ? You are probably in very rare company . If it makes you happy , it is a wonderful way to spend your money .
There are certain companies that will let you pay a flat fee per month instead of billing you for consumption . You should call your providers and ask them if they have such an option available ; this way budgeting will be easy . :)
You will pay at your top marginal rate in general , but there are a couple of other factors that may add to the tax : This additional income may bump you into the next tax bracket , in which case you 'll pay a higher marginal rate on the portion that falls into that next higher bracket . You probably have to pay self-employment tax in addition , which will mean " both halves " of your social security and medicare . ( For people with " regular " jobs getting a W-2 , the employer pays SS and Medicare as a payroll tax in addition to what they withhold from your paycheck . ) If you 're sufficiently underpaid on your tax , then you may have to pay some interest in addition to just the tax . Without knowing too much about your situation , 46 % does n't sound crazy since you said you 're in the 25 % bracket and the combined rate for SS and Medicare is 15.3 % , which already puts you around 40.3 % just based on my bullet # 2 above . Your software should have generated Schedule C on your return . You should be able to track some of these numbers more precisely there .
I would say a diversified conservative balanced fund ( perhaps 80 % bonds , the rest equities ) . This historically keeps up with inflation , though in the short term it can definitely fluctuate downward some years . The more diversification the better , say into international stocks and other major asset classes . The 80/20 average historical annual return is 6.7 % nominal ( before inflation ) , which is higher than historical inflation : <URL> Bonds alone would generally be less reliable than bonds plus 10-20 % in stocks . You may be able to go as much as 90 % bonds if the goal is absolute minimum risk . I 've read in more than one place that 100 % bonds averages lower returns with more risk than 90/10 , so 100 % bonds would be an inferior option historically , compared to diversifying just a bit into equities . You could argue that TIPS ( or other inflation-indexed bonds ) are the guaranteed way to beat inflation with no additional risk . I would personally feel more comfortable with a balanced portfolio diversified across thousands of stocks and bonds around the world : TIPS are country-specific , and however remote the chances , there are probably risk factors unique to US government securities while I do n't subscribe to conspiracy theories about the consumer price index ( CPI ) , it is in some ways arbitrary and its definition of inflation may not line up with your actual expenses ; a diversified portfolio avoids " inflation definition risk " a bit more perhaps because an 80/20 portfolio does a little better than inflation historically , maybe you have some more margin for error You can always keep some money in cash or near-cash ( very short-term bonds ) , in addition to the balanced portfolio , to lower risk and returns down to the desired point . Commodities and metals often come up when talking about inflation risk ; the problem is that these are so volatile , you 'll have big timing problems - if you buy at a wrong ( too high ) time you could wait decades to get your principal back . So I do n't think these make sense for the goal you described . See also <URL>
It will impact your credit score , but typically very minor - paying one bill late is much worse . It reduces your average credit card age , which is a minor contributor to credit score . The disadvantages are : you are giving them your address and name , and implicit permission to spam you with mail , email , etc. for the next years ; you can only do it once ( it 's typically in the fine print - new customers only ) it 's a lot of form filling and hassle Yes , you make 50 $ , and it 's not a bad hourly rate . But except if you really need that money , it 's not worth the effort .
You question is very hard to answer as it is tough to put a value on how much bad your added investment in evil companies would cause and also how much value the charities add . However , there has been a bunch of really good work on socially responsible investing in general . <URL> might be too technical for some but the conclusion section is very readable and clear . The big worry about socially responsible investing from a financial standpoint is that it will lower returns in the long run . The paper above and others show fairly clearly that as long as you only exclude a few classes of stocks and still have a fairly broad base that the expected returns are similar . The main issue though is some socially responsible funds have much higher fees . So the usual advice applies , do your research to make sure your investments are well diversified and have low fees . As long as the index is fairly broad you can consider the difference between the fees on the socially responsible index and investing in a more common index as the long run cost . Then you can balance that cost and having more money for charity against the benefits of not investing in evil companies .
A good general rule is to save 15 % of your income for retirement . As for where you put it : Put as much as it takes to maximize your employer match into your 401 ( k ) , but no more . The employer match is free money , and you ca n't beat free money If you still have n't put in 15 % , put the rest into a Roth IRA . By historical standards , taxes are pretty low today . They are almost certainly going to be higher in retirement , especially since you likely wo n't have the deductions in retirement that you may have now ( kids , mortgage , etc ) . If you 've maxed our the allowed contribution for your Roth and still have n't saved 15 % , put the rest in a traditional IRA .
I 'm not a tax professional , and this is something you should get a professional advice on . But having said that , I think you answered your own question . It is explained in that Forbes article , that the donated value is in fact the value of the house you 're going to demolish . So in fact you did n't donate anything but rather got help in demolishing a structure you would have demolished anyway . I believe ( as a non-professional ) it would be difficult to claim a deduction in such a scenario , and the courts ruled accordingly in <URL> . It is held there that the deduction value did n't exceed the value of the services provided ( burning down the house ) . Held , further : Ps did not make a charitable contribution within the meaning of sec . 170 ( c ) as a result of their donation of the house because they received a substantial benefit in exchange for the donation and have failed to show that the value of the property donated exceeded the value of the benefit received Also , keep in mind that you do n't donate the land or the structure , only the right to burn it down . Which also invalidates the deduction , as has been ruled in <URL> . Held , further , Ps donated only the use of the Vienna property and the house to FCFRD , a partial interest in the property , and pursuant to I.R.C. sec . 170 ( f ) ( 3 ) are not entitled to the $ 92,865 noncash charitable contribution deduction claimed on their 2006 income tax return under I.R.C. sec . 170 ( a ) . Bottom line - get a proper tax and legal advice from a professional , but to me it looks like that ship has sailed , and the deduction will no longer be allowed .
I hope people do n't see this as being facetious but invest some time in learning to do that with Excel . Most financial information websites ( Yahoo , MSN , etc. ) will allow you to extract all the data you need into excel . This way you can learn to do analysis with something that is n't a " black box " ( as to mean you do n't know the exact equations behind the outputs ) whereas with excel you can delve into and really understand the equations behind the numbers you are looking at . If you use Bloomberg it does all that for you but if you are just starting out you may not truly understand what it means and how everything is connected . If you create the same with excel you have no choice but to deeply understand because you built it from scratch ! I 'm certian there are plenty of tutorials to help you out there as every analyst who has worked in finance since the advent of excel has had to create these at one time or another . Good luck !
A 15 % discount is a 17.6 % return . ( 100/85 = 1.176 ) . For a holding period that 's an average 15.5 days , a half month . It would be silly to compound this over a year as the numbers are limited . The safest way to do this is to sell the day you are permitted . In effect , you are betting , 12 times a year , that the stock wo n't drop 15 % in 3 days . You can pull data going back decades , or as long as your company has been public , and run a spreadsheet to see how many times , if at all , the stock has seen this kind of volatility over 3 day periods . Even for volatile stocks , a 15 % move is pretty large , you 're likely to find your stock doing this less than once per year . It 's also safest to not accumulate too many shares of your company for multiple reasons , having to do with risk spreading , diversification , etc. . 2 additional points - the Brexit just caused the S&amp;P to drop 4 % over the last 3 days trading . This was a major world event , but , on average we are down 4 % . One would have to be very unlucky to have their stock drop 15 % over the specific 3 days we are discussing . The dollars at risk are minimal . Say you make $ 120K/yr . $ 10K/month . 15 % of this is $ 1500 and you are buying $ 1765 worth of stock . The gains , on average are expected to be $ 265/mo . Does n't seem like too much , but it 's $ 3180 over a years ' time . $ 3180 in profit for a maximum $ 1500 at risk at any month 's cycle .
end question
start question
Why is stock dilution legal ?
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
100 ounces is the size of one contract , but the quote is in dollars per ounce . See the spec on <URL> and <URL> . Thus , one futures contract is for 100 ounces of gold , at 100 * $ 1174 = $ 117,400 . Similarly , for <URL> , the contract size is 1,000 barrels , but it 's quoted in dollars per barrel . I do n't know why FT shows the contract size for gold , and not for crude oil . The contract size and the amount per quote differ because the the contract size is going to be what makes sense to actually trade . 100 oz is a standard size for gold bars , and people do n't want to take delivery of a single ounce . It 's easier for people to talk about the price of an ounce of gold though , as opposed to an arbitrary amount like 100 oz , which is really more of a detail . You see similar things for options , where it 's quoted as the price per underlying share , but a contract is 100 options . So if a call option trades at $ 2.50 , buying one contract costs $ 250 , and is for 100 shares .
Say we have stock XYZ that costs $ 50 this second . It does n't cost XYZ this second . The market price only reflects the last price at which the security traded . It does n't mean that if you 'll get that price when you place an order . The price you get if/when your order is filled is determined by the bid/ask spreads . Why would people sell below the current price , and not within the range of the bid/ask ? Someone may be willing to sell at an <URL> of $ 47 simply because that 's the best price they think they can sell the security for . Keep in mind that the " someone " may be a computer that determined that $ 47 is a reasonable ask price . Remember that bid/ask spreads are n't fixed , and there can be multiple bid/ask prices in a market at any given time . Your buy order was filled because at the time , someone else in the market was willing to sell you the security for the same price as your <URL> . Your respective buy/sell orders were matched based on their price ( and volume , conditional orders , etc ) . These questions may be helpful to you as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , you say you 're a day trader . If that 's so , I strongly recommend getting a better grasp on the basics of market mechanics before committing any more capital . Trading without understanding how markets work at the most fundamental levels is a recipe for disaster .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
While a lot of trading is executed by computers , a substantial amount is still done at the behest of humans . Brokers managing accounts , Portfolio Managers , and Managers of Mutual Funds doing stock picks etc. . Those folks are still initiating a very large number of the trades ( or at least one side of a trade ) . And those humans do n't work 7 days a week . it 's not just computers talking to computers at the behest of other computers . And even a lot of places that use computers to create models and such , there are still humans in the loop to ensure that the computers are not ordering something stupid to be done . I personally worked for a firm that managed nearly $ 20Billion in stock portfolios . The portfolios were designed to track indexes , or a mix of indexes and actively managed funds , but with the addition of managing for tax efficiency . A lot of complex math and complicated ' solver ' programs that figured out each day what if anything to trade in each portfolio . Despite all those computers , humans still reviewed all the trades to be sure they made sense . And those humans only worked 5 days a week .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
Any time a large order it placed for Buy , the sell side starts increasing as the demand of Buy has gone up . [ Vice Versa is also true ] . Once this orders gets fulfilled , the demand drops and hence the Sell price should also lower . Depending on how much was the demand / supply without your order , the price fluctuation would vary . For examply if before your order , for this particular share the normal volume is around 100 's of shares then you order would spike things up quite a bit . However if for other share the normal volume is around 100000 's then your order would not have much impact .
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I got notice from Charles Schwab that the forms were n't being mailed out until the middle of February because , for some reason , the forms were likely to change and rather than mail them out twice , they mailed them out once . Perhaps some state tax laws took effect ( such as two Oregon bills regarding tax rates for higher incomes ) and they waited on that . While I have n't gotten my forms mailed to me yet , I did go online and get the electronic copies that allowed me to finish my taxes already .
After the initial public offering , the company can raise money by selling more stock ( equity financing ) or selling debt ( e.g. borrowing money ) . If a company 's stock price is high , they can raise money with equity financing on more favorable terms . When companies raise money with equity financing , they create new shares and dilute the existing shareholders , so the number of shares outstanding is not fixed . Companies can also return money to shareholders by buying their own equity , and this is called a <URL> . It 's best for companies to repurchase their shared when their stock price is low , but " <URL> " The management of a company typically likes a rising stock price , so their stock options are more valuable and they can justify bigger pay packages .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
From <URL> , A stock split is usually done by companies that have seen their share price increase to levels that are either too high or are beyond the price levels of similar companies in their sector . The primary motive is to make shares seem more affordable to small investors even though the underlying value of the company has not changed . From <URL> , It is often claimed that stock splits , in and of themselves , lead to higher stock prices ; research , however , does not bear this out . What is true is that stock splits are usually initiated after a large run up in share price ... stock splits do increase the liquidity of a stock ; there are more buyers and sellers for 10 shares at $ 10 than 1 share at $ 100 . Some companies have the opposite strategy : by refusing to split the stock and keeping the price high , they reduce trading volume . Berkshire Hathaway is a notable example of this . Something more to munch on , <URL> .
If by " Company Stock " you mean " stock in the company I work for " then absolutely sell your stock . It is too big a risk to have your investments tied into the same company that is also providing your salary . If you mean stock as in general investments , I like to look at it this way . If you have $ 25,000 stock and a $ 100,000 mortgage you ask this question : If I had a $ 75,000 mortgage would I borrow an additional $ 25,000 against my house to invest in the stock market ? If the answer is yes , then you are taking a risk consistent with your tolerance for risk . If you answer no , then your tolerance for risk says you 'd be happier paying down your mortgage .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
You can engage in a pair trade that involves analyzing how closely percentage wise these stocks trade tick for tick . You can bet on the ratio expanding or contracting . only slightly more information here , but maybe explained more intuitively : <URL> and here is an example : <URL>
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
I think George 's answer explains fairly well why the brokerages do n't allow this - it 's not an exchange rule , it 's just that the brokerage has to have the shares to lend , and normally those shares come from people 's margin , which is impossible on a non-marginable stock . To address the question of what the alternatives are , on popular stocks like SIRI , a deep In-The-Money put is a fairly accurate emulation of an actual short interest . If you look at the <URL> you will see that a $ 3 ( or higher ) put has a delta of - $ 1 , which is the same delta as an actual short share . You also do n't have to worry about problems like margin calls when buying options . The only thing you have to worry about is the expiration date , which is n't generally a major issue if you 're buying in-the-money options ... unless you 're very wrong about the direction of the stock , in which case you could lose everything , but that 's always a risk with penny stocks no matter how you trade them . At least with a put option , the maximum amount you can lose is whatever you spent on the contract . With a short sale , a bull rush on the stock could potentially wipe out your entire margin . That 's why , when betting on downward motion in a microcap or penny stock , I actually prefer to use options . Just be aware that option contracts can generally only move in increments of $ 0.05 , and that your brokerage will probably impose a bid-ask spread of up to $ 0.10 , so the share price has to move down at least 10 cents ( or 10 % on a roughly $ 1 stock like SIRI ) for you to just break even ; definitely do n't attempt to use this as a day-trading tool and go for longer expirations if you can .
One thing is the price of the option , and another is the strike of the option . The price of the option is the price to sell or buy the option . The strike of the option is the price that you can exercise the option at expiration , meaning the price you can buy your wife 's company stocks using the option . Is $ 2 the strike or the price of the option ? If that is the case then that should be the price that you can buy your wife 's company stock ... If the stock is at $ 10 then the price of the option itself is $ 10 - $ 2 = $ 8 , i.e. you wo n't be charged $ 8 but you should be paid $ 8 per option . Of course the previous only holds if the strike is $ 2 ... which is the info I am missing .
end question
start question
Can I use an HSA as investment vehicle by overcontributing temporarily ?
What you are describing does n't work . The reason is that when you do an excess contribution withdrawal , your HSA custodian will also send you any earnings from your excess contributions . These earnings will be listed in Box 2 of the <URL> that they give you at the end of the year , and you will need to add them to your income as " other income " on your 1040 at tax time ( line 21 on 2015 's 1040 ) . If , for some reason , you do not remove the earnings on your excess contributions from your HSA and add them to your taxable income , you will owe a 6 % excise tax/penalty on your excess contributions . See Publication 969 , Health Savings Accounts , <URL> for more details . In addition , most HSA custodians will not allow you to deposit more than the family contribution limit ( $ 6750 , or $ 7750 if you are age 55 + ) in a year . And some HSA custodians charge an excess contribution return fee .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
A fee note is the same as an invoice . There are VAT reasons behind issuing a fee note , but from the receivers perspective , it still needs to be paid in the same way as you 'd pay an invoice .
You can , but for incomes less than $ 58K you can also use <URL> . I 'm guessing IRS assumed that people would prefer to use software if they can , rather than raw forms . I would assume the same .
Yes , you will need to deposit the funds into your HSA , then withdraw them to reimburse yourself for the expenses . The tax deduction comes when you contribute ( deposit ) to your HSA . If you do not deposit the money there , you will not be able to claim the deduction . Your HSA provider reports the amount of your contributions to the IRS , so the amount you say you contribute to your HSA on your tax return has to match what your HSA provider reports . When you deposit the money to your HSA , you need to explicitly tell your provider that the contribution is for tax year 2014 . The reason is that you want to make sure that they report the amount of your 2014 contributions to the IRS correctly . After you 've deposited the amount into your HSA , you can withdraw it to reimburse yourself for an eligible medical expense . In order to be eligible , it needs to be an expense that was incurred while you had the HSA in place . If you had your HSA account in place before you paid the expense , no problem . But if you set up the HSA account after you paid for the expense , you might be out of luck . The distribution ( withdrawal ) will be a part of tax year 2015 , and you 'll see this amount included as part of the gross distributions on your 1099-SA form next year . When I first set up my HSA , I did n't have any extra money to fund the HSA , so I handled it just like you are talking about . I would wait until I had a medical bill , then deposit the amount I needed into my HSA and withdraw it back out to pay the bill .
Your contributions must come from " compensation " . Quoting <URL> on IRAs , " Generally , compensation is what you earn from working . " So it is unlikely that your stock sale proceeds , if they 're your sole source of income , can be used to fund your IRA . If you do have W-2 income , or self employment income , you can use the proceeds of a stock sale to fund an IRA . The IRS does n't care where the exact dollars that go into the IRA come from , only that you earned ( from working ) at least as much as you contributed .
Probably none . First , you need to itemize . But then , this deduction is subject to a 2 % floor , i.e it 's only deductible to the extent it exceeds 2 % of your AGI . If these fees were on the high side , some might have exceeded this floor . And in that case you can use the entire amount spent when you start the math . Update - David , I 'm sorry if my answer appeared curt . All expenses you paid in 2014 are part of the math when doing your return due 4/15/15 , even though the work was for older returns the tax guy worked on . The rest of my answer should be that you need to study where on Schedule A this flows to - There are a few things that add up for this category . It then gets grouped and only what exceeds 2 % of your AGI flows to the Schedule A numbers . For those already in the black via line 21 , the result is all cost flows to the deduction . Without that , there 's a good chance little to none will be helpful to you .
The purpose of the transfer determines the taxability . If this is happening to frequent , it is advisable to keep proper records of the transaction so that if there is an enquiry from Tax authorities you can explain . Unless you explain the why the transfer is being made , I have put out some broad categories . Transfering the Money to you as Loan with expectation of repayment in future date . This is not taxable to you . When you transfer back the money to your friend the interest will be taxed to him as income . Proper paperwork required to be maintained with you to answer any queries to Tax Authorities . Transfering the Moeny to you as repayment of Loan . I.E. Your friend had borrowed from you and is repaying you . The interest is taxable to you . Proper paperwork required to be maintained with you to answer any queries to Tax Authorities . Sharing of Expense . i.e. you have both out of dinner / movie / renting an apartment and he is transfering his share of Expenses . No Tax obligation . Paper work required to justify that it was an shared expense . Receipts etc. . In absence of any of the above , the transfer will be termed as GIFT from you friend . There is an yearly limit of Rs 50,000 / - as Gift from Unrelated persons . Anything above that would have Gift Tax As Victor pointed out in comment , if its in return for work , then its definately your income and taxable .
Yes , you can pay for your wife 's medical bills out of your HSA . From IRS <URL> , Distributions from an HSA : Qualified medical expenses are those incurred by the following persons . You and your spouse . All dependents you claim on your tax return . Any person you could have claimed as a dependent on your return except that : a . The person filed a joint return , b . The person had gross income of $ 3,950 or more , or c. You , or your spouse if filing jointly , could be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's 2014 return .
I think the relevant document is <URL> , in the section " Distributions from an HSA " several subheadings down : Additional Tax There is an additional 10 % tax on the part of your distributions not used for qualified medical expenses . which is followed by : Exceptions . There is no additional tax on distributions made after the date you are disabled , reach age 65 , or die . So your understanding is mostly correct -- the age threshold is 65 , not 59.5 . Under current rules . The rules could change between now and whenever you reach 65 . With that said , I 'm mostly just leaving money in my HSA -- that account has the highest rate of return of any ( insured ) account I have , and like you say it is basically another way to get a deduction and save for later . I could n't find any info on rolling over to a Roth or an IRA , except that you ca n't do it . ( Though none of the sources I found mention a reference to IRS docs . ) Edit : I should also mention that , after 65 , distributions from the HSA to pay insurance premiums are qualified ( tax free ) . See the link to Pub 969 above . So if you are careful about how you spend the HSA money in retirement , it can be used tax free . ( I.e. spend out of the HSA to cover medical expenses , then draw down your IRAs for non-qualified spending . )
The FSA can only pay for expenses incurred after it was open . This also applies in case of a mid-year change in election ( such as due to marriage , divorce , child birth , etc. ) For example , according to <URL> : You can only be reimbursed for qualifying expenses , from the election that was in place at the time the expense was incurred . So , say you had $ 500 available from January to June , then on July 1 had a qualifying event , you then elected $ 2000 . You can be reimbursed for up to $ 500 in expenses incurred prior to July 1 , and then an additional $ 1500 in expenses incurred after ( up to $ 2000 if you did n't use your full $ 500 ) . More specifically , from the <URL> : Generally , distributions from a health FSA must be paid only to reimburse you for qualified medical expenses you incurred during the period of coverage . -- The HSA question is more complicated . I would talk to a tax accountant , or at minimum your benefits coordinator . Also read the publication I linked above , the first part is about HSAs . The short answer to your specific question : stop contributing to the HSA , unless you were contributing well under the limit of the HSA . If you know your limit , and you know you 're under it , you can continue contributing until April 15 of next year : If you fail to be an eligible individual during 2013 , you can still make contributions , up until April 15 , 2014 , for the months you were an eligible individual . The general rule is you can contribute up to . So , if you changed jobs Oct 1 , and you 're single , then you could contribute , or just over $ 2400 in total for the year . If you 've contributed less than that to date , you may continue contributing up to that amount - but again , contact your benefits coordinator or preferably a tax accountant , as the rules can be complicated . You definitely can not deduct any expenses from the account that you incur after you are no longer eligible , and the rules on distributions are pretty complicated - and if you get it wrong , you may owe a 10 % penalty on top of the tax you would normally owe , so there is significant incentive not to get it wrong .
No , as a director normally you ca n't . As a director of a Limited company , all those payments should be accounted for as directors ' remuneration and have been subject to PAYE and NIC , even if you are self-employed . Currently there is no legislation which prevents a director from receiving self-employment income from a company in which he is a director , however the default position of HMRC 's is that all the payments derived from the directorship are subject to PAYE . In other words , it 's possible only invoice from an unconnected business or in a consultancy role that 's not directly related to the trade of business . But it really depends on the circumstances and the contracts in place . Sources : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> at AW More sources : If a person does other work that 's not related to being a director , they may have an employment contract and get employment rights . Source : <URL> In principle , it is possible for an employee or office holder to tender for work with their employer outside their normal duties , in circumstances where that individual will not be providing service as an employee or office holder but as a self-employed contractor . Where there is any doubt about whether service is provided constitutes employment or self-employment , see the Employment Status Manual ( ESM ) . Source : <URL> at HMRC
You are not allowed to take a retirement account and move it into the beneficiary 's name , an inherited IRA is titled as " Deceased Name for the benefit of Beneficiary name " . Breaking the correct titling makes the entire account non-retirement and tax is due on the funds that were not yet taxed . If I am mistaken and titling remained correct , RMDs are not avoidable , they are taken based on your Wife 's life expectancy from a table in <URL> , and the divisor is reduced by one each year . Page 86 is " table 1 " and provides the divisor to use . For example , at age 50 , your wife 's divisor is 34.2 ( or 2.924 % ) . Each year it decrements by 1 , you do not go back to the table each year . It sounds like the seller 's recommendation bordered on misconduct , and the firm behind him can be made to release you from this and refund the likely high fees he took from you . Without more details , it 's tough to say . I wish you well . The only beneficiary that just takes possession into his/her own account is the surviving spouse . Others have to do what I first described .
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
HSA may be used for reimbursement of qualified medical expenses outside the USA , however the problem you are going to face is that having an HSA at all requires you to have a resident status in the US . If you relocate permanently outside the US , you lose that status . You may get away with it , but in my opinion the best option is to cash out your HSA and pay the taxes and penalties before you leave , otherwise you risk losing the money all together or having it tied up in limbo for a period of time .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
My W-2 included additional info so that it was easier to understand : It explained the numbers for Box 1 ( wages tips an other compensation , Box 3 ( Social security wages ) , Box 5 Medicare wages , Box 16 State wages : For box 1 it was Gross pay Less 401K ( D-Box 12 ) Less Medical FSA Less other Cafe Less Cafe 125 HSA ( W-box 12 ) It included the numbers for each cell . Note the number in W Box 12 for the HSA was my contibution plus their contribution . But the number in the calculation of Box 1 was only my contribution .
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
There are two umbrellas in investing : and . Passive management is based on the idea " you ca n't beat the market . " Passive investors believe in the efficient markets hypothesis : " the market interprets all information about an asset , so price is equal to underlying value " . Another idea in this field is that there 's a minimum risk associated with any given return . You ca n't increase your expected return without assuming more risk . To see it graphically : As expected return goes up , so does risk . If we stat with a portfolio of 100 bonds , then remove 30 bonds and add 30 stocks , we 'll have a portfolio that 's 70 % bonds/30 % stocks . Turns out that this makes expected return increase and lower risk because of diversification . Markowitz showed that you could reduce the overall portfolio risk by adding a riskier , but uncorrelated , asset ! Basically , if your entire portfolio is US stocks , then you 'll lose money whenever US stocks fall . But , if you have half US stocks , quarter US bonds , and quarter European stocks , then even if the US market tanks , half your portfolio will be unaffected ( theoretically ) . Adding different types of uncorrelated assets can reduce risk and increase returns . Let 's tie this all together . We should get a variety of stocks to reduce our risk , and we ca n't beat the market by security selection . Ideally , we ought to buy nearly every stock in the market so that So what 's our solution ? Why , the exchange traded fund ( ETF ) of course ! An ETF is basically a bunch of stocks that trade as a single ticker symbol . For example , consider the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ( SPY ) . You can purchase a unit of " SPY " and it will move up/down proportional to the S&amp;P 500 . This gives us diversification among stocks , to prevent any significant downside while limiting our upside . How do we diversify across asset classes ? Luckily , we can purchase ETF 's for almost anything : Gold ETF 's ( commodities ) , US bond ETF 's ( domestic bonds ) , International stock ETFs , Intl. bonds ETFs , etc. . So , we can buy ETF 's to give us exposure to various asset classes , thus diversifying among asset classes and within each asset class . Determining what % of our portfolio to put in any given asset class is known as asset allocation and some people say up to 90 % of portfolio returns can be determined by asset allocation . That pretty much sums up passive management . The idea is to buy ETFs across asset classes and just leave them . You can readjust your portfolio holdings periodically , but otherwise there is no rapid trading . Now the other umbrella is active management . The unifying idea is that you can generate superior returns by stock selection . Active investors reject the idea of efficient markets . A classic and time proven strategy is value investing . After the collapse of 07/08 , bank stocks greatly fell , but all the other stocks fell with them . Some stocks worth $ 100 were selling for $ 50 . Value investors quickly snapped up these stocks because they had a margin of safety . Even if the stock did n't go back to 100 , it could go up to $ 80 or $ 90 eventually , and investors profit . The main ideas in value investing are : have a big margin of safety , look at a company 's fundamentals ( earnings , book value , etc ) , and see if it promises adequate return . Coke has tremendous earnings and it 's a great company , but it 's so large that you 're never going to make 20 % profits on it annually , because it just ca n't grow that fast . Another field of active investing is technical analysis . As opposed to the " fundamental analysis " of value investing , technical analysis involves looking at charts for patterns , and looking at stock history to determine future paths . Things like resistance points and trend lines also play a role . Technical analysts believe that stocks are just ticker symbols and that you can use guidelines to predict where they 're headed . Another type of active investing is day trading . This basically involves buying and selling stocks every hour or every minute or just at a rapid pace . Day traders do n't hold onto investments for very long , and are always trying to predict the market in the short term and take advantage of it . Many individual investors are also day traders . The other question is , how do you choose a strategy ? The short answer is : pick whatever works for you . The long answer is : Day trading and technical analysis is a lot of luck . If there are consistent systems for trading , then people are keeping them secret , because there is no book that you can read and become a consistent trader . High frequency trading ( HFT ) is an area where people basically mint money , but it s more technology and less actual investing , and would not be categorized as day trading . Benjamin Graham once said : In the short run , the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a weighing machine . Value investing will work because there 's evidence for it throughout history , but you need a certain temperament for it and most people do n't have that
end question
start question
How are the shares rounded off when companies merge ?
They generally issue the extra fraction as cash . When they do a reverse split this is the way to get rid of small investors . They take 1000 shares pre-split and turn it into 1 share post split . If you own less than a share you are given cash . If those shares are part of a larger fund ( ie in a 401K ) the fund will take care of this because each member can own fractional shares . The documentation for the merger should discuss the fractional shares and how they handled and when any cash will be received .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
Credit utilization ( and therefore , your credit score ) is n't impacted by one 's mortgage . I have a current mortgage and saw a zero utilization the one month that I paid my credit cards in full just before the bill was cut . What will change is your borrowing ability . Your debt to income will drop and the payment you used to make will be available to service a future debt if you wish . Note - obviously , a regularly paid on time mortgage helps one 's score and late payments will hurt . I am addressing just the ' utilization ' portion which is what i think the OP is asking . The credit report , strangely enough , does not take income into account . The focus instead is on utilization .
I know some companies or entities have large incomes or expenses at certain times of the year , and like to close their books after these large events . For example where I work , the primary seasonal income comes after summer , so our fiscal year ends at the last days of October . This gives the accountants enough time to collect all the funds , reconcile whatever they have to , pay off whatever they have to and get working on a budget for the next year sooner than a calendar year would . There also might be tax reasons . To get all of your income at the beginning of your fiscal year , even if that is in the middle of the calendar year would allow a company to plan large deductible investments with more certainty . I am not to sure of the tax reasons .
I contacted Vanguard with this question ; they responded with : All fund accounts that hold Admiral ( tm ) Shares are reviewed for eligibility on an annual basis , typically in June . If any of your Admiral Shares fund accounts have balances below the required level at the time of this review , we will notify you by mail so that you 'll have an opportunity to increase the balance . If a fund balance subsequently remains below the required minimum , we will convert your account in that fund to Investor Shares . Conversions are not a taxable event . Your fund balance is solely determined by market value , so if the market value of your position in the fund is below the minimum threshold for Admiral shares ( which is $ 10K or $ 50K , depending on the fund ) when Vanguard reviews your account , they 'll contact you . It does n't matter if the decline in value occurred because you sold shares or because the market moved ; Vanguard will still downgrade you if you do n't top up your position . In terms of taxes , if you sell shares in a non-tax-sheltered account , you may incur capital gains and will therefore pay taxes on that amount , but Vanguard themselves wo n't charge you any fees or penalties when they downgrade you . One more note on the rest of your question . Remember that a mutual fund investment is n't as liquid as a savings account ; you 'll face a delay between selling your shares and the settlement of your funds , so in terms of liquidity , a mutual fund investment is n't a substitute for a savings account . You should always have an emergency fund that covers at least 3-6 months of living expenses set aside that is highly liquid , regardless of your other investments . Also , you 'll face much more volatility with an investment in an equity fund . For longer-term investments , this is n't necessarily a problem , but if you might need these funds for emergencies , you probably do n't want to expose yourself to the risk that when you might need the funds when their value is at a low point .
That is a pretty exclusive club and for the most part they are not interested in highly volatile companies like Apple and Google . Sure , IBM is part of the DJIA , but that is about as stalwart as you can get these days . The typical profile for a DJIA stock would be one that pays fairly predictable dividends , has been around since money was invented , and are not going anywhere unless the apocalypse really happens this year . In summary , DJIA is the boring reliable company index .
Yes . Depending on which way they are going this is known as a redemption or a creation . In fact , it 's not just the ETF company than can do this . There are other entities known as " authorized participants " who can do this at will . This is the reason that the ETF tracks the underlying basket . When it deviates , that creates an arbitrage opportunity for the authorized participants , which they will take once it reaches a level to cover their transactions costs .
Close ... Warning , I may be off a bit here ; I 'm sure someone will correct me if so . Traditional 401k or IRA : money goes in pre-tax ( so , yes , you avoid paying tax on it now ) , grows untaxed , taxes are due when you retire and start taking money back out of the account -- but your income , including these withdrawals , is likely to be lower than your peak earning years so your tax rate will be lower . You do n't avoid all the tax , but you delay it and hopefully reduce it , and by doing so there 's more money in your account earning returns . Roth 401k or IRA : money goes in after taxes ( you do pay income tax now ) . However , all returns on the money are untaxed ( I believe ) , and you pay no tax when you 're eligible to withdraw the funds . Either or both kinds of 401k may be eligible for some percentage of matching funds from your employer ( there are some incentives for them to offer this benefit ) . I believe that even if you 're doing a Roth 401k , the matching funds legally have to go in as traditional plan . And yes , as that implies , it is possible to split your contribution between the two styles . Note : the matching funds are " free money . " If your plan offers a match , it is highly recommended that you contribute enough to your 401k to capture the maximum match .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
Vanguard 's Admiral shares are like regular ( " investor " ) shares in their funds , only they charge lower expense ratios . They have higher investment minimums , though . ( For instance , the Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund has <URL> , but a <URL> ) . If you 've bought a bunch of investor shares and now meet the ( recently-reduced ) minimum for Admiral shares , or if you have some and buy some more investor shares in the future and meet the minimums , you will qualify for a free , no-tax-impact conversion to the Admiral Shares and save yourself some money . For more information , see the <URL> . Vanguard also offers institutional-class shares with even lower expense ratios than that ( with a <URL> ) . A lot of the costs of operating a fund are per-individual , so they do n't need to charge you extra fees for putting in more money after a certain point . They 'd rather be competitive and offer it at cost . Vanguard 's funds typically have very low expense ratios to begin with . ( The investor shares I 've been using as an example are advertised as " 84 % lower than the average expense ratio of funds with similar holdings " . ) In fact , Vanguard 's whole reason for existing is the premise ( <URL> ) that individuals can generally get better returns by investing in a cheap fund that tracks an index than by investing in mutual funds that try to pick stocks and beat the index and charge you a steep markup . The average real return of the stock market is supposedly something like 4 % ; even a small-looking percentage like 1 % can eat a big portion of that . Over the course of 40 years waiting for retirement , saving 1 % on expenses could leave you with something like 50 % more money when you 've retired . If you are interested in the lower expense ratios of the Admiral share classes but can not meet the minimums , note that funds which are available as ETFs can be traded from Vanguard brokerage accounts commission-free and typically charge <URL> without any minimums ( but you need to trade them as individual shares , and this is less convenient than moving them around in specific dollar amounts ) .
The basic idea is that the average person ca n't deduct health care costs unless they 're really onerous . But a business can , and as a self-employed person , you can deduct those costs from the businesses earnings ... as long as the business is really generating enough profit to cover the health insurance costs . That 's why most people get their health insurance from their employer , actually . <URL> say : " You may be able to deduct premiums paid for medical and dental insurance and qualified long-term care insurance for you , your spouse , and your dependents if you are ... A self-employed individual with a net profit reported on Schedule C ( Form 1040 ) . " For 2010 , thanks to the <URL> , you can even deduct the premium from your income before deducting the self-employment tax <URL> . I 'm sure that when you get your tax returns and instructions for 2010 this will all be spelled out .
It 's provincial jurisdiction , so it can vary by province . <URL> , it 's different when an employee quits vs. being terminated : Quiting : Employed at least thirty days but less than one year : one week Employed at least one year : two weeks Being terminated : Employed at least thirty days but less than one year : one week Employed at least one year and less than three years : two weeks Employed at least three years and less than five years : four weeks Employed at least five years and less than ten years : six weeks Employed at least ten years : eight weeks Edit : At least in Manitoba , according to the above link , an employer ca n't set different notice periods . Effective April 30 , 2007 , employers can not have alternate notice policies . A notice policy set under the previous legislation is not valid . The only exclusion is a unionized workplace , where a collective agreement has a probationary period that is one year or less . <URL> , on the other hand does n't have anything legislated about resignation notice except under a couple very specific circumstances . This <URL> for contracts to put in place their own requirements . In this case , you can be sued for provable losses ( minus the savings from not having to pay you . )
In Glencore 's situation they do not have the means to purchase the debt even at the lower valuation . As quoted in WSJ : But investors have become concerned about the high levels of debt Glencore 's trading arm needs to quickly buy , sell and move goods around the world . Its credit rating is two notches above junk status , and a downgrade would freeze it out of crucial capital . Once you hit junk status a lot of institutions will no longer lend and some other credit agreements might be locked out . with nearly $ 30 billion in debt ( Glencore ) , would need to dedicate excess earnings to repaying debt obligations , the analyst said . So basically they do not have earnings to purchase the debt back if they wanted to and since they are near junk status they wo n't be able to refinance as the terms to refinance would be worse than keeping the current debt . <URL> As for ' are there actual rules against doing so ' : There are not laws against refinancing most debt . However , I am sure a lawyer would know more about the actual legalities of the situation . The problem lies in people do n't loan money at good rates to people who need it .
For a company listed on NASDAQ , the numbers are published <URL> . The most recent settlement date was 4/30/2013 , and you can see that it lists 27.5 million shares as held short . NASDAQ gets these numbers from FINRA member firms , which are required to submit them to the exchange <URL> : Each FINRA member firm is required to report its " total " short interest positions in all customer and proprietary accounts in NASDAQ-listed securities twice a month . These reports are used to calculate short interest in NASDAQ stocks . FINRA member firms are required to report their short positions as of settlement on ( 1 ) the 15th of each month , or the preceding business day if the 15th is not a business day , and ( 2 ) as of settlement on the last business day of the month . * The reports must be filed by the second business day after the reporting settlement date . FINRA compiles the short interest data and provides it for publication on the 8th business day after the reporting settlement date .
Yes , you 're still exposed to currency risk when you purchase the stock on company B 's exchange . I 'm assuming you 're buying the shares on B 's stock exchange through an <URL> , <URL> , or similar instrument . The risk occurs as a result of the process through which the ADR is created . In its simplest form , the process works like this : An international bank buys shares in the company on country A 's stock exchange . The bank chooses a conversion rate . This is the number of shares they want to offer on country B 's stock exchange per each share they purchased on country A 's exchange . This conversion rate includes the exchange rate between the two currencies . Example I 'll illustrate this with an example . I 've separated the conversion rate into the exchange rate and a generic " ADR conversion rate " which includes all other factors the bank takes into account when deciding how many ADR shares to sell . The fact that the units line up is a nice check to make sure the calculation is logically correct . My example starts with these assumptions : The price of the company on a European stock exchange is 50 EUR/share . The exchange rate is 1.29056 USD/EUR . I made up the generic ADR conversion rate ; it will remain constant throughout this example . This is the simplified version of the calculation of the ADR share price from the European share price : Let 's assume that the euro appreciates against the US dollar , and is now worth 1.4 USD ( this is a major appreciation , but it makes a good example ) : The currency appreciation alone raised the share price of the ADR , even though the price of the share on the European exchange was unchanged . Now let 's look at what happens if the euro appreciates further to 1.5 USD/EUR , but the company 's share price on the European exchange falls : Even though the euro appreciated , the decline in the share price on the European exchange offset the currency risk in this case , leaving the ADR 's share price on the US exchange unchanged . Finally , what happens if the euro experiences a major depreciation and the company 's share price decreases significantly in the European market ? This is a realistic situation that has occurred several times during the European sovereign debt crisis . Assuming this occurred immediately after the first example , European shareholders in the company experienced a ( 43.50 - 50 ) / 50 = -13 % return , but American holders of the ADR experienced a ( 15.95 - 21.5093 ) / 21.5093 = -25.9 % return . The currency shock was the primary cause of this magnified loss . Other points Another point to keep in mind is that the foreign company itself may be exposed to currency risk if it conducts a lot of business in market with different currencies . Ideally the company has hedged against this , but if you invest in a foreign company through an ADR ( or a GDR or another similar instrument ) , you may take on whatever risk the company has n't hedged in addition to the currency risk that 's present in the ADR/GDR conversion process . Here are a few articles that discuss currency risk specifically in the context of ADR 's : <URL> , <URL> . Nestle , a Swiss company that is traded on US exchanges through an ADR , even addresses this issue <URL> . There are <URL> associated with instruments like ADR 's and cross-listed companies , but normally arbitrageurs will remove these discontinuities quickly . Especially for cross-listed companies , this should keep the prices of highly liquid securities relatively synchronized .
Unfortunately , transportation to school , including tolls , is not a deductible educational expense . From the IRS 's <URL> : Expenses that Do Not Qualify Even if you pay the following expenses to enroll or attend the school , the following are not qualified education expenses : Room and board Insurance Medical expenses ( including student health fees ) Transportation Similar personal , living or family expenses
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
You have n't mentioned how much debt your example company has . Rarely does a company not carry any kind of debt ( credit facilities , outstanding bonds or debentures , accounts payable , etc. ) Might it owe , for instance , $ 1B in outstanding loans or bonds ? Looking at debt too is critically important if you want to conduct the kind of analysis you 're talking about . Consider that the fundamental <URL> says : or , But in your example you 're assuming the assets and equity ought to be equal , discounting the possibility of debt . Debt changes everything . You need to look at the value of the net assets of the company ( i.e. subtracting the debt ) , not just the value of its assets alone . Shareholders are residual claimants on the assets of the company , i.e. after all debt claims have been satisfied . This means the government ( taxes owed ) , the bank ( loans to repay ) , and bondholders are due their payback before determining what is leftover for the shareholders .
GMA would call back the notes provided they are able to find alternative funds at cheaper rates . Yes you are right the interest rates are at all time low ... however not one would lend me a Billion dollars , people have to trust me that I would be able to return the funds ... even if I am willing to pay 50 % interest per annum , I would not get the funds ... Similarly GMA notes are unsecured notes , not backed by any assets . Further there is history to it ... in short today GMA is not in a position to get a cheaper funds available to them ... the day they get it , they will call in the older notes and maybe issues new notes or get some other form of funding
Two reasons are typically cited ( I 've heard these from Dave Ramsey ) : Generally you get a little better rate on a 15-year loan than a 30-year loan , so equal rates at 15 and 30 years is ( typically ) a false comparison . It 's less risk for a bank when there 's a shorter term . If you 've got these side-by-side , I 'd suggest looking for a better lender for the 15-year loan in particular . If you make the payments on time , a 15-year loan always gets paid off in 15 years or less . A 30-year loan that you plan to pay like a 15-year loan may get paid off in 15 years . Yes , having flexibility is nice , but often people rationalize using that flexibility for things they do n't really need . So I would n't refinance to a 15-year loan just for item 2 , but would definitely look at it for the better interest rates .
end question
start question
Which colors can one use to fill out a check in the US ?
Keep in mind that many checks are being cashed via scanner or photo . These can be home based , business based or ATM based systems . The key requirement is that the software has to be able to distinguish the " written " parts from the background parts . If the image does n't have enough contrast for the edge detection to work , the check ca n't be easily processed . In that case a human looks at the image and decodes the image and processes the transaction . The image is not in color . Many businesses scan the check and hand the original back to you after having the Point of Sale system process the image . Post 2001 the checks in the united states are no longer moved through the banking system , only their images . With the roll out of these image based systems , in the future almost no physical checks will be seen by banks . Therefore the actual ink color is not important , only the result .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
Sometimes you may want to be in a position long term but are worried about short term volatility and the price going against you in that period . You do n't want to sell and re-buy back later as this may trigger a capital gain . Plus you do n't know the extent of the price drop or when it will start recovering , so an alternative is to hedge against any potential short term weakness in prices but still reap the long term gains without triggering any intermittent capital gains .
You can have multiple $ 2500/yr contributions from multiple employers <URL> See bottom of page 5 through top of page 6 " However , an employee employed by two or more employers that are not members of the same controlled group may elect up to $ 2,500 ( as indexed for inflation ) under each employer 's health FSA . "
When you write the check and mail it , the donation occurred from your point of view , no matter when it 's actually cashed . For example , from the <URL> : A charitable gift by check is effective when the check is delivered or mailed , as long as the check clears in due course , even though a donor theoretically could stop payment at any time until the check is presented for payment . So , if your check was mailed on 12/31/2014 it was in 2014 's tax year . If you wrote it on 12/31 but did n't mail it until 1/2/2015 , it was in 2015 's tax year . You can still file a 1040X to claim the deduction in 2014 , if it 's enough that you consider it worth your time to do that .
Speaking from experience , yes ( this was 9 years ago though and may have changed due to stricter laws ) . I lived in London and was moving to NYC and wanted to have a functioning bank account upon arrival . I banked in London with HSBC and asked them if they could set me up . They connected me with the right people in the US and after many forms I had a fully functional US bank account with a foreign address and without having a social security number - and I was ( am ) just your average person . You will most likely not be able to get a credit card through them because of lack of credit history ( unless you are ridiculously rich or go for a secured credit card ) , but a debit card should be possible . * My advice is to talk to your local bank and see if they can help you , although it will help if they operate in the US . Good luck ! * I have heard from various expats that American Express may be willing to issue cards in the states based on their existing relation with clients in other countries , but I digress . If you have an Amex in Switzerland or Sweden I would recommend talking to them .
In any . There 's no SSN requirement to open a bank account in the US . It comes into play when banks use SSN as a means of identification , or when they 're required to collect tax ids ( for interest bearing accounts ) .
No . One of the key ideas behind a corporation is that an investor 's liability is limited to the amount he invests , i.e. the amount of stock he buys . This is the primary reason why small businesses become corporations , even though one person owns 100 % of the stock . Then if the business goes broke , he wo n't lose his house , retiretment fund , etc. . He 'll lose everything he had in the business , but at least there 's a limit to it . ( In some countries there are other ways to achieve the same results , like creating a " limited liabililty company " , but that 's another story . )
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
In the United States , post-dating a check , on its own , has no valid use . It can be cashed at any time at the discretion of the bank . You would need to send a notice of postdating to your bank describing the check . This does n't prevent the recipient of cashing the check , but it does prevent your bank from charging your account until the date you specify NOTE : This may be considered a form of stop payment , and you may be subject to the fees noted by your institution . Source : [ <URL> ] ( c ) A bank may charge against the account of a customer a check that is otherwise properly payable from the account , even though payment was made before the date of the check , unless the customer has given notice to the bank of the postdating describing the check with reasonable certainty . [ ... ] If a bank charges against the account of a customer a check before the date stated in the notice of postdating , the bank is liable for damages for the loss resulting from its act . The loss may include damages for dishonor of subsequent items under <URL> .
We ca n't give you specific advice without a ton more details , and even then the " right " answer depends on your own preferences . You need to determine your own goals . I can make a couple of observations you might think about , though . Frequently , career progress and lifetime wealth are completely compatible goals , but they may be incompatible with current income . That is , the best way to maximize your wealth is often to take a career-advancing job that may not pay highly , work it for a few years , then change jobs and repeat . Each time you change , make sure you are landing at a higher position than your last . If you are successful you will end up making a lot of money and truly advancing your career . What you give up is stability and comfort . Normally I 'd say if you are experiencing financial distress , it 's time to take a high paying job for at least a while while you get your feet under you . However , since you mention you are a student , I infer that you are young and may be in a position to borrow or just live a very poor life while you get established . These are both normal for that time of life . Just because a job does n't involve working on a team does n't mean it wo n't advance your career . Advancing your career frequently means having lots of lines of relevant work on your resume . You should keep each job for at least a few years ( maybe 3 ) so you do n't look like a quitter , but in terms of marketability , lots of different kinds of experiences are good , including working alone . You have n't mentioned your alternative jobs . If the question is whether to take a job that 's not so great or to be unemployed , the not-so-great job is pretty much always better . You wo n't enhance your career at all by not working . In terms of worrying , I 'd say having a successful and ambitious life will always involve worry . You need to channel that energy to something positive . Make a plan of what you want to do with your life , when you will pay off your debts , and what your ultimate career goal is . Make a budget and figure out how you will get by . Write it down . This will help turn unhelpful stress into helpful action . Good luck .
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
From working in a bank : Void the check and write a new one . Any change , even if initialed , could be considered suspicious , and cause for the bank to refuse to accept the check ( they may still accept it at their discretion ) . It 's better to be safe than sorry , so write out a new check that is correct .
This is n't so much a legal issue , the prohibition on giving discounts was written into the merchant agreements that most of the major credit card companies enforced on businesses that accepted their credit cards . That is , until the recent Financial Reform Bill ( 2010 ) passed Congress . It changes everything . ( The logic on this is a little convoluted , so read carefully ) Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from requiring a minimum purchase amount to use a credit card . Meaning : That if merchants want to , they can now stop taking credit cards for a $ 4 latte . Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from giving discounts for cash . Here is an article with a lot more detail : <URL> Here is a link to the actual bill details and content : <URL> Here is the relevant part : This subsection is supposed to take affect " at the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 . " In other words , July 21st , 2011 .
The top long-term capital gains tax rate will rise to 20 % effective 1 Jan , 2011 , unless Congress decides to do something about it before then . ( Will they ? Who knows !! There 's been talk about it , but , well , it 's Congress . They do n't even know what they 're going to do . ) Anyway . The rules about when you can sell stock are mostly concerned with when you can realize a capital loss : if you sell a stock at a loss and then re-buy it for tax purposes within 30 days , it 's a wash sale and not eligible for a deduction . However , I do n't believe this applies to any stocks once you realize a gain - once you 've realized the gain and paid your tax for it , it 's all yours , locked in at whatever rate . Your replacement stock will be subject to short-term capital gains for the next year afterwards , and you might need to be careful with identifying the holding period on different lots of your stock , but I do n't believe there will be any particular trouble . Please do not rely entirely on my advice and consult also with your tax preparer or lawyer . :) And the IRS documentation : <URL> Special Addendum for Nov/Dec 2012 ! Spoiler alert ! Congress did indeed act : they extended the rates , but only temporarily , so now we 're looking at tax hikes starting in 2013 instead , only the new top rate + + will be something like 23.8 % on account of an extra 3.8 % medicare tax on passive earnings ( brought to you via Obamacare legislation ) . But the year and the rates ' specifics aside , same thing still applies . And the Republican house and Democratic senate/President are still duking it out . Have fun . + + 3.8 % surtax applies to the lesser of ( a ) net investment income ( b ) income over $ 200,000 ( $ 250k if married ) . 20 % tax rate applies to people in the 15 % income tax bracket for ordinary income or higher . Additional tax discounts for property held over 5 years may be available . Consult tax law and your favorite tax professional and prepare to be confused .
The matching funds are free money , so it is a very good idea to take that money off the table . Look at it as free 100 % return : you deposit $ 1000 , your employer matches that $ 1000 , you now have $ 2000 in your 401 ( k ) . ( Obviously , I 'm keeping things simple . Vesting schedules mean that the employer match is n't yours to keep immediately , but rather after some time ; usually in chunks . ) Beyond the employer match , you need to consider what is available for investment in a 401 ( k ) . Typically , your options are more limited then in an IRA . The cost of the 401 ( k ) should be considered , as it is n't trivial for most . ( The specifics will of course vary , but in large IRA accounts are cheaper . ) So , it 's about the opportunity costs . Up to the employer match , it does n't matter as much that your investment choices are more limited in a 401 ( k ) , because you 're getting 100 % return just on the matching funds . Once that is exhausted , you have more opportunity for returns , due to having more options available to you , by going with an account that provides more choices . The overall principle here is that you have to look at the whole picture . This is similar to the notion that you should pay-down your high interest debt before investing , because from the perspective of investing the interest you 're paying represent a loss , or negative return on investment , since money is going out of your accounts . Specific to your question , you have to consider the various types of investment vehicles available to you . It is not just about 401 ( k ) and IRA accounts . You may also consider a straight brokerage account , a savings account , CDs , etc. . The costs and returns that you can typically expect are your guides through the available choices .
For Qualified or Safe Harbor Matching/Profit Sharing they have legal requirements over 59.5 . For everything else it 's based on the plan document what is allowed . The plan document can be ( and usually is ) more restrictive than the law .
Your mother-in-law might consider a home-repair policy that covers all of the major systems ( HVAC , Water heater , plumbing , garage doors , perhaps even appliances ) . She would buy this policy to reduce the risk of a large expense not handled by monthly cash-flow . She might do this because she has a fixed income , and does not have an emergency fund , in the same way a landlord at a single family home might want to avoid cash-flow risks . The cost of the policy is certain to be higher than the actuarial cost ( cost of claim x probability of claim during insured time period ) of repair/replacement of a failed system , as the insurer would need to cover sales costs , operating expenses and profit in addition to the direct policy cost of system replacement . The value to the insured is the predictability of the premium payment . Insurance only makes sense for large and unpredictable expenses ( unexpected , major medical bills , death or debilitating injury , other unforseen and large loss ) . You would not insure for elective/cosmetic surgery ( large , predictable ) , haircuts ( small , predictable ) , or lost keys ( small , unpredictable ) Note : some people use AAA to insure against the inconveniences of lost keys , flat tires , and dead batteries Note : some people buy extended auto repair warranties , cell phone warranties , and extended warranties on consumer goods , to mitigate the inconveniences of these unpredictable events . Insurance is based upon information advantage . An insurer uses actuarial knowledge ( claims history , statistical models ) to predict claims , and then prices the policy to ensure premiums exceed risk plus costs and profit . Should an insured to have better knowledge of claim probability , they would only buy coverage near to their needed claim instance . Thus , an insurer constructs their policy to prevent purchasing a policy only when the protection is needed . This is why many economists believe insurance is a flawed product , demanding unequal information .
end question
start question
Are non-residents or foreigners permitted to buy or own shares of UK companies ?
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
The primary advantage is protection of your personal assets . If your LLC gets sued , they ca n't take your house/car/dog / wife . There are n't really any financial incentives to be an LLC ; because of the pass-thru taxing structure , you wind up paying the same in taxes either way . " The cost " will depend on where you 're located , and usually involves a few factors -- Expect to pay $ 300-500 to start it , depending on your state and who you register with ( technically , you can usually register for free at the secretary of state , but would n't you rather pay an expert ? ) , and " State Franchise Tax " , which will can be a minimum of up to $ 1000/year depending on the state , plus even more if your LLC earns more than $ xxx ,000 . EDIT -- As an aside , I 'll mention that I 'm based in California , and our state franchise tax starts at $ 800/yr . I 'm all-web-based , so I 've been investigating incorporating in Nevada or Delaware instead ( no franchise tax , lower filing fees ) , but from what I 've found , it 's hardly worth the trouble . In addition to having to pay a Registered Agent ( someone to act as my permanent mailing address in that state for ~ $ 100/yr ) , apparently California likes to search for people just like me , and charge them $ 800 anyway . You can fight that , of course , and claim that your business really is done in Nevada , but do you really want to ?
Selftrade does <URL> . Not sure if you 'll be able to sign up from the US though , particularly given the <URL> .
I found <URL> at CNN Money , that lists 5 viable alternatives to Paypal , namely : Digital River 2checkout . com Alertpay TrialPay E-Junkie I would suggest looking for unbiased sources like CNN rather than searching for alternatives and happening upon the merchant 's sites themselves . Hope this helps !
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
You question is very hard to answer as it is tough to put a value on how much bad your added investment in evil companies would cause and also how much value the charities add . However , there has been a bunch of really good work on socially responsible investing in general . <URL> might be too technical for some but the conclusion section is very readable and clear . The big worry about socially responsible investing from a financial standpoint is that it will lower returns in the long run . The paper above and others show fairly clearly that as long as you only exclude a few classes of stocks and still have a fairly broad base that the expected returns are similar . The main issue though is some socially responsible funds have much higher fees . So the usual advice applies , do your research to make sure your investments are well diversified and have low fees . As long as the index is fairly broad you can consider the difference between the fees on the socially responsible index and investing in a more common index as the long run cost . Then you can balance that cost and having more money for charity against the benefits of not investing in evil companies .
Inflation will damage the value of those cash reserves . This will harm the company 's value . ( Other factors may or may not be harmed . or helped . ) Borrowing costs may be related to inflation , but they 're not directly tied . Inflation happens , in fact , when it 's easy to borrow money and more money gets created than new economic activity . ( Also , if a competitor really needs to raise money , they can also issue new equity . It 's not all borrowing . )
In the UK the bank owns it for all the reasons you give . But if the bank ever asks for it back you should cut it in two before giving it back , as you can never be 100 % that it IS the bank that is asking for it .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
Yes , of course there are . In Mexico they 're called caja popular and one of the largest is <URL> . There are also microfinance institutions ( like <URL> ) but Mexico is <URL> in the world ( well over 100 % ) . For more information on lenders ( and ratings plus a really cool APR calculation tool ) visit <URL> .
What you refer to as " cumulative " is normally called compounding . Note that while I know your example is fictitious , but 2 % per month is totally beyond the realms of possibility - 2 % per year is the right order of magnitude . Usually interest rates are quoted as annual equivalent rates ( AER ) , which in effect means that they are compounded annually . Also , typically for ISAs interest will be paid annually so you wo n't even see individual monthly interest payments . So the amount paid in the first year might be 2 % of the total balance , and then the amount paid in the second year might be another 2 % of that new balance . So if you replace " month " by " year " in your question then that 's roughly what you should expect to see . For other accounts , particularly current accounts , interest might be paid and compounded monthly , but the interest rate quoted will still be an AER . If you kept the same balance in the account for an entire year , then you would end up receiving the total interest quoted ( e.g. 2 % ) but each month you would actually get a rate that 's calculated to produce the same result .
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
I think you 're right that these sites look so unprofessional that they are n't likely to be legitimate . However , even a very legitimate-looking site might be a fake designed to separate you from your money . There is an entire underground industry devoted to this kind of fakery and some of them are adept at what they do . So how can you tell ? One place that you can consult is <URL> online service . This might be the first of many checks you should undertake . Who is FINRA , you might ask ? " The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms doing business in the United States . " See <URL> . My unprofessional guess is , even if a firm 's line of business is to broker deals in private company shares , that if they 're located in the U.S. or else dealing in U.S. securities then they 'd still need to be registered with FINRA -- note the " all securities firms " above . I was able to search BrokerCheck and find SecondMarket ( the firm @duffbeer703 mentioned ) listed as " Active " in the FINRA database . The entry also provides some information about the firm . For instance , SecondMarket appears to also be registered with the <URL> . You should also note that SecondMarket links back to these authorities ( refer to the footer of <URL> ) : " Member FINRA | MSRB | SIPC . Registered with the SEC as an alternative trading system for trading in private company shares . SEC 606 Info [ ... ] " Any legitimate broker would want you to look them up with the authorities if you 're unsure about their legitimacy . However , to undertake any such kind of deal , I 'd still suggest more due diligence . An accredited investor with serious money to invest ought to , if they are not already experts themselves on these things , hire a professional who is expert to provide counsel , help navigate the system , and avoid the frauds .
401k contributions are exempt from federal ( and sometimes state ) income tax . They are not exempt from FICA . So the answer to your question is FICA taxes are applied before making the contribution .
You 're interpreting things correctly , at least at a high level . Those numbers come from the 10Q filing and investor summary from Microsoft , but are provided to NASDAQ by Zacks Investment Research , as noted on the main page you linked to . That 's a big investment data firm . I 'm not sure why they reported non-GAAP Microsoft numbers and not , say , AAPL numbers ; it 's possible they felt the non-GAAP numbers reflect things better ( or have in the past ) for some material reason , or it 's possible they made a typo , though the last three quarters at least all used non-GAAP numbers for MSFT . MSFT indicates that the difference in GAAP and non-GAAP revenue is primarily deferred revenue ( from Windows and Halo ) . I did confirm that the SEC filing for MSFT does include the GAAP number , not the non-GAAP number ( as you 'd expect ) . I will also note that it looks like the 10Q is not the only source of information . Look at ORCL for example : they had in the March 2016 report ( period ending 2/29/16 ) revenues of .50 / share GAAP / .64 / share non-GAAP . But the NASDAQ page indicates .59 / share for that quarter . My suspicion is that the investment data firm ( Zack 's ) does additional work and includes certain numbers they feel belong in the revenue stream but are not in the GAAP numbers . Perhaps MS ( and Oracle ) have more of those - such as deferred software revenues ( AAPL has relatively little of that , as most of their profit is hardware ) .
The 401K match has limits , but it is not taxable until you withdraw the money from the account . You can think of it as an initial lump of interest or gain . When you leave the company you are allowed to keep it , if you are vested . You can then roll it over into a IRA , or another 401K . When you withdraw money in retirement you will pay taxes on the match and all the gains from the match . Taxes on what you contribute will depend on if it was pre-tax or post-tax , or if it was deposited into a Roth IRA . The amount you deposit pretax is noted on the W-2 , which you attach to the 1040 form . The company match does not appear anywhere on the w-2 or 1040 . It should show on your 401-K statements . Those statements should also tell you how much of the match has been vested .
It may depend on a couple of things : ( a ) whether the grantors ( your grandparents ) died or not , and ( b ) when . There were some rules <URL> that may affect step-up in basis for grantors to irrevocable trusts that died in 2010 . But I would n't think the basis would be zero in either case . The stocks cost something at some point , and if anything , the stocks ' basis would be at the very least the lower of the market price at the time of purchase or the time of transfer ( step-down in basis ) .
It 's not just the US based mailing address for registration or US based credit-card or bank account : even if you had all these , like I do , you will find that these online filing companies do not have the infrastructure to handle non-resident taxes . The reason why the popular online filing companies do not handle non-resident taxes is because : Non-residents require a different set of forms to fill out - usually postfixed NR - like the 1040-NR . These forms have different rules and templates that do not follow the usual resident forms . This would require non-trivial programming done by these vendors All the NR forms have detailed instructions and separate set of non-resident guides that has enough information for a smart person to figure out what needs to be done . For example , check out <URL> . As a result , by reading these most non-residents ( or their accountants ) seem to figure out how the taxes need to be filed . For the remaining others , the numbers perhaps are not significant enough to justify the non-trivial programming that need to be done by these vendors to incorporate the non-resident forms . This was my understanding when I did research into tax filing software . However , if you or anyone else do end up finding tax filing software that does allow non-resident forms , I wil be extremely happy to learn about them . To answer your question : you need to do it yourself or get it done by someone who knows non-resident taxes . Some people on this forum , including me for gratis , would be glad to check your work once you are done with it as long as you relieve us of any liability .
Do you mean kinda big amounts , or REALLY big amounts ( like Warren Buffet-sized amounts ) ? Stocks on the American markets are traded in lots of 100 shares ( called " round lots " ) . For these amounts you can either call up a broker or go to an online brokerage and place your order in directly to the floor . It 's executed in seconds ( usually ) and you have your shares for a commission of a few bucks . This is in contrast to what you 're doing with Sharebuilder . You can buy in less than 100-share increments , but you 're paying more per share in the long run to do so because you 're actually buying an allocation of a round lot from Sharebuilder . If you 're buying a whole lot of shares , then usually you have to do so gradually ( and not tell anyone you 're doing so , especially if you 're Warren Buffet ) . If you were to put an order for 1,000,000 shares at once , you could end up paying a lot more than you need to because it might not be the case that there are enough sellers to sell you 1,000,000 shares at near the current price . The price will go up until your order is filled , but that could take a while .
Yes the company can still pay dividends even if they are n't making a profit . 1 ) If the firm has been around , it might have made profits in the past years , which it might be still carrying ( check for retained earnings in the financial statements ) . 2 ) Some firms in the past have had taken up debt to return the money to shareholders as dividends . 3 ) It might sell a part of it 's assets and return the gain as dividends . 4 ) They might be bought by some other firm , which returns cash to shareholders to keep them happy . It pays to keep an eye on the financial statements of the company to check how much liquid money they might be carrying around to pay shareholders as dividends . They can stop paying dividends whenever they want . Apple did n't pay a dividend while Steve Jobs was around , even though they were making billions in profits . Many companies do n't pay dividends because they find it more beneficial to continue investing in their business rather than returning money to shareholders .
end question
start question
What is a " convertible note " ?
<URL> Convertible notes are often used by angel investors who wish to fund businesses without establishing an explicit valuation of the company in which they are investing . When an investor purchases equity in a startup , the purchase price of the equity implies a company valuation . For example , if an investor purchases a 10 per cent ownership stake in a company , and pay $ 1m for that stake , this implies that the company is worth $ 10m . Some early stage investors may wish to avoid placing a value on the company in this way , because this in turn will affect the terms under which later-stage investors will invest in the company . Convertible notes are structured as loans at the time the investment is made . The outstanding balance of the loan is automatically converted to equity when a later equity investor appears , under terms that are governed by the terms set by the later-stage equity investor . An equity investor is someone who purchases equity in a company . Example : - Suppose an angel investor invests $ 100,000 using a convertible note . Later , an equity investor invests $ 1m and receives 10 % of the company 's shares . In the simplest possible case , the initial angel investor 's convertible note would convert to 1/10th of the equity investor 's claim . Depending on the exact structure of the convertible note , however , the angel investor may also receive extra shares to compensate them for the additional risk associated with being an earlier investor <URL> Will twitter have to sell their offices and liquidate staff to close this debt ? This depends on the seniority ( priority ) of the debt . Debt is serviced according to seniority . The higher seniority debts will be paid off first and then only the lower seniority debts be serviced . This will all be in the agreements when you enter into a transaction . When you say liquidate staff you mean sell off their assets and not sell their staff into slavery .
They are limiting your total investment in Notes to no more than 10 % of your net worth . Step 1 : determine your net worth Step 2 : Divide this number by 10 The answer is the maximum amount you can put at risk through Lendingclub . The issue is that if you lose all the investment you will not be bankrupted . If it was the other way you could invest all your net worth in Lendingclub by splitting it among 10 + notes . Your net worth is " determined exclusive of the value of your home , home furnishings and automobile . " Which means do n't include the house and the stuff in the house . That means your net worth is the money in the bank ; plus the money invested in stocks , ETFs , and mutual funds ; plus retirement accounts ( 401K , IRA ) ; minus loans ( student , credit cards ) .
As someone who works for a company that deploys POS systems in Canada , I can tell you that your best bet would be to have a configuration option that lets the client decide what to do . If they have a business practice that would allow for a sale total to be $ 0.01 or $ 0.02 , they should first evaluate their business practice . If you 're building a POS system to deploy in Canada , I 'm sure you have access to resources ( potential clients ) who would already know how they would want to handle this . Ask them .
When referring to the market long means you are betting " this " will go higher in value . Short means the opposite . So when you are long an option , it just means you have bought the option . Here is an example of a <URL> A good point @JohnBensin made in <URL> : When you long a put option , you 're not hoping the underlying asset goes higher , but that the option itself increases in value ( implying that the underlying decreased in value ) .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
Accrued interest generally means " interest that is earned but not received " ( <URL> ) . This is the interest that is added on top of the amount that was originally agreed upon . Because your friend missed some months , she will have gained 3 % interest on top of the original loan amount for every month that she did n't pay . The interest even applies to the increased loan amount , so it will increase exponentially for every month that she does not make a payment . For example , if the loan amount was for $ 1,000 and she missed the payment the first month , the 3 % accrued interest will raise that loan amount to $ 1030 . If she misses the second month , then the loan amount will become $ 1060.90 and so on . This means that it will take her more months to pay the loan in its entirety . " Arrears " are the overdue payments that she had not made ( <URL> ) . So the sentence " with susbsequent payments paying the arrears before being applied to the current month 's payment " means that she must pay the overdue debt from the previous months first before she can even make the payment for the current month .
From my understanding , a CDS is a financial product to buy protection against an event of " default " ( default of payment ) . Example : if General Motors owes me money $ 10,000,000 ( because I own GM bonds for example ) and I wish to protect myself against the event of GM not repaying the money they owe me ( event called " credit default " ) , I pay FinancialCompany_X ( the seller of the CDS ) perhaps $ 250,000 per year against the promise that FinancialCompany_X will pay me in case GM is not paying me . This way I protected myself against that risk . FinancialCompany_X took the risk ( against money ) . A CDS is in fact an insurance . Except they do n't call it an insurance which enabled the financial industry to avoid the regulation that applies to insurances . There is a lot of infos here : <URL>
Most people carry a diversity of stock , bond , and commodities in their portfolio . The ratio and types of these investments should be based on your goals and risk tolerance . I personally choose to manage mine through <URL> which combine the three , but <URL> are also becoming popular . As for where you keep your portfolio , it depends on what you 're investing for . If you 're investing for retirement you are definitely best to keep as much of your investment as possible in <URL> or <URL> ( preferably <URL> ) . Many advisers suggest contributing as much to your 401k as your company matches , then the rest to IRA , and if you over contribute for the IRA back to the 401k . You may choose to skip the 401k if you are not comfortable with the choices your company offers in it ( such as only investing in company stock ) . If you are investing for a point closer than retirement and you still want the risk ( and reward potential ) of stock I would suggest investing in <URL> , or eating the tax and investing in regular mutual funds . If you are going to take money out before retirement the penalties of a 401k or IRA make it not worth doing . Technically a savings account is n't investing , but rather a place to store money .
Assuming you 're in the United States , then International Equity is an equity from a different country . These stocks or stock funds ( which reside in a foreign country ) are broken out seperately becuase they are typically influenced by a different set of factors than equities in the United States : foreign currency swings , regional events and politics of various countries .
Aside from <URL> , I do n't know of anything specific in regards to funds as they are often purchased in fractional shares and if a mutual fund company decides it can split its shares to artificially lower the NAV in a manner similar to receiving 10 dimes for each dollar bill one has so that there is n't a change in the total value . From the link : " Buying a dividend " refers to purchasing a mutual fund just prior to a distribution by that fund . It is not advisable for an investor to purchase a mutual fund that will be held in a taxable account immediately prior to a distribution . A portion of the investment will be returned to the investor as a taxable distribution . The investor will incur a tax liability on a distribution without any benefit . I would consider a couple of other points when looking at a fund : Management - Is the current management what has that track record ? Sometimes this can be useful to note as if the management is n't responsible for the record , how useful is this knowledge ? ( For example , in the case of VHCOX there is also VPMCX that has the same management company which is worth noting as well . ) Size of fund - In particular has the fund grown a great deal that may make the fund more challenging to actively manage ? Some funds that focus on a particular style of market may have challenges if the size of the fund grows a great deal . Additionally , is the style of the fund pure or not is something else to consider as some people may desire for funds to invest in companies of a certain size rather than giving the manager free reign .
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
In most companies , a fund and a portfolio mean the same thing ; therefore a fund manager and portfolio manager are the same role . The difference between a portfolio manager and a trader ( where exists ) is as follows : Portfolio manager 's job is to decide on the best contents ( holdings ) in the portfolio that would accomplish the portfolio 's stated objective within stated constraints ( e.g. make the best possible return while keeping the risk under a specified level ) . Trader 's job at a buy-side institution is to basically execute the trades necessary to change the portfolio holdings from their current state to whatever state portfolio managers decided to achieve . As a matter of fact , at some smaller buy-side firms ( especially fixed income ) , there ARE no separate trader positions , and portfolio managers do both jobs . A trader 's job is to execute the required trades so that the transaction costs are minimized and the PnL is maximized by buying as low as possible and selling as high as possible ( e.g. for a simple example dumping a large chunk of a certain stock all at once would depress the stock price so you would make less money as your average sell price goes down ) . Trader 's job at a sell-side institution is more involved , as the trader is also responsible for making money for the firm via his trades , e.g. he may trade securities specifically for the purpose of making the money off the trade as opposed to the purpose of achieving desired portfolio composition .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
According to <URL> , weak longs Refers to the group of investors that holds a long position and is quick to exit that position at the first sign of weakness . This group of investors is generally looking to capture the potential upside in a given security , but is not willing to take much loss . These investors will quickly close their positions when a trade does not work in their favor . Weak longs are regarded as the opposite of true long-term investors because they are not willing to hold their positions through all types of fluctuations . Weak longs are generally short-term traders who are looking for a quick profit . When the situation is not looking good , they will close their positions and go looking for opportunities elsewhere . A weak long is someone who exits their long position at the first sign of weakness . This does not necessarily mean that they 're a novice trader ; they may simply be a trader looking to profit in the short-term , and the short-term decline triggers their risk management strategy and indicates that they should exit the market .
The <URL> , titled " Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for United States Tax Withholding " , certifies that you are not an American for tax purposes , so they wo n't withhold tax on your U.S. income . You 're also to use W-8BEN to identify your country of residence and corresponding tax identification number for tax treaty purposes . For instance , if you live in the U.K. , which has a tax treaty with the U.S. , your W-8BEN would indicate to the U.S. that you are not an American , and that your U.S. income is to be taxed by the U.K. instead of tax withheld in the U.S. I 've filled in that form a couple of times when opening stock trading accounts here in Canada . It was requested by the broker because in all likelihood I 'd end up purchasing U.S.-listed stocks that would pay dividends . The W-8BEN is needed in order to reduce the U.S. withholding taxes on those dividends . So I would say that the ad revenue provider is requesting you file one so they do n't need to withhold full U.S. taxes on your ad revenue . Detailed instructions on the W-8BEN form are also available from the IRS : <URL> . On the subject of ad revenue , Google also has some information about W8-BEN : <URL>
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Payment against invoice means they will pay after you send them an invoice ( typically after services are rendered ) , rather than automatically after delivery ( PAYMENT AFTER DELIVERY ) or ahead of time ( PAYMENT IN ADVANCE ) . Typically with invoice-based payment you would have a term that said what day they will pay you by . For example , NET 7 would indicate they will issue payment a week after invoice is received , NET 90 would be three months later .
<URL> provides a similar service ( i.e. scheduled buying of a select list of stocks and ETFs in dollar amounts ) . Price points are a bit higher , as expected . I used to have an account with them and the service was excellent .
From a technical perspective , it 's all to do with how matching ( or crossing ) works . Many exchanges impose a maximum tick frequency just to have an upper limit on the outgoing data . The order book and the matching engine are usually two independent , orthogonal concepts . There 's a working cycle that , at time , takes a state of the order book ( a snapshot if you will ) and all incoming orders ( a snapshot of the order queue ) and feeds them to the matching engine . An order can either result in a cross , in which case something is taken from the book , or when there 's no matching cross side an order can be added to the book . Once this cycle is over , the order book ( and all executions in that time slot ) is disseminated again , and the working cycle can be re-run . Just a thought experiment now : If they did process each order individually ( i.e. start a new round and send the order book afterwards ) then I could create a lot of noise by sending an order and its cancellation , or an order and a self-crossing order at the same time ( it 's called quote stuffing ) . Everyone could see every single state the order book goes through , in particular they will see my order coming in , only that I 'm the only one knowing that this order will be cancelled moments later , and while they decide whether or not to react I can use the time to do something useful , my abusive behaviour has given me a time advantage . The exact configuration of the time windows above depend on many factors and is often not even disclosed to the public . If you need this number because you 're building a trading system and need an upper bound or so , you could check with the exchange 's tech or API department . Edit Just to clarify , I 'm talking about changes in the order book at any level ( not necessarily the top level ) , and since most exchanges for a given price level consolidate all orders ( they only show you the total quantity at that price level ) , they will have to report the new quantity after every round . Also , I 'm using crossing and matching synonymously . Edit Not from personal experience , but have a look at <URL> ( in particular <URL> ) , they demonstrate how the cycle in principle looks , but provide no figures how much time is allocated to each step ( from Matching Engine Gap Fill to Gap Fill )
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
end question
start question
Are there contracts for fixed pay vs. fixed pay rates ?
Yes . I have personally signed such contracts ( fixed budget software development ) and lost money every single time . And yes , it is quite possible for you to get paid under minimum wage if you take too long . <URL> is the primary culprit for these kinds of contracts , so make sure you put together iron-clad explanations of what is and is not covered by the contract ( and pad the asking price for good measure ) .
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
I did this , graduated , and did not explode . Based on this fact , I think you can do it too . There are no gotchas I am aware of .
If you 're a cash based tax payer ( which you most likely are ) , you can not do so . You report the wages in the year you receive them . You can not back-date earnings for your tax benefit .
I do n't have any experience in this , but this is my academic understanding of business pricing . The LOWEST amount a seller would accept is the liquidation value . For a B&amp;B , what would the value of the land , the house , the furnishings , accounts payable , etc. be if it had to be sold today , minus any liabilities . The amount the seller would like to pay for is going to be a multiple of its annual earnings . One example of this is the discounted cash flow analysis . You determine the EBITDA , the earnings a company generated , before interest , depreciation , taxation and amortization . Once you have this amount , you can project it out in perpetuity , or you use an industry multiplier . Perpetuity : You project this value out in perpituity , discounted by the going interest rate . In other words , if you project the business will earn $ 100,000 / year , the business should grow at a 5 % rate , and the going interest rate is 8 % . Using a growing perpetuity formula , one value of a business would be : 100,000 / ( .08 - .03 ) = $ 2,000,000 . This is a very high number , and the seller would love to get it . It 's more common to do a multiple of the EBIDTA . You can do some research into the valuation of the particular industry to figure out the EBIDTA multiplier for the industry . For example , <URL> suggests that the 2011 EBITDA multiplier for hospitality industries is 13.8 . ( It 's valuing large hotel chains , but it 's a start ) . So the value of this B&amp;B would be around $ 1,380,000 . Here is an online <URL> to help with the EBIDTA multiple based valuation . Also , from my research , it looks like many small business use Seller Discretionary Earnings ( SDE ) instead of EBITDA . I do n't know much about it , but it seems to serve a similar purpose as EBITDA . A potential buyer should request the financial statements of the business for the last few years to determine the value of the business , and then can negotiate with the owner a price . You would probably want to enlist a broker to help you with the transaction .
Keep in mind that all of the information below assumes : The barter occurs outside a black market and by agents who wish to comply with the law . Black markets are a different issue . You are fully aware that I am not a tax professional , so although I 've tried to provide sources where possible , speak to someone who knows the laws of your respective country if this question is anything more than a curiosity . That being said , here are some examples of national tax laws relating to barter transactions . Obviously this is n't an exhaustive list , but based on my grossly non-representative sample , I think it 's fairly safe to assume that barter transactions are more likely taxable than not . United States You 're referring to a barter system ; in the United States , the IRS is <URL> about this ( see the section titled Bartering ) . Bartering is an exchange of property or services . The fair market value of goods and services exchanged is fully taxable and must be included on Form 1040 in the income of both parties . The IRS also provides <URL> : Bartering occurs when you exchange goods or services without exchanging money . An example of bartering is a plumber doing repair work for a dentist in exchange for dental services . You must include in gross income in the year of receipt the fair market value of goods and services received in exchange for goods or services you provide or may provide under the bartering arrangement . Generally , you report this income on <URL> , Profit or Loss from Business or <URL> , Net Profit from Business . If you failed to report this income , correct your return by filing a <URL> . Refer to <URL> for amended return information . So yes , the net value of bartered goods or services is most likely taxable . Australia According to the <URL> : Barter transactions are assessable and deductible for income tax purposes to the same extent as other cash or credit transactions . United Kingdom <URL> states that : If you supply services or goods ( new or second-hand ) and receive other goods or services in payment , there are two separate supplies : the supply from you to your customer the supply from your customer to you You must account for VAT , and so must your customer if they 're VAT-registered . The VAT treatment is the same as for part-exchanges . You must both account for VAT on the amounts you would each have paid for the goods or services if there had been no barter and they had been paid for with money . Russia Searching the website of the <URL> for the Russian/Cryllic word for barter ( ) does n't yield any results , but that might be because even between Google Translate and the rest of the internet , I do n't speak Russian . That being said , I did manage to find <URL> ( <URL> from the first full paragraph of the Russian , beginning with " Налог на доходы ... " : The tax on personal income is paid by citizens of the Russian Federation with all types of income received by them in the calendar year , either in cash or in kind . Since bartering would probably qualify as an <URL> , it would likely be taxable . South Africa The South African Revenue Service <URL> in the supply of goods taxed under the VAT . The term " supply " is defined very broadly and includes all forms of supply and any derivative of the term , irrespective of where the supply is effected . The term includes performance in terms of a sale , rental agreement , instalment credit agreement or barter transaction . Look for section 3.6 , Supply and Taxable Supply , found on p17 of the current version of the linked document .
As some of the comments indicated , you could ask your employer to give you a book buying budget , but if not ... As a developer there are books that should sit on your shelf , one those being Design Patterns . A quick search of Amazon or Half.com show these books retail new for about $ 40 , or you can buy used for $ 20 or less . Buy used and realize your savings that way . Another way to realize tax savings is to setup a company and do some side work . Any money you earn could be used to offset the cost of books or other resources and part or all of some of your expenses can be written off . The ability to write off work related expenses has basically disappeared , unless you have a lot of them and you itemize your taxes .
As I 'm sure you are reading in Hull 's classic , the basic valuation of bonds depends on the chance of entity defaulting on those bonds . Let 's start with just looking at the US . The United States has a big advantage over corporations in issuing debt as it also prints the same currency that the debt is denominated in . This makes it much easier not to default on your debt as you can always print more money to pay it . Printing too much currency would cause inflation lowering the value of debt , but this would also lower the value of US corporate debt as well . So you can think of even the highest rated corporate bonds as having the same rate as government debt plus a little extra due to the additional default risk of the corporation . The situation with other AA rated governments is more complicated . Most of those governments have debt denominated in their local currency as well so it may seem like they should all have similar rates . However , some governments have higher and some actually have lower rates than the United States . Now , as above , some of the difference is due to the possible need of printing too much currency to cover the debt in crisis and now that we have more than one country to invest in the extra risk of international money flowing out of the country 's bonds . However , the bigger difference between AA governments rates depends more on money flow , central banks and regulation . Bonds are still mostly freely traded instruments that respond to supply and demand , but this supply and demand is heavily influenced by governments . Central banks buy up large portions of the debt raising demand and lowering rates . Regulators force banks to hold a certain amount of treasuries perhaps inflating demand . Finally , to answer your question the United States has some interesting advantages partially just due to its long history of stability , controlled inflation and large economy making treasuries valuable as one of the lowest risk investments . So its rates are generally on the low end , but government manipulation can still mean that it is not necessarily the lowest .
Yes , asking your employer paying you W-2 wages to withhold additional income tax is a convenient way of paying taxes on self-employment income without the hassle of making quarterly payments of estimated tax . This is particularly useful if your self-employment income starts ( or increases dramatically ) towards the end of the year when you already have missed some quarterly payment deadlines . Taxes withheld are regarded as being withheld uniformly through the year even if there was a big increase in withholding in the last few months . That is , one-fourth of the total amount withheld is deemed to have been paid in timely fashion as the quarterly installment due , and so one can avoid penalties for underpayment of tax in earlier quarterly installments . Be sure to include enough to cover the Social Security tax and Medicare tax owed by you on your self-employment income ( both the employer 's share and the employee 's share ) in your calculations when you ask your employer to withhold additional income tax from your wages . As you say , it all goes into the same bucket on your Form 1040 .
Extra contribution above your limit will be <URL> until you withdraw it ( unless you make the withdrawal before the closest Tax Day ) , in addition to the ( ordinary ) income tax on all the gains . The limits are for the contributions , not earnings . What you earn inside the account does n't affect your contribution limits .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
With BofA , you can just enter their address and it will mail them a check instead of needing to wire it to them . You do n't need your landlords permission to do this ( just let him know to expect the check in the mail ) . I did this for years , and other than the fact that the arrival date may vary by a day or two ( presumably due to mail or processing delays ) , had no issues with it . It is a great way to make sure your rent is paid on time ( if you 've got till the 5th , just set it up for the 1st and you should be fine ) . The same is true of most other banks who have online bill payment , with the main difference being the time variability of delivery . I 've not come across any that charge for this . It even saves you the cost of a stamp , envelope , and check . Update : There are also some marginal difference between banks about how records are kept and when the amount is deducted from your account . The records keeping probably works to your advantage if they ever claim you missed a payment ( you have record it was sent , even if they never cash it ) . The variation in deduction from your account ( i.e. when it is sent vs when it is cashed ) could play out different ways and is n't anything that big to worry about .
In general the answer is yes , you can pay it off early . However , check the terms of your lease for a " prepayment penalty . " They are becoming less common , but if you have such terms in your lease , you might incur a fee for paying early . Even then , if the prepayment penalty is less than the interest you would otherwise pay , it would still be worth it . Paying off loans is a positive thing for your credit . It wo n't negatively impact your credit to prepay .
If you want to subcontract some of your excess work to somebody else , you better be in business ! While some kinds of employees ( e.g. commissioned salespeople ) are permitted to deduct some expenses on their income tax , generally only a real business can deduct wages for additional employees , or the cost of services provided by subcontractors . Do you invoice your clients and charge <URL> ? Or do you tell your clients each pay period how many hours you worked and they compensate you through their payroll system like everybody else that walks through the door ? If you 're not invoicing and charging HST ( GST ) ( assuming you exceed the <URL> , and if you have too much work , you probably do ! ) , then perhaps your clients are treating you as an employee -- by default -- and withholding taxes , CPP , and EI so they do n't get in trouble ? After all , Canada Revenue Agency is likely to consider any person providing a service to a company to be an employee unless there is sufficient evidence to the contrary , and when there is n't enough evidence , it 's the company paying for the services that would be <URL> . Carefully consider what <URL> you are operating , or were intending to operate . It 's essential for your business to be structured appropriately if you want to hire or subcontract . You ought to be either self-employed as a sole proprietor , or perhaps incorporated if it makes more sense to your situation . Next , act accordingly . For instance , it 's likely that your business should be taking care of the source deductions , CPP , and EI . In fact , self-employed individuals should n't even be paying into EI -- an independent contractor would n't qualify to make an EI claim if they lost a contract . As an independent , one does n't have a job , one has a business , and EI does n't cover the business itself , only the employees that the business deals with at arm 's length . As a business owner , you would be considered non-arms-length , and exempt from EI . Growing your business in the way that you are suggesting is an important enough a step that you should seek professional advice in advance . Find a good accountant that deals with self-employed individuals &amp; small businesses and run all this by him . He should be able to guide you accordingly . Find a lawyer , too . A lawyer can guide you on how to properly subcontract others while protecting you and your business . Finally , be mindful of what it is you agreed to in your contract with your client : Do they expect all services to be performed by you , personally ? Even if it was n't written down who exactly would be performing the services , there may be an assumption it 's you . Some negotiation may be in order if you want to use subcontractors .
The usual advice is that an emergency fund should aim to cover something in the region of 3 to 6 months living expenses . The exact amount is obviously a judgement for you to make based on your own circumstances . Once you have a comfortable safety net there is little point in padding it further unless your circumstances change significantly , and you would probably be better off diverting your savings into longer term ( and hopefully better performing ) investments .
In New Jersey , <URL> is considered a temporary disability covered under the state disability benefits . According to the <URL> , you have 30 days from the first day of disability to file a claim : Is there a time limit for filing a disability claim ? Yes . You have 30 days from the first day of disability to file your claim . If your claim is received more than 30 days from the start of the disability , you must show good cause why the claim was not filed timely . You can attach a statement to the claim form ( DS-1 ) explaining why your claim is late . If good cause is not shown , benefits may be reduced or denied . For a normal pregnancy , the first day of disability is generally <URL> .
I would suggest you pay quarterly . Or , if you prefer , do the extra withholding . Do n't wait until the end of the year . My experience is that of having a day job with freelance work on the side . I 've spent a few years just freelancing , and I paid quarterly as requested to avoid the penalties . Now that I have a good day job again , my freelancing is just a small part of my income , and so I end up with a net return and no longer have to pay quarterly . You should n't wait until the end of the year to pay . This is assuming your wife is bringing in a decent income . The only scenario where you would want to wait is if her income is only a small amount ( such as my wife 's plans for an Etsy store ) . To the IRS , it does n't really make a difference whether you withhold extra or pay quarterly . Of those two choices , my preference is to pay quarterly - it 's easy to set up calendar reminders on the quarterly payment dates , which are always the same . I did the same as bstpierre when estimating my payments : just take last year 's tax ( for the business ) and divide by 4 ( adjusting for any obvious situational differences ) . That 's usually close enough . Paying quarterly instead of via withholding means you get to hold on to your money ( on average ) for 6 weeks longer . Granted , that does n't mean much with today 's interest rates , but it 's something . You may prefer the simpler accounting for withholding , though - you can " set and forget " .
Wisegeeks are explaining it well , Investopedia are mentioning it briefly . The difference is in the accounting treatment . The difference is hard to notice , but significant : for example if your company is making ice cream , then the earnings would be the revenue from selling ice cream minus all the costs to produce ice cream ( including materials , salary , equipment , transportation , etc ) . But the profits would also include other revenue ( for example - interest on cash in the bank ) , reduced by other expenses ( for example , the CEO 's vacation with the mistress to Argentina ) . Large difference between earnings and profits may suggest that the company spends a lot of money on unrelated activities ( for negative difference ) or has a lot of unrelated income ( for positive difference ) . Differences in accounting methods ( for example GAAP vs IFRS ) may also contribute to the difference between the revenue and the profits .
A bond has a duration that can be easily calculated . It 's the time weighted average of all the payments you 'll receive and helpful to understand the effect a change in rates will have on that instrument . The duration of a stock , on the other hand , is a forced construct to then use in other equations to help calculate , say , the summation of a dividend stream . I can calculate the duration of a bond and come up with an answer that 's not up for discussion or dispute . The duration of a stock , on the other hand , is n't such a number . Will J&amp;J last 50 more years ? Will Apple ? Who knows ?
Your tax rate is 20 % for turnover below # 300000 . So deducting your expenses and all the tax your accountant thinks you need to pay is # 450 . But you can claim relief on your tax payments . Visit the <URL> website to check your options under which you can claim relief . Frankly speaking for such a low turnover you should n't have opened a limited company . Or do you expect your turnover to increase in the coming years ? If your turnover is n't going to increase any further or if there is n't going to be a substantial increase , better to go as a <URL> or an umbrella company .
end question
start question
If earning as freelancer , is it better to be a Sole Trader or Limited Company ?
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
Good question , and increasingly common for professionals . If you 're intending to return to your starting point ( i.e. retire back in your " home " country ) then your existing retirement vehicles will be fine . However , if not , structured policies do n't transfer largely because of tax rules . Global firms have employees that shift about and sometimes have systems in place to permit their employees to move pensions with them . So a little forward planning may be required if you use an employer to smooth your emigration difficulties . Otherwise , international currency-denominated equities will make things more flexible . The US dollar does n't look too good right now and , in 30 years , may no longer be the world 's reserve currency , so you 'll probably want a currency basket to hedge that far ahead . That means buying equities on a range of different exchanges to gain access to different currencies when you sell ( or receive dividends ) . Fortunately , that is n't as difficult as it was a few years ago and numerous online investment services can permit you to trade around the world with a single account . See , for example : <URL> <URL> <URL> E * Trade , Sharebuilder , TD Ameritrade and Scottrade as options as well .
The United States taxes nonresident aliens on two types of income : First , a nonresident alien who is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is taxed on income that is effectively connected with that trade or business . Second , certain types of U.S.-source payments are subject to income tax withholding . The determination of when a nonresident alien is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is highly fact-specific and complex . However , keeping assets in a U.S. bank account should not be treated as a U.S. trade or business . A nonresident alien 's interest income is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30 percent under Section 1441 of the tax code . Interest on bank deposits , however , benefit from an exception under Section 1441 ( c ) ( 10 ) , so long as that interest is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business . Even though no tax needs to be withheld on interest on a bank deposit , the bank should still report that interest each year to the IRS on Form 1042-S . The IRS can then send that information to the tax authority in Brazil . Please keep in mind that state and local tax rules are all different , and whether interest on the bank deposits is subject to state or local tax will depend on which state the bank is in . Also , the United States does tax nonresident aliens on wages paid from a U.S. company , if those wages are treated as U.S.-source income . Generally , wages are U.S.-source income if the employee provides services while physically present in the United States . There are a few exceptions to this rule , but they depend on the amount of wages and other factors that are specific to the employee 's situation . This is an area where you should really consult with a U.S. tax advisor before the employment starts . Maybe your company will pay for it ?
The essence of your question is whether it 's worth 1000 to you to spread the payments over half a year . The longer payment plan is just a loan and buying the loan costs you more money . The question is whether you think the loan is a good price . I suspect it 's over-priced . The classic financial analysis would be whether you could get a better return on the loan ( opportunity costs ) . But we are talking about what are presumably not terribly big sums of money , so it may make more sense to analyze this amount of money in more personalized terms . In that case , remember to consider the convenience : is it significantly easier to budget with the 6-month plan ? Watch out for other costs to the loan , such as late penalties and other loan fees . If you find the periodic payments convenient ( or you have a short-horizon , high-yield investment ) , then the 6-month loan might work . Otherwise , if you can afford it , it makes more sense to buy the phone upfront .
Every 401 ( k ) has managers to make the stock choices . They all have different rates . You want to see that fidelity or Vangard is handling your 401 ( k ) . ( and I am sure others ) If you have a mega bank managing your funds or an insurance company odds are you are paying way to high management fees . So find out , the management fees should be available should be less than 1 % . They can get as high as 2 % ... Ouch
It is unique only in currently listed companies . The V symbol on the NYSE for example currently represents Visa . In the past it used to be for Vivendi Universal .
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
I am from Australia , so do n't know how relevant my answer will be for the US , but I 'll try anyway . If you are having your utilities ( electricity , gas and water usage ) included as a set fee as part of the rent , I would say that the landlord has taken the average cost for these utilities and added a buffer incase you and your house-mate use more than the average . They would probably then review the costs after a certain period to see if they need to incease them or not . If you think you are a low user of the utilities ( ie use water sparingly , turn off the lights when you leave a room , etc. ) then you may be better off paying for the utilities separetly . However , since you are sharing with someone else , and if you do n't know whether they are a high user or low user , then you may end up paying for some of their usage as well . These are the things you may wish to consider . In the end you will have to decide if you want to pay one single bill each week or month , or have all your costs separated so you know you are not over paying for something you may not be using . Some people feel that not knowing and making one single payment is easier and less stressful , while others may be concerned about not knowing and need to know all the amounts to put their minds at ease . You have to decide which type of person you are . Personally , I would be the type that wanted to know the exact amounts to pay , but as mentioned earlier , this is made harder by the fact that you will be sharing with someone else . To estimate the amount for each utility you will need to firstly estimate what your usage is for each utility and then multiply this by the rates charged by each utility company ( this can be found on one of the utility company 's previous bills ) . Maybe you can ask the Landlord that you wish to pay the utilities separately for the first couple of months and then decide if you wnated them included with the total rent after that . That way you can work out actual costs and decide which outcome is better for you . There is no harm in asking .
The total outlay in 1 . is $ 15552 and in 2 . is $ 15560 , so if you had the $ 4000 ( and ignoring forgone interest which is very low at the moment ) , then you 'd only need $ 8 of savings from the tax deduction for it to be worthwhile - I suspect they set it up so that the numbers would be the same modulo rounding errors . From your stats you probably do n't have the $ 4000 up front , so you 'd have to borrow it . Let 's guess it might mean a 25 % interest rate given your poor credit situation , and that you 'd pay most of it back in the last 2 of the 12 months , so it 'd cost you about $ 1000 . I guess your tax bracket may mean that the savings from the tax deduction still make that worthwhile , but I 'm not familiar enough with US tax to be sure .
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
If there is no match and you are disciplined enough to contribute without it coming directly out of your paycheck , dump the 401K . The reason : Most 401K plans have huge hidden fees built into the investment prices . You wo n't see them directly , but 3 % is not uncommon . 3 % is a horrible drag on your investment performance . Get an IRA or Roth IRA and pick something with low fees . Bonus : You will have a lot more investment choices !
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
does it still count as a capital gain or loss ? Yes . Is it essentially treated like you sold the stock at the price of the buy-out ? Yes . Do you still get a 1099-B from your broker ? Yes .
I do n't think it really matters , my understanding is that as a sole trader there is no distinction between your personal and business tax affairs . The distinction between your personal and business account is mainly for your own personal benefit to make it easier to differentiate between " wages " and retained earnings . If you want to maintain this distinction with regard to tax then you need to somehow differentiate between tax paid on your " wage " and tax paid on retained earnings . You could then either make two payments , or pay from either and transfer the difference from the other . Either way , it 's just a matter of perspective rather than something with a physical difference .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
Assuming neither one charges a fee and you are talking about automated non-cash , non-check transactions : Withdrawal is slightly better if you are 100 % sure you have the money ( or better yet , twice the money ) to cover it . It puts more incentive on the bank that is responsible for the act to do it correctly , because they will then be the bank holding the money . It also creates an added check because there is no possibility of having an error in transfer information result in sending your money to the wrong account . ( This is unlikely anyway , but not impossible depending on the bank and interface ) . Deposit may be slightly better if you are not , or if you are concerned about technical foul-ups at the bank . Depending on the bank , a deposit with insufficient funds may be cancelled rather than going through and then being cancelled , which could result in various banking fees ( returned item fees , overdraft fees , etc. . . ) . If there is a technical foul-up during a withdrawal , you run the risk of having banks get confused -- I know of a case where it took a major bank months to fix a withdrawal transaction that was denied the second time when they activated it twice , but the account balance mistakenly showed an extra thousand dollars for the duration .
Shares often come associated with a set of rights , such as ability to vote in the outcome of the company . Some shares do not have this right , however . With your ability to vote in the outcome of the company , you could help dictate that the company paid dividends at a point in time . Or many other varieties of outcomes . Also , if there were any liquidity events due to demand of the shares , this is typically at a much higher price than the shares are now when the company is private/closely held .
There are two kinds of dividend-reinvestment plans . The first is offered by the company you 're buying . If you want to be enrolled in this plan , you need to buy stock in the company directly , and maintain multiple accounts ( one for each company 's stock ) . The details will vary from company to company , and can have some major downsides , especially when it comes to figuring out how to do the tax reporting . You 'll need to find the prospectus and figure out whether you 're eligible for the plan by yourself . These plans are probably best for people whose main set of investments are managed by another party ( e.g. a university pension plan ) and who want to supplement this with some investment in just one or two companies that they know very well , because otherwise it 's hard to get good amounts of diversification . The second kind of plan is offered by your broker . Brokerages will charge you some money to trade stocks , but they are great because you can have one account with lots of stocks in one place . But unless your broker has a presence both in the US and the UK , you 'll probably need to transfer your holdings to a new institution sooner or later . This usually involves a fee for the outgoing transfer ( typically on the order of $ 50 - $ 100 ) . Additionally , the brokerage will liquidate any partial shares ( theoretically these shares do n't really exist individually ; whole shares are held by the brokerage , and interest in those shares ' value is assigned to people who hold partial shares ) . If you 're enrolled in a dividend reinvestment plan , chances are you 'll have some of these partial shares , and you wo n't gain or lose much by having it as ' stock ' for a few months instead of ' cash ' . In the short term , I would recommend either storing your money in other instruments , or ( if you think you can get much more than $ 50 + in earnings over the next several months - depends on how much you 've got ) buying individual stocks at a brokerage . When you move to the US and select a brokerage there , you can enroll in a dividend reinvestment plan offered by the broker and combine the cash you 've earned from dividends with future investment cash . There is no tax advantage to using a dividend reinvestment plan ( and indeed , if it is in a taxable account , it may complicate cost-basis reporting in the future if you have to report a large number of small purchases ) . This assumes you 're interested in owning individual stocks . It is also possible to find yourself a stock ETF or mutual fund . Most mutual funds are pretty good about letting you reinvest your dividends . If you 're interested in a diversified instrument where you can buy dividend-bearing US stocks , I 'd recommend that you obtain an account at <URL> ( which is renowned for low expense ratios on its mutual funds ) once you arrive in the US , and put money in a mutual fund such as the Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund or the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Index Fund . ( Naturally , you may also select other funds or fund providers based on what your research suggests meets your needs . Read the prospectus and understand the risks and potential returns . ) Of course , you should also consider whether a highly diversified investment strategy involving the whole US stock market ( or even the world stock market ) , and not just US dividend-oriented companies , might be more suitable for your needs . Or a blended portfolio involving both stocks and bonds .
I commend you for your desire to be a smart and engaged investor . Regarding the other comments , yes the market is unpredictable and dangerous , but such is everything that leads to profit . I am currently reading , <URL> - mighy be at your local library . The book is helpful because in explaining the options market , it covers basic stock methodologies and then builds on them as it pursues a quant 's math/computation based view of the market . The book is highly math oriented and discusses authors ' custom design scripts/alogrithms to analyze market behavior . See <URL> about technical analysis ( since it often directs short term trading decisisions ) .
end question
start question
Working from home in Vermont as W2 employee for employer in California . Need I file a CA tax return ?
California is not one of the states that have a " Connivence of Employer " rules that would force a non-resident ( telecommuter ) to pay state income tax As of 2013 , only New York , Pennsylvania , Delware , and Nebraska have these laws . If you spent a portion of the year physically working in CA , that would change things , but not for a 100 % telecommute situation
The Employee Benefits Security Administration within the US Department of Labor is tasked with keeping track of pension and 401K programs . The even have a website to search for <URL> : it helps participants and others find out whether a particular plan is in the process of being , or has been , terminated and the name of the Qualified Termination Administrator ( QTA ) responsible for the termination . The Employee Benefits Security Administration discuss all types of details regarding retirement programs . This document <URL> has a lot of details including this : If your former employer has gone out of business , arrangements should have been made so a plan official remains responsible for the payment of benefits and other plan business . If you are entitled to benefits and are unable to contact the plan administrator , contact EBSA electronically at askebsa.dol.gov or by calling toll free at 1-866-444-3272 . There are also <URL> spread thought the United States
If you received a distribution to buy , build , or rebuild a first home and the purchase or construction was canceled or delayed , you generally can contribute the amount of the distribution to an IRA within 120 days of the distribution . This contribution is treated as a rollover contribution to the IRA . This is from my friend , <URL> . See Page 51 , next to ' TIP ' in second col.
First of all , your spouse can never be your dependent . Rather , you can file Married Filing Separately or Married Filing Jointly with your spouse . You should never miss the deadline to file your taxes , even if you do n't owe taxes . If your wife can not apply for an ITIN along with the filing of taxes , then you must file as Married Filing Separately and amend your return later , once you get an ITIN or SSN . Yes , if she gets an SSN she can use it on past years ' taxes .
If you open a brokerage account , it 's certain that at the END of the calendar year a 1099-INT or 1099-DIV or related tax document will likely be sent to the IRS . What happens after that point is unknown . If you are asking if you will get " caught " by opening a brokerage account , no one here can answer that question . Based on the change in banking/securities laws after 9/11 there are many more reporting burdens that the brokerages and banks follow . If you are a US citizen , even if you are living abroad , as you already know <URL> ( even though most likely you will owe no tax ) . Whether you open a brokerage account or not , it wo n't change that obligation . The obligation is born out of your citizenship , not your activities in the US .
Medicare is part of the payroll taxes . Its a Federal tax used to fund the <URL> , and is paid by both the employee and the employer ( each pays 50 % of the tax ) . CA SDI ( State Disability Insurance ) is a California payroll tax used to fund the <URL> . It is a mandatory tax ( deductible as State income tax ) , but it can be replaced with a voluntary insurance program that would provide at least the same coverage ( VDI , which is non-deductible ) . There 's no earning cap for Medicare , there 's an earnings cap ( $ 100,880 for 2013 ) for SDI .
( Disclaimer : I am not an accountant nor a tax pro , etc. , etc. ) Yes , a Canadian corporation can function as a partial income tax shelter . This is possible since a corporation can retain earnings ( profits ) indefinitely , and corporate income tax rates are generally less than personal income tax rates . Details : If you own and run your business through a corporation , you can choose to take income from your corporation in one of two ways : as salary , or as dividends . Salary constitutes an expense of the corporation , i.e. it gets deducted from revenue in calculating corporate taxable income . No corporate income tax is due on money paid out as salary . However , personal income taxes and other deductions ( e.g. CPP ) would apply to salary at regular rates , the same as for a regular employee . Dividends are paid by the corporation to shareholders out of after-tax profits . i.e. the corporation first pays income tax on taxable income for the fiscal year , and resulting net income could be used to pay dividends ( or not ) . At the personal level , dividends are taxed less than salary to account for tax the corporation paid . The net effect of corporate + personal tax is about the same as for salary ( leaving out deductions like CPP . ) The key point : Dividends do n't have to be paid out in the year the money was earned . The corporation can carry profits forward ( retained earnings ) as long as it wants and choose to issue dividends ( or not ) in later years . Given that , here 's how would the partial income tax shelter works : Earn revenue for your corporation , doing whatever real business it does . * ( see far below ) Do not pay out all corporate revenue as salary . Leave all or most in the company . Revenue remaining in the company at the end of the year is subject to corporate income tax , likely at the corporate <URL> . e.g. Ontario , 2010 : 15.5 % . This rate is significantly less than the top personal income tax rate . Do not pay out those retained earnings as dividends . Leave all or most in the company . The company would invest retained earnings to generate a return . Next year , the company will owe tax on income generated by the invested retained earnings . ( Note : The tax man will want to see most of the company 's income being <URL> -- perhaps not a problem if it continues doing real business as in step 1 . ) Repeat . At some point , for you to personally realize income from the corporation , you can have the corporation declare a dividend . You 'll then have to pay personal income taxes on the income , at the dividend rates . But for as long as the money was invested inside the corporation , it was subject only to lesser corporate tax rates , not higher personal income tax rates . Hence the " partial " aspect of this kind of tax shelter . Or , if you 're lucky enough to find a buyer for your corporation , you could qualify for the <URL> on proceeds up to $ 750,000 when you sell a qualified small business corporation . This is the best exit strategy ; unfortunately , not an easy one where the business has no valuable assets ( e.g. a client base , or intellectual property . ) * The major sticking-point : You need to have real business revenue ! A regular employee ( of another company ) ca n't funnel his personally-earned employment income into a corporation just to take advantage of this mechanism . Sorry . : - /
You 're not subject to the US tax laws , and since the income is not US-sourced , it is not subject to withholding . Your employer does n't need any form , but if they insist - you can provide them a W8-BEN to certify your non-resident status . Keep in mind that if you do come to the US , the money you earn while in the US is US-sourced and subject to the US taxes and withholding , even if you 're non-resident .
There is no need to inform your current employer from a tax perspective - it does n't affect how they calculate PAYE tax and National Insurance on your salary . When you submit your tax return after the end of the tax year you will include the figures for your employment income alongside your earnings from self-employment so HMRC can calculate the correct tax due on the combined figures . Slightly off-topic but you should check what , if anything , your employment contract says about doing other work . Some employment contracts forbid outside work , or require you to inform your employer . There is more likely to be an issue if there is an actual or potential conflict of interest between your employed and freelance roles .
Does the money lending between us need to be reported in our tax reports ? No . Will he be taxed more because of lending the money to me ? Yes . Will I be taxed more because of borrowing the money from him ? No . How shall we report it so as to minimize our taxes ? You can not . What is reported on your tax returns is the income . A loan is not an income , so nothing gets reported . However , when you repay the loan , assuming it has interest , the lender has income : the interest . Interest income is reported on <URL> ( or , in the case of non-resident for tax purposes , on <URL> ) . It is taxed as ordinary income , and since you 're both foreigners - the lender should look into the treaty provisions that might be relevant . Generally it is not exempt from taxable income based on treaty exemptions for students ( which is only for earned income ) , but there might be other rules in the treaty regarding interest income . If there 's no ( fair market or higher ) interest , then there 's " assumed " interest at the <URL> , which is considered a gift . If it amounts to more than the yearly gift exemption , the lender may be liable for <URL> ( depending on the lender 's and your status , and again - see treaties ) . " Loan " without an obligation to repay and without actual repaying will also be considered a gift for tax purposes . If the lender has no intentions of having the loan repaid ( i.e. : making a gift ) , it will be better to pay your tuition bills instead of actually giving you the money : tuition is exempt from gift tax . Talk to a CPA/EA licensed in your state for a proper tax advice on this issue .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
It 's the same result either way . Say the bills are $ 600 , and you are reimbursed $ 400 . You 'd be able to write off $ 400 as part of the utilities that are common expenses , but then claim the $ 400 as income . I 'd stick with that , and have contemporaneous records supporting all cash flow . You also can take 2/3 of any other maintenance costs that most homeowners ca n't . Like snow removal , lawn care , etc. .
You file in every State you worked in . Technically , while you 're in a State and you work - your earnings are sourced to that State . Also , since you were domiciled in New Jersey - you file there as well , as your residency State . From the time you moved to NY - you should check whether you 're still considered a resident in NJ , but you 're likely to be considered a resident in NY , so you file a part-year return there for that period . It is possible to be considered resident in more than one State at the same time , so it may get even more complicated .
Sorry , but whether or not you drive in New York , the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles requires you to get a license in New York and surrender your California license . <URL> : If you become a <URL> of NYS , you must get a NYS driver license within 30 days and surrender your out-of-state driver license . Normally , you can not have a NYS driver license and a driver license from another state , but there are exceptions . It is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license ( CDL ) .
Did it show just your address , or was your name on it as well ? You did n't share how long you 've lived at the address either , so it makes me wonder whether a former tenant is the one who filed that paperwork . It 's also possible that someone used your address when making a filing . Whether that was deliberate or accidental is hard to discern , as is their intent if it was intentional . It could be accidental -- someone picked " CA " for California when they meant to pick " CO " for Colorado or " CT " for Connecticut ... These things do happen . It ca n't make you feel any better about the situation though . You should be able to go online to the California Secretary of State 's website ( <URL> ) and look up everything filed by the LLC with the state . That will show who the founders were and everything else that is a matter of public record on the LLC . At the very least , you can obtain the registered agent 's name and address for the LLC , which you can then use to contact them and ask why your address is listed as the LLC 's business address . Once you have that info , you can then contact the Secretary of State and tell them it is n't you so they can do whatever is necessary to correct this . This does n't sound like a difficult matter to clear up , but it 's important to do your homework first and gather as much information as you can before you call the state . Answering " I do n't know " wo n't get you very far with them compared to having the best answers you can about where the mistake started . I hope this helps . Good luck !
As long as the baby was born by December 31 , 2015 , he can be claimed as a dependent by his parents for tax year 2015 . He should definitely be claimed as a dependent ; it will save them money on their taxes , and there is no reason not to . The baby does not need to file a tax return , but he does need a Social Security number in order for the parents to claim him as a dependent and claim child tax credits . Often Social Security numbers are applied for at the hospital right at birth , so he might already have one , but if for some reason this was not done , they will need to visit a Social Security office to apply for one . The question about whether or not a married couple should file jointly has nothing to do with the fact that they had a baby . If they are planning on filing jointly , we do n't have any information that would suggest this is a bad idea .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
California is not one of the states that have a " Connivence of Employer " rules that would force a non-resident ( telecommuter ) to pay state income tax As of 2013 , only New York , Pennsylvania , Delware , and Nebraska have these laws . If you spent a portion of the year physically working in CA , that would change things , but not for a 100 % telecommute situation
There 's a very simple way to answer this , even before you start TurboTax : Go to each State 's tax authority website ( for example , <URL> ) Look for a section that answers the question " Do I need to file ? " ( for example , <URL> ) Read the information there and decide whether or not you have to file for that particular state . As far as I know , most states have separate instructions for residents , non-residents , and part-year residents . Yes , it is possible that you may end up filing in quite a few states . I would do this before you buy the state modules in TurboTax because it may not be worth paying for them if you do n't need to file .
You can OPEN whatever accounts you wish , you can only FUND your retirement accounts ( i.e. IRA + Roth IRA ) up to the annual contribution limit . Any given individual 's annual contribution limit for 2013/14 is $ 5,500 ( $ 6,500 if you are older than 50 ) . Remember you can open and fund any account ( as if it were done in the previous year ) prior to the tax filing deadline of the given year . E.g. . You can still open 2013 accounts until you file your 2013 tax return . Examples : During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 2,500 . You can open a Roth IRA in 2013 and fund it $ 3,000 . For a total of $ 5,500 ( contribution limit ) . During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . During 2014 you open a Roth IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . Your spouse is allowed to do the same , effectively doubling the contribution limit . Mind you your contributions to not exceed your income in the same taxable year . Assuming you are filing jointly this " doubled " limit can even be met even if only one spouse has earned income ! AS SPOUSES , the total combined annual contribution limit is " doubled . " So $ 11,000 normally and $ 13,000 if you are each 50 + ( $ 12,000 if one < 50 and one 50 + ) . All this is to say , as an individual you are allowed up to $ 5,500 / 6,500 per year divided among whatever accounts you choose and up to $ 11,000 / $ 13,000 per year as spouses ( two individuals ) .
end question
start question
What are the cons to using a brokerage account for day to day banking ?
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
The usual advice is that an emergency fund should aim to cover something in the region of 3 to 6 months living expenses . The exact amount is obviously a judgement for you to make based on your own circumstances . Once you have a comfortable safety net there is little point in padding it further unless your circumstances change significantly , and you would probably be better off diverting your savings into longer term ( and hopefully better performing ) investments .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
Yes , you can do everything that Fidelity promises with the cash management account . Your benefits are : Free checks ATM fees reimbursed Free bill pay Free account Relatively easy to set up direct deposit or ACH transfers . Free debit card The downsides ? They do n't have branches everywhere , so if you do need to see a person , you may not be able to do so . Likewise , you wo n't be able to do cash deposits . Before anyone says it 's too good to be true , brokerages like Schwab and Fidelity offer this because the hope is that you 'll end up establishing or using other services they offer , so they do have ways to profit from this . Still , compared to the joke that is many other banks , it 's a good deal provide you 're aware of the two downsides listed above this .
Some companies have banks and brokerages that are completely separate systems . So you could be actually running ACH transactions between two different banking entities . Bank of America used to have significant latency between BoA accounts , because they ran into delays integrating Fleet , BankSouth and BoA systems .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
To clarify , the IRS defines a qualified distribution is a distribution that 's used to pay for a <URL> . In the context of 529 plans , these are Tuition and fees required to enroll at or attend an eligible educational institution Course-related expenses , such as fees , books , supplies , and equipment that are required for the courses at the eligible educational institution . These items must be required of all students in your course of instruction . savingforcollege.com has a <URL> for tax-free 529 distributions . Benefits You mostly covered this benefit in your question , but the tax-exempt growth is a major benefit . Contributions to a 529 plan grow tax-free , and assuming you use the funds for educational purposes , you 're not required to pay taxes on the earnings or withdrawals . This is less of a benefit if you 're looking to start grad school immediately or in the next year or so , but it 's still a benefit . Depending on which state you live in , your state <URL> if you choose to invest in a state plan . This might be useful if you 're starting grad school and do n't have enough time to achieve a lot of tax-free growth . If your state offers tax deductions on your contributions , your account can function as a pass-through account , and if you itemize , you 'll reap a tax savings on your contributions to the plan anyway . Drawbacks As you said , one potential drawback is that if you do n't use up the money in the account and decide to withdraw the remainder for personal use , you 're required to pay taxes on it in addition to the 10 % penalty on the earnings . However , you can change the beneficiary of the plan from yourself to someone else , and the new beneficiary can still take advantage of tax-free growth on the remaining funds and use these earnings for educational purposes . Depending on the value of the account , <URL> , so consult a tax professional before doing this just to make sure . Depending on the 529 plans available to you , you may face fees that negate any potential tax deductions . If you have a longer horizon , you may be able to choose an asset allocation that earns you enough tax-free growth to negate the effect of these fees , but with a short horizon , it 's definitely something worth considering . If you choose to invest in an out-of-state 529 plan , your local state <URL> . Some states offer 529 prepaid tuition programs ; these are usually only for undergraduate education , and some of them require that all tuition credits be used by the age of 30 . Obviously , check to make sure that whatever plan you invest in ( if it 's a prepaid tuition program ) will work for your graduate education and that you 're aware of any limitations to its use . Other points I mentioned growth above . If you have a short horizon , it 's probably best to choose an asset allocation that will provide you some stability and maybe some income , but not a high level of risk that could cost you a lot of the value . <URL> recommends bond and/or interest funds instead of equity funds for people with a short time horizon . I want to mention one more point because a ) a lot of people do n't know about it , and b ) it 's somewhat complicated , but can be beneficial in some cases . If you incur an unrealized loss in your 529 account and decide to cash out the account ( perhaps because you need the money now to pay your educational expenses and ca n't wait for a market reversal ) , <URL> . From the section titled " Losses on [ Qualified Tuition Plan ] Investments " : If you have a loss on your investment in a QTP account , you may be able to take the loss on your income tax return . You can take the loss only when all amounts from that account have been distributed and the total distributions are less than your unrecovered basis . Your basis is the total amount of contributions to that QTP account . You claim the loss as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 23 ( Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 9 ) , subject to the 2 % - of-adjusted-gross-income limit . It 's worth at least knowing about something like this in the event that you invest in a 529 plan with a short horizon but lose money right before you need it . The situation may be <URL> if you receive state-level deductions , you 're subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax , etc. . If you find yourself faced with this situation , talk to a tax professional with experience dealing with 529 plans who has heard of this deduction .
For a while I tried shopping multiple grocery stores , checking fliers each week from three different stores and then making the trip to all three stores to save ten cents on each item . After a couple months , I decided it just was n't worth it . So , I picked my favorite store . I shop once a week , after reviewing the flier and making a list . I clip <URL> and try to only buy what 's on my list . ( I confess that coupons sometimes get me to buy a brand or item I would n't have otherwise ... it 's my weakness ! ) The biggest place that we save money though , is by paying attention to meat prices . I know that chicken and pork go on sale for $ 1.99 / lb every 4 to 6 weeks at my grocery store . When it does , I buy a enough to last until the next sale , and freeze it in single-meal portions . Steak and fish are special treats , but on the rare occasion that they 're less than $ 4/lb , I 'll buy those . We also try to limit our meat consumption to every-other-day . It 's not worth it for me to obsess over the price of ketchup that I buy twice a year , but on expensive items like meat , and items we use daily , I become familiar with their regular prices and sale prices , and buy extra when it 's on sale . If , like me , you do n't have room in your brain to keep track of the prices of everything , stick with the things you spend the most on , either because they 're expensive , or you buy a lot .
fibonacci levels ( retracements , expansions , arcs ) are all arbitrary numbers with no statistical significance . that said thousands of traders world over use , view and depend on fib numbers in their trading ranging from forex , stock commodities etc the point is if it 's traded a fibonacci number has been used on it , because of this unanimity on their significance &amp; application the fibonacci 's thus act as valid anchors since so many traders are looking at the same levels ( self-fulfilling prophecy ) . the values of the fib numbers are all equally significant i.e the 23.6 . 38.2 , 50 , or 61.8 are statistically all equally likely to occur . you just have to be vigilant as your trade approaches the fib levels .
I 've tried Mint , and I 've tried Quicken . Now , I think Quicken is an annoying , crashy little piece of software , but it is also quite capable ; overall I think it has the features you want . You can enter your bills , broken down by category , in advance . You can enter your paychecks , broken down by category ( gross income , federal income tax , state income tax , social security , SDI , transfers to tax-protected 401 ( k ) account , etc ) in advance . You can enter in your stock trades and it can tell you how much you 'll need to end up paying in capital gains taxes . You can even enter in your stock option vesting schedule in advance ( it 's a royal pain because you ca n't go back and change anything without deleting everything , but you can do it ) . It 'll forecast your bank account balance in all of your bank accounts in advance with a shiny chart . It 'll even model your loans , if you set it up right . I did n't do too much with the " budgeting " tools per se , but the account-balances-daily features sound like the closest thing to what you 're looking for that 's likely to exist . The only thing that 's a trifle tricky is that transfers from one account to another may take multiple days ( hello , ACH ) and you 'll have to decide whether to record them at departure or arrival .
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
If you have the ability to pay online with a guaranteed date for the transaction , go for it . My bank will let me pay a bill on the exact date i choose . When using the mail , of course , this introduces a level of risk . I asked about rates as the US currently has a near zero short term rate . At 3.6 % , $ 10,000 , this is $ 30/month or $ 1/day you save by delaying . Not huge , but better in your pocket than the bank 's .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
Say you have a $ 2000 credit card bill due two weeks from today . If you are paid every other week , it 's today 's check that will pay it . Why not just get it off your desk ? You ca n't spend it on anything else , so it 's not really on hand as liquid cash to use . Much of my life , savings had a 5 % rate of return . So , $ 100/yr or $ 2 per week on this money . If you have a bill pay that offers a same day direct payment , use it . But if you are mailing checks , the game of paying at the last moment will cost you with just one mistake . I respect how that $ 2/wk adds up over a full budget , but rates are near zero , and the $ 10K in my checking returns pennies . I visit and set up my bill pay up each week and pay anything outstanding . Even if it 's set for two weeks out , I enter it in the check register as gone .
How long is a piece of string ? This will depend on many variables . How many trades will you make in a day ? What income would you be expecting to make ? What expectancy do you need to achieve ? Which markets you will choose to trade ? Your first step should be to develop a Trading Plan , then develop your trading rules and your risk management . Then you should back test your strategy and then use a virtual account to practice losing on . Because one thing you will get is many losses . You have to learn to take a loss when the market moves against you . And you need to let your profits run and keep your losses small . A good book to start with is Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van Tharp . It will teach you about Expectancy , Money Management , Risk Management and the Phycology of Trading . Two thing I can recommend are : 1 ) to look into position and trend trading and other types of short term trading instead of day trading . You would usually place your trades after market close together with your stops and avoid being in front of the screen all day trying to chase the market . You need to take your emotion out of your trading if you want to succeed ; 2 ) do n't trade penny stocks , trade commodities , FX or standard stocks , but keep away from penny stocks . Just because you can buy them for a penny does not mean they are cheap .
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
ATM to ATM transfer is not possible . Do you mean to say account to account transfer using an ATM machine ? Online transfer between account or between an account and credit card is possible . Almost every Bank offers Online transfers using Internet Banking . The person wishing to initiate a Debit must subscribe to Internet Banking . Once you login to Internet Banking , you would need to add beneficiary Account [ account where you need to transfer funds ] . Adding of Beneficiary at times takes a Day for the Beneficiary to be activated . Once the Beneficiary is activated , you can transfer funds . The funds are credited to Beneficiary account within 2 hrs . If the both the accounts are in same bank , then some Bank 's ATM 's [ HDFC / Citi etc ] allow you to transfer funds between account using the Bank 's ATM .
Mutual funds ( that are not exchange-traded funds ) often need to sell some of their securities to get cash when a shareholder redeems some shares . Such transactions incur costs that are paid ( proportionally ) by all the shareholders in the fund , not just the person requesting redemption , and thus the remaining shareholders get a lower return . ( Exchange-traded funds are traded as if they are shares of common stock , and a shareholder seeking a redemption pays the costs of the redemption ) . For this reason , many mutual funds do not allow redemptions for some period of time after a purchase , or purchases for some period of time after a redemption . The periods of time are chosen by the fund , and are stated in the prospectus ( which everyone has acknowledged has been received before an investment was made ) .
Each bank builds or buys their own bill pay system , so answers are not universal ( try your banks bill pay system out before fully transferring over , if I did n't like mine I 'd get a new bank ) , but for your questions in order : All of my bills have been paid as scheduled , but I have had long term issues getting bills electronically delivered from one credit card company to my bank . I have to manually pay this bill every month , but it takes a few seconds to make the payment through the bill pay site , rather than the time it takes to procure checks , envelopes and stamps . I need to call my banks online support to fix the above issue , but I have n't yet , since it works well enough . All payments can be easily canceled . The hassle part of switching banks comes in re-entering all your accounts at the new bank and learning the user interface for their bill pay system . Some payment schedules might take time to register in their system , so you might need to snail mail a bill in between . Other things to consider include : Check your bank account at least twice a month to verify what payments have been made ( this is just good general advice ) . I use bill pay to automatically pay the minimum payment so I avoid forgetting to pay my credit card bill . I go over the bill at least monthly to make sure all payments are authorized and correct , then manually issue full payment through the bill payment system . I strongly recommend a push vs. pull method for bill pay ; that is , pushing money from your bank account to pay bills , rather than allowing billers to pull money from your account . This limits the number of companies that you directly give your bank account information to , and makes it easier to hold onto your money when you dispute a mistake they made . It also puts all payment information in once central place so you can keep track of all payment schedules together . Never use a paper check or electronic transfer to pay off a belligerent creditor . After a cell phone provider hit me with inaccurate extra fees , I automatically pay cell bills with a credit card . That is one extra layer of defense to dispute charges through .
end question
start question
How is yahoo finance P/E Ratio TTM calculated ?
The correct p/e for bp.l is 5.80 . Bp.l is on the London stock exchange and prices are in local currency . The share price of 493 is reported in pence ( not dollars ) . The EPS is reported in pounds . Using .85 pounds = 85 pence , you calculate the EPS as follows : 493.40 / 85 = 5.80 PE Yahoo totally screwed up . They converted the .85 pounds into US dollars ( $ 1.34 ) but did n't convert the 493 pence . By using the 493 as dollars , they got 493.9 / 1.34 = 368 pe ! Notice that Yahoo reports the American Depository Shares ( symbol ' BP ' ) with an EPS of $ 8.06 . That correctly reflects that there are 6 shares of BP.l per ADS ( 1.34 * 6 = 8.04 ) . But why is the share price listed at $ 46.69 ? Well ... 493 GBp ( pence ) = 4.93 pounds 4.93 pounds = 7.73 USD 7.73 USD * 6 shares per ADS = 46.38 USD
Yahoo Finance does n't offer this functionality ; I remember looking for this exact feature a couple of years ago for coffee futures . Your best option is to look at the <URL> . However , Yahoo Finance 's future chains are n't always complete , since you 'll notice that the futures chain for NYMEX crude oil omit the June contract . The contract <URL> , but Yahoo does n't list it in its own futures chain or in the <URL> .
There is an arithmetically calculated value for the difference , or spread , between the futures contract price and the actual cash value of the underlying stocks ( in the appropriate weighting ) comprising the S&amp;P 500 . This spread is a function of current short term interest rates and the time remaining until the futures contract expires . Whenever the spread is at fair value , there is no benefit from owning the futures instead of the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks , or vice-versa . When the <URL> , by a large enough margin , then ... either stocks or futures will become more attractive than the other , and they [ traders in size ] will sell one and buy the other . The spread varies all day , because the futures contract and the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks trade independently of each other . The futures trade in Chicago at the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . The underlying S&amp;P 500 stocks trade on the NYSE in New York , a different marketplace . Supply and demand for ALL 500 stocks in the S&amp;P index determine the cash price of the S&amp;P 500 . Sometimes , there are short term discrepancies , which might seem to present an opportunity for arbitrage . When those discrepancies happen , and they can be due to many insignificant things e.g. the normal progression or " rolling over " of futures contract expiration dates , the spread can deviate from fair value . These differences are not large in magnitude , and the market quickly reacts removing any discount or premium . So there really is n't a chance for most investors to benefit from this sort of arbitrage . This is the formula for the fair value of the spread : where F = break even futures price S = spot index price i = interest rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) d = dividend rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) t = number of days from today 's spot value date to the value date of the futures contract . Something like <URL> presents more opportunity for mild arbitrage . To directly answer your question , no , shorting the S&amp;P futures wo n't move the underlying prices of the 500 stocks . The relationship goes in the other direction i.e. the price of the 500 stocks , with the exception of tiny variations like I described above , are what drive the price of the futures contract .
You pay taxes on capital gains when you realize your gains by selling the investment property . Also , in the US , taxes on capital gains are computed at special rates depending on your current income level , and so when you realize your gains two years from now , you will pay taxes on the gains at the special rate then applicable to your income level for the year of sale . Remember also that the US Congress can change the tax laws at any time between now and the time you sell your stocks , and so the rates you are looking at now may have changed too .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
The correct p/e for bp.l is 5.80 . Bp.l is on the London stock exchange and prices are in local currency . The share price of 493 is reported in pence ( not dollars ) . The EPS is reported in pounds . Using .85 pounds = 85 pence , you calculate the EPS as follows : 493.40 / 85 = 5.80 PE Yahoo totally screwed up . They converted the .85 pounds into US dollars ( $ 1.34 ) but did n't convert the 493 pence . By using the 493 as dollars , they got 493.9 / 1.34 = 368 pe ! Notice that Yahoo reports the American Depository Shares ( symbol ' BP ' ) with an EPS of $ 8.06 . That correctly reflects that there are 6 shares of BP.l per ADS ( 1.34 * 6 = 8.04 ) . But why is the share price listed at $ 46.69 ? Well ... 493 GBp ( pence ) = 4.93 pounds 4.93 pounds = 7.73 USD 7.73 USD * 6 shares per ADS = 46.38 USD
Create an account called , say , " Paycheck " . When you get paid , create an entry with your gross income as a deposit . For each deduction in your paycheck , create a minus ( or expense ) entry . After doing that , what will be left in the Paycheck account will be your net income . Simply transfer this amount to the real account your paycheck goes into ( your checking account , probably ) . Almost all the time , the value of your Paycheck account will be 0 . It will be nonzero only for a moment every two weeks ( or however often you get paid ) . I do n't know if this is the standard way of doing it ( in the professional accounting world ) . It 's a way I developed on my own and it works well , I think . I think it 's better than just adding a deposit entry in your checking account for your net income as it lets you keep track of all your deductions . ( I use Quicken for the Mac . Before they added a Paycheck feature , I used this method . Then they removed the Paycheck feature from the latest version of Quicken for the Mac and I now use this method again . )
One thing is the price of the option , and another is the strike of the option . The price of the option is the price to sell or buy the option . The strike of the option is the price that you can exercise the option at expiration , meaning the price you can buy your wife 's company stocks using the option . Is $ 2 the strike or the price of the option ? If that is the case then that should be the price that you can buy your wife 's company stock ... If the stock is at $ 10 then the price of the option itself is $ 10 - $ 2 = $ 8 , i.e. you wo n't be charged $ 8 but you should be paid $ 8 per option . Of course the previous only holds if the strike is $ 2 ... which is the info I am missing .
In the context of EDV , 4.46 is the indicated dividend rate . The indicated dividend rate is the rate that would be paid per share throughout the next year , assuming dividends stayed the same as prior payment . sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
In the US , expense ratios are stated in the Prospectus of the fund , which you must acknowledge as having read before the fund will accept your money to invest . You never acknowledged any such thing ? Actually you did when you checked the box saying that you accept the Terms of the Agreement when you made the investment . The expense ratio can be changed by vote of the Board of Directors of the fund but the change must be included in the revised Prospectus of the fund , and current investors must be informed of the change . This can be a direct mailing ( or e-mailing ) from the mutual fund or an invitation to read the new Prospectus on the fund 's website for those who have elected to go paperless . So , yes , the expense ratio can be changed ( though not by the manager of the fund , e.g. just because he/she wants a bigger salary or a fancier company car , as you think ) , and not without notice to investors .
You should not have a problem by filing electronically , IF the pension plan distribution you received was from a pre-tax 401-k type plan , and you rolled all of it into another company 's similar pre-tax type pension plan OR rolled it all into a simple IRA within the IRS specified period of time , which I do n't recall . As long as there are no tax implications to the pension plan distribution , you 'll just need to make sure and keep your tax forms with a paper copy of your electronic return . The yearly wage statement will indicate that you received a pension plan distribution , and if you had no withholding from it because of the rollover , that will be indicated . Similarly , you 'll receive a statement from whomever is now the custodian for your distribution , and that will give you documentation should you ever need to present it to the IRS . There are many special cases , however , which I do not cover e.g. if you did keep some amount of the distribution , or if some was taxable and some was not , and so on .
You should look into a <URL> : A home equity line of credit ( often called HELOC and pronounced HEE-lock ) is a loan in which the lender agrees to lend a maximum amount within an agreed period ( called a term ) , where the collateral is the borrower 's equity in his/her house . Because a home often is a consumer 's most valuable asset , many homeowners use home equity credit lines only for major items , such as education , home improvements , or medical bills , and choose not to use them for day-to-day expenses .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
While Rocky 's answer is correct in the big picture there is another factor here to keep in mind : The disruption while you 're waiting to resolve it . If a fraudster gets your card and drains your account you 'll get your money back -- but there will be a period while they are investigating that it wo n't be available . For this reason I avoid debit card transactions and only use credit cards . If the fraudster gets your credit card you might lose access while they investigate but you do n't lose access to your bank account .
In general , a warrant is a security issued by a company allowing the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of shares at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange traded options ( i.e. calls and puts ) in that they are issued by the company that issued the underlying shares that they allow you to purchase whereas calls and puts are generally written by other investors . The other big difference between options and warrants is that options are standardized . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange has basically the same set of rules governing use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kinds of stipulations that must occur before you can execute , such as price events ( e.g. only if the stock hits a certain price ) or business events ( e.g. only if the company elects to defer payment on a bond issued at the same time as the warrant ) . Warrants are generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investors since each warrant issue is different and you often need a lawyer or other qualified professional to fully understand all to possible outcomes .
Many of the major indices retreated today because of this news . Why ? How do the rising budget deficits and debt relate to the stock markets ? It does seem strange that there is a correlation between government debt and the stock market . But I could see many reasons for the reaction . The downgrade by S&amp;P may make it more expensive for the government to borrow money ( i.e. higher interest rates ) . This means it becomes more expensive for the government to borrow money and the government will probably need to raise taxes to cover the cost of borrowing . Rising taxes are not good for business . Also , many banks in the US hold US government debt . Rising yields will push down the value of their holdings which in turn will reduce the value of US debt on the businesses ' balance sheets . This weakens the banks ' balance sheets . They may even start to unload US bonds . Why is there such a large emphasis on the S&amp;P rating ? I do n't know . I think they have proven they are practically <URL> . That 's just my opinion . Many , though , still think they are a credible ratings agency . What happens when the debt ceiling is reached ? Theoretically the government has to stop borrowing money once the debt ceiling is reached . If this occurs and the government does not raise the debt ceiling then the government faces three choices : Raise taxes Default on debt payments Reduce spending
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
Short answer Your student loan payments are reported at the amount you currently pay . Specifically , your payments affect your back-end debt-to-income ratio , which is the ratio of what you pay to service all of your debts to your gross income . The amount you would be paying were you not on an IBR is n't relevant . Long answer Your <URL> is the monthly ratio of what you pay to service your debts to your gross income . Specifically , there are <URL> , and they differ based on which debt payments they incorporate . Housing ratio/front-end ratio - The percentage of your income that goes towards housing costs . If you 're a renter , these housing costs include your rent . If you 're a homeowner , these housing costs include mortgage payments , both principal and interest , taxes , insurance , etc. . Utilities are not included . Total ratio/back-end ratio - The percentage of your income that goes towards paying the cost of all your debts . This ratio includes the housing costs included in the front-end ratio , as well as all recurring debt payments , e.g. car loans , student loans , credit cards , housing costs of other properties you own , etc. . The student loan payments you currently make affect the back-end debt-to-income ratio . You 'll probably need to provide documentation from your student loan provider that shows you 're on an income-based repayment plan ; otherwise , your payments might look lower than another loan provider might expect ( since IBR plans usually have lower payments because you need to show a certain level of financial hardship to qualify ) . The situation is more complicated if you have deferred student loans and you 're applying for a home loan . Depending on the loan program you 're applying for , some programs will use a percentage of the outstanding debt as a projected student loan payment , while others will ignore your loans if they 're deferred for more than the first year of the mortgage . Conventional loan providers may use any of these methods to estimate your future monthly payments .
end question
start question
How much should I spend on my expenses such as housing , groceries , entertainment , ect ?
My answer will provide a general guideline , which is what I believe you are asking for . You must keep in mind , a budget is not a one size fits all type of deal and should be personalized . With that said ; lets begin . All my numbers will be based on your ' take home ' cash , meaning the money you get after taxes , 401k contribution , or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . I also assume you have no revolving debt . If you spend less on one category you can always transfer that amount onto another . So for example , if you take public transportation and your cost is less then 15 % you can allocate the remaining amount between which ever categories you like . Your savings budget will also depend on your age , investment returns , and other various risk factors you might be exposed to . If your employer does not provide you with a 401k or contribute to any retirement plan I suggest you consider raising the amount in the savings category . The most important thing is to stay within your budget and realizing that you should spend money in this order - > Necessities , Savings , Luxuries . You have a 2 % margin of error for any times you may go over budget . Cutting into that 2 % should be a warning sign that tells you ; " hey , I 'm going over budget I need to cut back on something " . So do n't make a habit of it , otherwise you may find your self quickly going past that 2 % line and falling into debt . A note on medical expenses : The 5 % I suggested may vary depending on where you live , your current state of health , your income , and what options your employer offers for healthcare . You may find your self spending less or more . Your health is considered a necessity , so if you find your self spending more you should adjust your budget accordingly . Another budget is the <URL> rule . In this budget you start with your after-tax income not your ' take home ' cash . So do not deduct any 401k contributions or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . The breakdown :
The deductible lodging is only during the move itself , i.e. : if you 're driving cross country and staying in hotels on the way - these are deductible .
When determining if you should refinance , you need to figure out how long it will take to make up the closing costs from interest saved under the new loan . At 4.5 % you are currently paying approx . $ 586 in interest each month . At 3.25 % you would be paying approx . $ 423 to begin with . So , the first month , you will save about $ 160 in interest . The amount of interest paid each month will change based on how much principal you apply to the loan . However , you will be around $ 160/mo in interest savings for the first several months . This would mean you break even point would be around 6 months . I would recommend the refinance to 3.25 % assuming the $ 800 figure for closing costs is accurate . You will save several thousand dollars in interest payments over the next 5 years if you do refinance .
I have about $ 1K in savings , and have been told that you should get into investment and saving for retirement early . I make around $ 200 per week , which about $ 150 goes into savings . That 's $ 10k per year . The general rule of thumb is that you should have six months income as an emergency fund . So your savings should be around $ 5k . Build that first . Some argue that the standard should be six months of living expenses rather than income . Personally , I think that this example is exactly why it is income rather than living expenses . Six months of living expenses in this case would only be $ 1250 , which wo n't pay for much . And note that living expenses can only be calculated after the fact . If your estimate of $ 50 a week is overly optimistic , you might not notice for months ( until some large living expense pops up ) . Another problem with using living expenses as the measure is that if you hold down your living expenses to maximize your savings , this helps both measures . Then you hit your savings target , and your living expenses increase . So you need more savings . By contrast , if your income increases but your living expenses do not , you still need more savings but you can also save more money . Does n't really change the basic analysis though . Either way you have an emergency savings target that you should hit before starting your retirement savings . If you save $ 150 per week , then you should have around $ 4k in savings at the beginning of next year . That 's still low for an emergency fund by the income standard . So you probably should n't invest next year . With a living expenses standard , you could have $ 6250 in savings by April 15th ( deadline for an IRA contribution that appears in the previous tax year ) . That 's $ 5000 more than the $ 1250 emergency fund , so you could afford an IRA ( probably a Roth ) that year . If you save $ 7500 next year and start with $ 4k in savings ( under the income standard for emergency savings ) , that would leave you with $ 11,500 . Take $ 5500 of that and invest in an IRA , probably a Roth . After that , you could make a $ 100 deposit per week for the next year . Or just wait until the end . If you invested in an IRA the previous year because you decided use the living expenses standard , you would only have $ 6500 at the end of the year . If you wait until you have $ 6750 , you could max out your IRA contribution . At that point , your excess income for each year would be larger than the maximum IRA contribution , so you could max it out until your circumstances change . If you do n't actually save $ 3k this year and $ 7500 next year , do n't sweat it . A college education is enough of an investment at your age . Do that first , then emergency savings , then retirement . That will flip around once you get a better paying , long term job . Then you should include retirement savings as an expected cost . So you 'd pay the minimum required for your education loans and other required living expenses , then dedicate an amount for retirement savings , then build your emergency savings , then pay off your education loans ( above the minimum payment ) . This is where it can pay to use the more aggressive living expenses standard , as that allows you to pay off your education loans faster . I would invest retirement savings in a nice , diversified index fund ( or two since maintaining the correct stock/bond mix of 70 % -75 % stocks is less risky than investing in just bonds much less just stocks ) . Investing in individual stocks is something you should do with excess money that you can afford to lose . Secure your retirement first . Then stock investments are gravy if they pan out . If they do n't , you 're still all right . But if they do , you can make bigger decisions , e.g. buying a house . Realize that buying individual stocks is about more than just buying an app . You have to both check the fundamentals ( which the app can help you do ) and find other reasons to buy a stock . If you rely on an app , then you 're essentially joining everyone else using that app . You 'll make the same profit as everyone else , which wo n't be much because you all share the profit opportunities with the app 's system . If you want to use someone else 's system , stick with mutual funds . The app system is actually more dangerous in the long term . Early in the app 's life cycle , its system can produce positive returns because a small number of people are sharing the benefits of that system . As more people adopt it though , the total possible returns stay the same . At some point , users saturate the app . All the possible returns are realized . Then users are competing with each other for returns . The per user returns will shrink as usage grows . If you have your own system , then you are competing with fewer people for the returns from it . Share the fundamental analysis , but pick your stocks based on other criteria . Fundamental analysis will tell you if a stock is overvalued . The other criteria will tell you which
<URL> might answer your question if US based . In the US , what counts is what shows on the bill . I 've run $ 20K through a card with a $ 10K limit , but still ended the month under $ 2K by making extra payments . As long as you stay ahead of the limit by making mid-cycle payments , I see no issue with this strategy . If you keep running $ 30K/mo through a card with a $ 10K limit , the bank will eventually catch this and raise your limit as you will have proven you are more credit worthy .
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
Here are some other things to consider : You must pay the 401K loan back over a maximum of 5 years . Student loans are usually longer than this , so make sure your cash-flow can actually support the new payment timeline . The repayment of a 401K loan gets deducted directly from your paycheck , which may decrease the take-home pay you 're expecting . Not a deal-breaker , just something to be aware of . Many 401K plans wo n't let you make any further 401K contributions until you 've repaid the loan . You 'll miss out on some valuable tax-free investing because of that , which may include your employers match . There is a large opportunity cost to borrowing this money . Your long-term returns in your 401K may be lowered because you 'll be breaking the dollar cost average of your contributions . You still have to pay interest back to your 401K account on the money borrowed . This is usually prime + one or two percent . With prime currently at 3.25 % , do the math and make sure it makes sense in terms of the interest rates .
The OP invests a large amount of money each year ( 30-40k ) , and has significant amount already invested . Some in the United States that face this situation may want to look at using the bonus to fund two years worth of IRA or Roth IRA . During the period between January 1st and tax day they can put money into a IRA or Roth IRA for the previous year , and for the current year . The two deposits might have to be made separately , because the tax year for each deposit must be specified . If the individual is married , they can also fund their spouses IRA or Roth IRA . If this bonus is this large every year , the double deposit can only be done the first time , but if the windfall was unexpected getting the previous years deposit done before tax day could be useful . The deposits for the current year could still be spread out over the next 12 months . EDIT : Having thought about the issue a little more I have realized there are other timing issues that need to be considered . If the decision is made to spread the deposits over a long period of time , there are still investment minimums that need to be considered . Assume $ 65K to be invested this year , that would be ~ $ 5400 a month , If the decision is to fund several investments ( Large Company , emerging markets , bonds ) and if these are new funds , the deposits may have to be lumpier than desired to make sure that the minimums are reached . Keep in mind that the OP currently invests daily and weekly . In a similar concern , some funds/investment companies change fees and classes of funds based on the amount invested in their funds , getting to those minimums quickly has advantages . Another type of investment also has deadlines : putting money into a 529 . Unfortunately to credit the investment for a year it must be done by December 31st . The amount of money that can be invested in one year , the maximum tax credit/deduction , and lifetime maximums depend on the state .
Well , one of the requirements for you to be able to claim someone as a dependent is that he/she must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien . So the key issue here is whether your parents are resident aliens . Someone is a resident alien if they pass either the substantial presence test , or the green card test . Your parents do n't have green cards , so it 's the substantial presence test that is relevant . This is where how long they 've stayed in the U.S. is important . They satisfy the substantial presence test for 2013 if : ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2013 ) + 1/3 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2012 ) + 1/6 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2011 ) > = 183 days . Do they satisfy that ? If they do , then they are resident aliens for 2013 . If they are resident aliens , then they can be claimed as dependents . Note-1 : if they are resident aliens , all their worldwide income would be subject to U.S. taxes . Note-2 : As per this <URL> , to pass substantial presence test , you have to be in USA atleast 30 days for the current year in addition 183 days calculation which includes current year and last two years / .
This is the way it 's supposed to work : taxable pay is the entire amount that might be subject to tax . Your personal allowance will be taken off as part of calculating the amount of tax due on that . The two might diverge if you divert some of your gross pay to non-taxable benefits such as pension contributions or childcare vouchers , or conversely if you have taxable non-cash benefits like medical insurance . That 's why they are typically listed separately .
You did n't mention how much is the interest rate of your debts . It is a very simple rule . % profit > % loss If you think you can make more money by investing ( the best way you can ) in spite of having debts then go ahead and invest . % profit less than % loss Else , if you donno what you 're doing and ca n't make sure you earn more than what you 're paying off for interest then may be you should focus on clearing up the debts first . You can read more about similar topic discussion <URL> Now , that you 've presented the interest rate of your loans i.e. 11 % which is your average , then I suggest you to clear up the high interest rate loans first i.e. which are above 11 % because it is very difficult to make an investment and get returns more than 11 % of what you invest . What ever be it , now that you wo n't be having big events in the coming 5 years , I suggest you to clear up all your loans and stay debt free i.e. tr to become stable and tension free . You know , because you ca n't run away anywhere with all those loans up on your shoulders , you HAVE to clear them today or tomorrow . So , now that you 're free ( in the next 5 yrs ) and burden less , so why not clear them up today ?
Found this : <URL> also <URL> Experian 800‑493‑1058 TBD Equifax 866‑640‑2273 Press 3 0 . TransUnion 800‑916‑8800 Press 2 at each prompt . Hope this helps !
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
<URL> : Medical expenses are the costs of diagnosis , cure , mitigation , treatment , or prevention of disease , and the costs for treatments affecting any part or function of the body . Loan interest and fees do not meet this definition . Your loan interest and fees are a cost of the payment method you chose ( a loan ) , not a cost of medical treatment . The IRS makes clear where loan interest is deductible . <URL> discusses home mortgage interest deductions , and <URL> specifically discusses student loan interest deductions . Considering <URL> 's definition of a medical expense , combined with the absence of a publication discussing medical expense loan interest deductions , one must conclude that medical loan interest and fees are not deductible .
These cards with added benefits often come with an annual fee , so you 're right that it 's worth understanding specific features ( and requirements ) for your own card 's services , and taking advantage of them when appropriate . As far as the " Roadside Dispatch " service goes , one of my own credit cards offers a similar benefit . Using a label maker , I printed a label reading : " Roadside assistance : 1-800-xxx-xxxx " , with the roadside assistance service 's phone number on it . I stuck that to the back of the credit card , because : First , frequently seeing that label on the back of my card reminds me I have access to the service . I 'm also reminded that both the card &amp; cardholder ( me ) need to be present to take advantage of the service , no matter which car is in trouble . Once , I called to get my mom-in-law 's car a free tow , when I happened to be around and her car was having trouble . ( Familiarize yourself with how your service would operate . ) Second , the phone number is there when I need it . That is , I would n't have to make two calls , one to cardmember services to first find out the roadside assistance number , and then to the service . This may sound trivial , but trust me , you do n't want to be waiting on hold for cardmember services when you 're at the side of the road with a mobile phone you forgot to fully charge the night before !
Here 's the <URL> for individuals ( scroll down to table 3 , Period of Limitations ) Personally , I keep everything for 7 years just to be safe . Seems like most people should be able to get away with just 3 years though .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
You need a budget . You need to know how much you make and how much you spend . How much you earn and what you choose to spend you money on is your choice . You have your own tolerance for risk and your own taste and style , so lifestyle and what you own is n't something that we can answer . The key to your budget is to really understand where you money goes . Maybe you are the sort of person who needs to know down to the penny , maybe you are a person who rounds off . Either way you should have some idea . <URL> and <URL> Once you know what you budget is , here are some pretty standard steps to get started . Each point is a full question in of itself , but these are to give you a place to start thinking and learning . Use your budget to spend less than you make . Use your budget to save for expensive things you want ( car , house , vacation , electronics ) Carry no consumer debt ( like credit cards ) Save up an emergency fund Save for your retirement Invest a little , spend a little just for fun . You might have other priorities like a charity or other organizations that go into your priority like . Regardless of your career path and salary , you will need a budget to understand where you money is , where it goes , and how you can reach your goals and which goals are reasonable to have .
I 'd suggest starting with some general categories like @MrChrister suggests . Each month , as you compare actuals to budget , you 'll probably find some categories where you really feel like you need more details , or you need to exercise a little more discipline . Break those categories down further so that you can get the details you need . For example , if you find that you 're spending more money than you think you should on the Food category , you might break it down into Groceries , Restaurant Meals , Fast Food , and Work Lunches .
end question
start question
How much time does a doctor 's office have to collect balance from me ?
They have forever to collect a balance from you . Furthermore they can add whatever penalties and fees they wish to increase that balance . Worst of all , they do n't have to remind you or send you bills or any other notification . You owed it when you left the office . ( There very well could be local laws that require notifications , but that is n't really the issue here . ) That dentist has every right to deny you service until you settle the account . Forever . The question you want to know is how long can they sue you for the debt . The statute of limitations on collecting that debt via court : <URL> Which covers the rules on HOW LONG they have to collect the debt . Owing the money is one thing , but the rules and tools that you creditor has to collect the debt are another . You are probably worried about them suing you . But if you do n't pay the debt ( or settle in some way ) , that dentist can refuse to provide services to you , even if they write off the debt . Ways you can be punished by your dentist for not paying the bill are : Credit Reporting : Depending on your jurisdiction and/or type of debt , they typically only report it on your credit ( if they are reporting at all ) for 7 years . Even if you pay and settle the account , it will still be reported on your credit report for 7 years . The difference is how it is reported . They can report that " user133466 is a super reliable person who always pays debts on time " . They can say " user133466 is a flake who pays , but takes a while to pay " . Or they can say " user133466 is a bad person to provide services before collecting money , because user133466 do n't pay bills " . Other people considering lending you money are going to read these opinions and decide accordingly if they want to deal with you or not . And they can say that for 7 years . The idea of credit reporting is that you settle up as soon as possible and get your credit report to reflect the truth . Getting a Judgement Against You to Collect : One popular way to collect a debt to is to sue you for it . There , each state has a different time period on how long a creditor has to sue you for a debt . <URL> If you pay part of the debt , that will often reset the clock on the statute of limitations , so be sure any partial or negotiated settlements state very clearly , in writing , that payment is considered payment in full on the debt . Then you keep that record forever . They Can Hassle You For The Money : There are other interesting points in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . See <URL> . They can only contact you in certain ways , they must respond to you in certain ways , and they have limits on what they can say , who they can say it to , and when they can say it . There are protections from mean or vicious bill collectors , but that does n't sound like who you are dealing with . I do n't know that the FDCPA is a tool you need to use in this case . Bottom line - You Should Pay : You should negotiate your debt and try your best to settle up . From your post , both parties dropped the ball , and both parties should give a little . You should pay no or minor late fees , and the doctor should report your credit positively when you do so . If you both made honest mistakes , they both parties should acknowledge that and be fair , and not defensive . This is not legal advice . But you owe the debt , so you should settle up . I do n't think it is fair for you to not pay because they did n't mail you a paper . However I also do not think it is fair for the doctor to run up fees and not remind you of the bill . Finally , you did n't bring up insurance or many other details . Those details can change the answer .
This is a very good question ! The biggest difference is that when you put money in a savings bank you are a lender that is protected by the government , and when you buy stocks you become an owner . As a lender , whether the bank makes or loses money on the loans it makes , they still maintain your balance and pay you interest , and your principal balance is guaranteed by the government ( in the USA ) . The bank is the party that is primarily at risk if their business does not perform well . As an owner , you participate fully in the company 's gains and losses , but you also put your money at risk , since if the company loses money , you do too . Because of this , many people prefer to buy funds made up of many stocks , so they are not at risk of one company performing very poorly or going bankrupt . When you buy stock you become a part owner and share in the profitability of the company , often through a dividend . You should also be aware that stocks often have years where they do very poorly as well as years when they do very well . However , over a long period of time ( 10 years or more ) , they have historically done better in outpacing inflation than any other type of investment . For this reason , I would recommend that you only invest in the stock market if you expect to be able to leave the money there for 10 years or more , ideally , and for 5 years at the very least . Otherwise , you may need to take the money out at a bad time . I would also recommend that you only invest in stocks if you already have an emergency fund , and do n't have consumer debt . There is n't much point in putting your money at risk to get a return if you can get a risk-free return by paying off debt , or if you would have to pull your money back out if your car broke down or you lost your job .
<URL> would be the general idea of maintaining a specific mix when investing , as something you do n't mention is how much cash do you have to invest as if what you invest in keeps dropping as Joe Taxpayer points out then you 'd be buying and buying and possibly never selling and thus do n't profit . For example , if you bought Detroit bonds a few years ago and then bought more as they went down then the city declared bankruptcy that could mean quite the loss for some people .
I just opened my Quicken 2009 to see exactly what you 're talking about . This may be slightly different from 2008 , but in 2009 there are three numbers at the bottom of the register : Online Balance , Current Balance and Ending Balance . Online Balance is the number downloaded from my bank . That 's what 's in my checking account right now , but I know that I 've written the rent check and it has n't yet been taken out of my account . Current Balance goes by the transactions I 've entered , in addition to the information downloaded from my bank . So , that number has taken into consideration that I 've got a few checks hanging out there . ( Of course , that only works if you tell Quicken that you 've written those checks . ) Ending Balance takes into consideration info downloaded from my bank , checks and transactions I 've told Quicken about that have taken place already , and upcoming transactions , like my student loan payment that will be automatically deducted from my account tomorrow . You can tell Quicken how far in advance you want these factored in for each bill . For paychecks , I have it set to automatically enter into my register 2 days in advance . For automatic payments , I set it to enter in my register a week in advance . Now , unless you have more than $ 2000 in checks hanging out there , it 's unlikely that your Ending Balance is correct . But if you have any checks that have n't been processed yet , or you know about upcoming transactions , you really ca n't run out and spend the $ 3K that your Online Balance claims you have . ( Not that you were planning to do that anyway . ) Bottom line , you need to reconcile your account . Duplicate entries could explain the discrepancy , and should be deleted . In the future , if you 're downloading transactions from two places , make sure you match them to avoid duplicates . Sorry this was wordy , but hopefully it helps ! Good luck !
USDA <URL> on a monthly basis that can be used to estimate food costs for a household and provides four " tiers " : thrifty , low-cost , moderate-cost , and liberal . It likely varies by region , as well as by personality . In our family , where both my wife and I are frugal , we usually come in below the " thrifty " level . On the other hand , incomes in this area are literally only 65 % of other places in the country .
If you are looking at domestic transfers , all Banks hold accounts with the Central Bank [ Reserve Bank ] , in US the Central Bank is called Federal Reserve . The money from account of Bank of America held with Fed is debited and the account of Citi held with Fed is credited .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
Not ATM , because for that your friend would need your ATM card , but yes in person in the branch . If you can have someone who knows your account number come in to a Chase branch with the check - they 'll be able to deposit it for you . edit A reminder - the check must be endorsed by you or be " for deposit only " .
The OP invests a large amount of money each year ( 30-40k ) , and has significant amount already invested . Some in the United States that face this situation may want to look at using the bonus to fund two years worth of IRA or Roth IRA . During the period between January 1st and tax day they can put money into a IRA or Roth IRA for the previous year , and for the current year . The two deposits might have to be made separately , because the tax year for each deposit must be specified . If the individual is married , they can also fund their spouses IRA or Roth IRA . If this bonus is this large every year , the double deposit can only be done the first time , but if the windfall was unexpected getting the previous years deposit done before tax day could be useful . The deposits for the current year could still be spread out over the next 12 months . EDIT : Having thought about the issue a little more I have realized there are other timing issues that need to be considered . If the decision is made to spread the deposits over a long period of time , there are still investment minimums that need to be considered . Assume $ 65K to be invested this year , that would be ~ $ 5400 a month , If the decision is to fund several investments ( Large Company , emerging markets , bonds ) and if these are new funds , the deposits may have to be lumpier than desired to make sure that the minimums are reached . Keep in mind that the OP currently invests daily and weekly . In a similar concern , some funds/investment companies change fees and classes of funds based on the amount invested in their funds , getting to those minimums quickly has advantages . Another type of investment also has deadlines : putting money into a 529 . Unfortunately to credit the investment for a year it must be done by December 31st . The amount of money that can be invested in one year , the maximum tax credit/deduction , and lifetime maximums depend on the state .
All the gory details are available <URL> . More specifically your personal limit will be listed on you last tax assessment notice , that you would have received last April-ish when you filed last year 's taxes . As a first approximation , your situation may differ , if you have never contributed anything , your limit is likely $ 15,000 ( as the program has been running three years as of 2011 ) .
In India , in the money options get exercised automatically at the end of the day and is settled at T +1 ( Where T is expiry day ) . This means , the clearing house takes the closing price of the underlying security while calculating the amount that needs to be credited/debited to its members . Source : - <URL>
So , this is n't always the case , but in the example provided the option is most likely in the money or near the money since the delta is nearly 1 - indicating that a $ 1 move in the underlying results in a $ 0.92 move in the option - this will happen when the expiration is very far out or the option is in the money . As expiration gets closer , movements in the underlying become more pronounced in the options because the probability of the stock price moving from its current position is lower . As the probability of the stock price moving goes down , the delta of in the money options approaches 100 , eventually reaching 100 at expiration . Another way to word this is that the premium on in the money options shrinks as expiration approaches and the intrinsic value of the option increases as percentage of total value so that movements in the underlying stock price become a greater influence on the option price - hence a greater delta . Again , if the option is out of the money , this is not the case .
Contact the IRS to see if your return has been filed . If you can , try to obtain information on your CPA prior to calling , like the PTIN , CAF ( if any ) , CPA number , etc. . It may be in other documents you 've gotten from the CPA - particularly previously filed IRS documents . The IRS has a process and <URL> for complaints against CPAs and preparers . I would be careful not to do much against the CPA until your taxes are filed , either by this CPA or by another CPA ( or preparer or by yourself ) . If you 're resolved to go somewhere else now , then pull that trigger and do n't pay the CPA 's bills until the full amount due is negotiated ( presumably down to zero due ) . You can ask for forgiveness from late penalties if you can show " <URL> " for the lateness . You can also freeze any interest from accruing by estimating and paying your taxes now through <URL> . If the CPA has not told you an amount due , then there 's good reason to believe the return was not filed . However , if you had some arrangement or prior discussion of the amount due , then it may be possible that he submitted your taxes and attached a bank account payment number ( did you provide him one ? ) . You really need to get in contact with the CPA to understand what 's been done , if anything . Try contacting other people in the enterprise , if there are any . If you know other clients of the CPA , contact them . If you were referred by friends or family , use them . If you know where the office is , try going down there ( be direct but never aggressive ) . Remember to file a complaint with the IRS for " preparer misconduct " on Form 14157 . You can file compaints with the state board of accountancy or other responsible licensing agency ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . I believe <URL> is the appropriate form to request abatement of the late penalties ( with brief explanatory attachment ) , but you can review the <URL> and let your next CPA consider it .
When you buy a futures contract you are entering into an agreement to buy gold , in the future ( usually a 3 month settlement date ) . this is not an OPTION , but a contract , so each party is taking risk , the seller that the price will rise , the buyer that the price will fall . Unlike an option which you can simply choose not to exercise if the price goes down , with futures you are obligated to follow through . ( or sell the contract to someone else , or buy it back ) The price you pay depends on the margin , which is related to how far away the settlement date is , but you can expect around 5 % , so the minimum you could get into is 100 troy ounces , at todays price , times 5 % . Since we 're talking about 100 troy ounces , that means the margin required to buy the smallest sized future contract would be about the same as buying 5 ounces of gold . roughly $ 9K at current prices . If you are working through a broker they will generally require you to sell or buy back the contract before the settlement date as they do n't want to deal with actually following through on the purchase and having to take delivery of the gold . How much do you make or lose ? Lets deal with a smaller change in the price , to be a bit more realistic since we are talking typically about a settlement date that is 3 months out . And to make the math easy lets bump the price of gold to $ 2000/ounce . That means the price of a futures contract is going to be $ 10K Lets say the price goes up 10 % , Well you have basically a 20:1 leverage since you only paid 5 % , so you stand to gain $ 20,000 . Sounds great right ? WRONG . . because as good as the upside is , the downside is just as bad . If the price went down 10 % you would be down $ 20000 , which means you would not only have to cough up the 10K you committed but you would be expected to ' top up the margin ' and throw in ANOTHER $ 10,000 as well . And if you ca n't pay that up your broker might close out your position for you . oh and if the price has n't changed , you are mostly just out the fees and commissions you paid to buy and sell the contract . With futures contracts you can lose MORE than your original investment . NOT for the faint of heart or the casual investor . NOT for folks without large reserves who can afford to take big losses if things go against them . I 'll close this answer with a quote from the site I 'm linking below The large majority of people who trade futures lose their money . That 's a fact . They lose even when they are right in the medium term , because futures are fatal to your wealth on an unpredicted and temporary price blip . Now consider that , especially the bit about ' price blip ' and then look at the current volatility of most markets right now , and I think you can see how futures trading can be as they say ' Fatal to your Wealth ' ( man , I love that phrase , what a great way of putting it ) This <URL> has a pretty decent primer on the whole thing . their view is perhaps a bit biased due to the nature of their business , but on the whole their description of how things work is pretty decent . <URL> has a more detailed ( and perhaps more objective ) tutorial on the futures thing . Well worth your time if you think you want to do anything related to the futures market .
If the cash flow information is complete , the valuation can be determined with relative accuracy and precision . Assuming the monthly rent is correct , the annual revenue is $ 1,600 per year , $ 250/mo * 12 months - $ 1,400 / year in taxes . Real estate is best valued as a perpetuity where is the price , is the income , and is the rate of interest . Theoreticians would suggest that the best available rate of interest would be the risk free rate , a 30 year Treasury rate ~ 3.5 % , but the competition ca n't get these rates , so it is probably unrealistic . Anways , aassuming no expenses , the value of the property is $ 1,600 / 0.035 at most , $ 45,714.29 . This is the general formula , and it should definitely be adjusted for expenses and a more realistic interest rate . Now , with a better understanding of interest rates and expenses , this will predict the most likely market value ; however , it should be known that whatever interest rate is applied to the formula will be the most likely rate of return received from the investment . A Graham-Buffett value investor would suggest using a valuation no less than 15 % since to a value investor , there 's no point in bidding unless if the profits can be above average , ~ 7.5 % . With a 15 % interest rate and no expenses , $ 1,600 / .15 , is $ 10,666.67 . On average , it is unlikely that a bid this low will be successful ; nevertheless , if multiple bids are placed using this similar methodology , by the law of small numbers , it is likely to hit the lottery on at most one bid .
They have forever to collect a balance from you . Furthermore they can add whatever penalties and fees they wish to increase that balance . Worst of all , they do n't have to remind you or send you bills or any other notification . You owed it when you left the office . ( There very well could be local laws that require notifications , but that is n't really the issue here . ) That dentist has every right to deny you service until you settle the account . Forever . The question you want to know is how long can they sue you for the debt . The statute of limitations on collecting that debt via court : <URL> Which covers the rules on HOW LONG they have to collect the debt . Owing the money is one thing , but the rules and tools that you creditor has to collect the debt are another . You are probably worried about them suing you . But if you do n't pay the debt ( or settle in some way ) , that dentist can refuse to provide services to you , even if they write off the debt . Ways you can be punished by your dentist for not paying the bill are : Credit Reporting : Depending on your jurisdiction and/or type of debt , they typically only report it on your credit ( if they are reporting at all ) for 7 years . Even if you pay and settle the account , it will still be reported on your credit report for 7 years . The difference is how it is reported . They can report that " user133466 is a super reliable person who always pays debts on time " . They can say " user133466 is a flake who pays , but takes a while to pay " . Or they can say " user133466 is a bad person to provide services before collecting money , because user133466 do n't pay bills " . Other people considering lending you money are going to read these opinions and decide accordingly if they want to deal with you or not . And they can say that for 7 years . The idea of credit reporting is that you settle up as soon as possible and get your credit report to reflect the truth . Getting a Judgement Against You to Collect : One popular way to collect a debt to is to sue you for it . There , each state has a different time period on how long a creditor has to sue you for a debt . <URL> If you pay part of the debt , that will often reset the clock on the statute of limitations , so be sure any partial or negotiated settlements state very clearly , in writing , that payment is considered payment in full on the debt . Then you keep that record forever . They Can Hassle You For The Money : There are other interesting points in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . See <URL> . They can only contact you in certain ways , they must respond to you in certain ways , and they have limits on what they can say , who they can say it to , and when they can say it . There are protections from mean or vicious bill collectors , but that does n't sound like who you are dealing with . I do n't know that the FDCPA is a tool you need to use in this case . Bottom line - You Should Pay : You should negotiate your debt and try your best to settle up . From your post , both parties dropped the ball , and both parties should give a little . You should pay no or minor late fees , and the doctor should report your credit positively when you do so . If you both made honest mistakes , they both parties should acknowledge that and be fair , and not defensive . This is not legal advice . But you owe the debt , so you should settle up . I do n't think it is fair for you to not pay because they did n't mail you a paper . However I also do not think it is fair for the doctor to run up fees and not remind you of the bill . Finally , you did n't bring up insurance or many other details . Those details can change the answer .
From the IRS page <URL> : Your tax year investment income must be $ 3,400 or less for the year . ( Emphasis mine . ) It is not the size of your investment that affects the EITC ; it is the amount of investment income that can disqualify you . Also , " investment income " in this case means taxable investment income . Inside your retirement account , any earnings your investments make would not disqualify you for the EITC .
From Wikipedia - To calculate the value of the S&amp;P 500 Index , the sum of the adjusted market capitalization of all 500 stocks is divided by a factor , usually referred to as the Divisor . For example , if the total adjusted market cap of the 500 component stocks is US$ 13 trillion and the Divisor is set at 8.933 billion , then the S&amp;P 500 Index value would be 1,455.28 . From a strictly mathematical perspective , the divisor is not canceling out the units , and the S&amp;P index is dollar denominated even though it 's never quoted that way . A case in point is that the S&amp;P is often said to have a P/E , and especially an E , the earnings attributed to one ' unit ' of S&amp;P . And if you buy a mutual fund sporting a low expense ratio , you can invest exactly that much money ( the current S&amp;P index value ) and see the dividends accrue to your account , less the fee .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
If you read a bit on this site you will see warnings about closing accounts . Yes , what you propose to do can work , as long as your timing is right , and you watch your score . You get a minor ding for pulls to your report ( credit inquiries ) , for high utilization , and for low average account age . For your goals , you should only get cards that have no annual fee , and let them accumulate . At some point , you will have enough available credit that any balance wont cause high utilization , and canceling a card wont kill your average age .
end question
start question
Geared ETFs - Do they offer more than 3x leverage ?
After the 2009 collapse , there were calls to regulate levered ETFs and <URL> . The reason why is because especially with the 3x Financials , where the underlying lost nearly 50 % in two months , the 3x lost approximately 90 % , a well-managed decline considering that is a nearly 90 % loss , so it fulfilled its objective to get 3x the geometric return of the underlying . They are not intended to amplify arithmetic returns , so a 50 % loss will not wipe the levered fund out , only incompetence . After those calls for regulation , Direxion called it quits on expanding its offerings which were to include a 10x set of ETFs . The real risk of a levered ETF is that it may not achieve its goal of geometrically amplifying an underlying 's return , thus if one is using a -3 x to hedge underlying , a generally effective strategy at reducing volatility , then a long run hedge will break down because a single day 's return is ignored the next day since these are daily levered funds . There were plans to offer monthly return so that errors could be corrected , but they were also stopped in their tracks by the calls for regulation . Here , there is no doubt that just the mere threats of regulation have hurt the little guy 's , such as myself , ability to hedge .
The US Customs and Border Protection website states that there is no limit to the amount of currency that can be brought into or taken out of the US . There is no limit on the amount of money that can be taken out of or brought into the United States . However , if a person or persons traveling together and filing a joint declaration ( CBP Form 6059-B ) have $ 10,000 or more in currency or negotiable monetary instruments , they must fill out a " Report of International Transportation of Currency and Monetary Instruments " FinCEN 105 ( former CF 4790 ) . The CBP site also notes that failure to declare currency and monetary instruments in excess of $ 10,000 may result in its seizure . Further , the site states that the requirement to report currency on a FinCEN 105 does not apply to imports of gold bullion . However , the legal website <URL> includes details of how money laundering laws may come into play here : As part of the War on Terror and the War on Drugs , U.S. law enforcement agencies have significantly increased their vigilance over money laundering . To this effect , travelers who carry large amounts of cash without supporting documentation of its legitimate source may be subject to secondary inspections and seizure of funds . In some cases , law enforcement may confiscate cash in excess of $ 10,000 until supporting documents are produced . So far , I have described the " official " position . However , reading between the lines , I think it is fair to say that in the current climate if you show up at an entry point with a suitcase full of a large amount of cash you would face considerable scrutiny , regardless of any supporting documentation you may present . If you fail to present supporting documentation , then I think your cash would certainly be seized . If you are a US resident , then you would be given the opportunity to obtain satisfactory documentation . If you did present documentation , then I think your cash would be held for as long as it would take to verify the validity of the documentation . Failure to present valid documentation would result in money laundering charges being brought against you and the matter would rest before the courts . If you are not a US resident , then failing to produce supporting documentation would mean your cash being seized and entry into the US would almost certainly be denied . You would then have to deal with the situation from outside of the US . If you did produce supporting documentation , then again I suspect the cash would be held for as long as it takes to verify the validity of the documentation . Whether or not you were allowed to enter the US would depend on what other documentation you possess .
Simplest way to answer this is that on margin , one is using borrowed assets and thus there are strings that come with doing that . Thus , if the amount of equity left gets too low , the broker has a legal obligation to close the position which can be selling purchased shares or buying back borrowed shares depending on if this is a long or short position respectively . <URL> has an example that they walk through as the call is where you are asked to either put in more money to the account or the position may be closed because the broker wants their money back . What is Maintenance Margin ? A maintenance margin is the required amount of securities an investor must hold in his account if he either purchases shares on margin , or if he sells shares short . If an investor 's margin balance falls below the set maintenance margin , the investor would then need to contribute additional funds to the account or liquidate stocks in the account to bring the account back to the initial margin requirement . This request is known as a margin call . As discussed previously , the Federal Reserve Board sets the initial margin requirement ( currently at 50 % ) . The Federal Reserve Board also sets the maintenance margin . The maintenance margin , the amount of equity an investor needs to hold in his account if he buys stock on margin or sells shares short , is 25 % . Keep in mind , however , that this 25 % level is the minimum level set , brokerage firms can increase , but not decrease this level as they desire . Example : Determining when a margin call would occur . Assume that an investor had purchased 500 shares of Newco 's stock . The shares were trading at $ 50 when the transaction was executed . The initial margin requirement on the account was 70 % and the maintenance margin is 30 % . Assume no transaction costs . Determine the price at which the investor will receive a margin call . Answer : Calculate the price as follows : $ 50 ( 1 - 0.70 ) = $ 21.43 1 - 0.30 A margin call would be received when the price of Newco 's stock fell below $ 21.43 per share . At that time , the investor would either need to deposit additional funds or liquidate shares to satisfy the initial margin requirement . Most people do n't want " Margin Calls " but stocks may move in unexpected ways and this is where there are mechanisms to limit losses , especially for the brokerage firm that wants to make as much money as possible . Cancel what trade ? No , the broker will close the position if the requirement is n't kept . Basically think of this as a way for the broker to get their money back if necessary while following federal rules . This would be selling in a long position or buying in a short sale situation . <URL> walks through an example where an e-mail would be sent and if the requirement is n't met then the position gets exited as per the law .
Two " data sources " I 've used : Former coworkers I 've kept in touch with , especially if they 're now working as hiring managers for the type of job I 'm seeking . A quick call to them , and they 'll usually provide the range you can expect to see . Recruiters . There are several recruiters that I 've been in occasional contact with for several years . None of them have ever placed me , but I 've forwarded their open positions to some friends . When I 've asked they 've been willing to give me typical ranges for annual salary and hourly contract rates . Obviously , you need to keep your network active in order to be able to tap either of these sources for data .
It is n't the first initiative ( see link below ) and maybe this one will stick around . Time will be a good test . Here is an article on it ... <URL> They plan to make money off unused balances - so they hope to get the masses signed up using the 0 $ fees . Also , no type of advanced trading , just limit and market orders . Think of it this way - even if someone puts in 100 $ and buys a stock at 88 $ ... that 12 $ sits there . Multiply that by say ... 200,000 accounts and then do a basic 3 % return on that . Also , they plan for margin accounts in the future . Time will tell ... sort of like I use Acorn right now ( but it charges a fee to invest - a slightly higher than normal one ) . I signed up for fun and am just letting it ride .
If you are looking for a European financials ETF to short , you could take a look at the iShares EURO STOXX Banks , which is traded on a a few German stock exchanges ( Frankfurt etc. ) : <URL> You find its current holdings here : <URL> .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
It depends on the contract terms of your specific GIC or term deposit . Some GICs and deposits are fixed rate , which offer a guaranteed interest rate , and some are floating rate or interest-linked , where the interest rate varies according to some benchmark that periodically changes , such as the bank 's prime rate . Each of fixed or floating could be better than the other under circumstances which become evident in hindsight . If you buy a fixed rate GIC , you are taking a risk locking up your money at that rate . If rates were to rise to higher than your fixed rate , you would n't be able to take advantage of the higher rate until your term is up , unless your GIC is redeemable . If you buy a floating rate GIC , you are taking the risk that your money might have been better invested at a higher fixed rate , should floating rates remain lower over the investment 's term , unless your GIC is redeemable . So , you should also understand whether your GIC is locked in for the entire term , or whether it may be redeemable , and under what conditions , and whether any penalties may apply if you do redeem early . Typically , non-redeemable GICs offer higher interest rates than redeemable GICs .
Short answer : yes . Long answer : you have to check with Desjardins if you can buy other funds using their broker , but if not you can just open another RRSP account with a better broker who gives you this option . You can open an many RRSPs as you wish . If you are really unhappy with Desjardins , you can then transfer your money from there to your new broker without being exposed to tax . <URL>
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
What is Amortization ? An amortization schedule is often used to produce identical payments for the term ( repayment period ) of a loan , resulting in the principal being paid off and the debt retired at the end of the loan . This is in contrast to an interest only , or balloon loan . These loans require little or no payment against the balance of the loan , requiring the loan to be paid indefinitely if there is no term , or requiring the loan to be entirely paid off from cash or a new loan at the end of the term . A basic amortization formula can be derived from the compound interest formula : <URL> . The basics of the formula are the periodic payment amount , A ( your monthly payment ) , can be determined by the principal loan , P , the rate , r , and the number of payments , n. Why Amortize ? Lenders lend money to make a profit on the interest . They 'd like to get back all the money they lent out . Amortization schedules are popular because the fixed low payments make it easier for borrowers to pay the loan off eventually . They also tend to be very profitable for lenders , especially at the start of the term , because they make a lot of profit on interest , just like the start of your mortgage . The principal of a mortgage has more meaning than the principal of a revolving debt credit card . The mortgage principal is fixed at the start , and represents the value of the collateral property that is your home . You could consider the amount of principal paid to be the percentage of your home that you actually own ( as part of your net worth calculation ) . Credit Card Amortization A credit card has a new balance each month depending on how much you charge and how much you pay off . Principal has less meaning in this case , because there is no collateral to compare against , and the balance will change monthly . In this case , the meaning of the amortization schedule on your credit card is how long it will take you to pay off the balance if you stop charging and pay at the proscribed payment level over the term described . Given the high interest rate on credit cards , you may end up paying twice as much for goods in the long run if you follow your lenders schedule . Who Amortizes ? Amortizing loans are common for consumer loans , unless a borrower is seeking out the lowest possible monthly payment . Lenders recognize that people will eventually die , and want to be paid off before that happens . Balloon and interest only bonds and loans are more commonly issued by businesses and governments who are ( hopefully ) investing in capital improvements that will pay off in the long run . Thousands of people and businesses have gone bankrupt in this financial crisis because their interest only loans reached term , and no one was willing to lend them money anymore to replace their existing loan .
Index Funds &amp; ETFs , if they are tracking the same index , will be the same in an ideal world . The difference would be because of the following factors : Expense ratio : i.e. the expense the funds charge . This varies and hence it would lead to a difference in performance . Tracking error : this means that there is a small percentage of error between the actual index composition and the fund composition . This is due to various reasons . Effectively this would result in the difference between values . Demand / Supply : with ETFs , the fund is traded on stock exchanges like a stock . If the general feeling is that the index is rising , it could lead to an increase in the price of the ETF . Index funds on the other hand would remain the same for the day and are less liquid . This results in a price increase / decrease depending on the market . The above explains the reason for the difference . Regarding which one to buy , one would need to consider other factors like : a ) How easy is it to buy ETFs ? Do you already hold Demat A/C &amp; access to brokers to help you conduct the transaction or do you need to open an additional account at some cost . b ) Normally funds do not need any account , but are you OK with less liquidity as it would take more time to redeem funds .
Without having researched that particular fund , I believe that they bought bonds in the past , say five years ago , interest rates were higher . As the interest rates have dropped , those bonds became more valuable , so their price rose . As a result what you are seeing is not just the direct interest rate that bonds have , but also the boost that bonds get when interest rates fall . Of course , in the future , if interest rates should rise , then you 'll see the opposite effect where bond funds will deliver lower returns .
From the IRS page <URL> : Your tax year investment income must be $ 3,400 or less for the year . ( Emphasis mine . ) It is not the size of your investment that affects the EITC ; it is the amount of investment income that can disqualify you . Also , " investment income " in this case means taxable investment income . Inside your retirement account , any earnings your investments make would not disqualify you for the EITC .
I think that the reason is the same one that is driving the costs of undergraduate degrees . There is no incentive to provide competitive costs because Economic inflation is pushing this up just like everything else . Anyone that wants that degree or doctorate needs to go to an accredited school ( same for undergrad ) . Financial aid and private loans ( even at horrible rates ) are widely available and are not given out with proper credit risk analysis . I will admit that I 'm from the school of thought that financial aid is partially to blame because it subsidizes the true costs and alters the supply and demand that is at work in all markets . I think that if the costs were allowed to reflect the supply and demand without subsidization through heavy financial aid , they would push demand down and stabilize the costs . I also think that eventually the costs would begin to fall to reflect the loss in revenue from people not going to school , and then the system would balance itself . That 's the beauty of a true free market , whether you believe that the actual supply or actual demand is ethically right , it does reflect the true costs .
The more you put down now , the less money you are borrowing . 30yrs of interest adds up . Even paying a small amount at the beginning of the mortgage can turn into a huge savings over the life of the loan . That 's why you 'll find advice to make extra mortgage payments in the beginning . The question is : Do you have a better use for that money ? In particular , do you have any higher-interest debt ( higher APR than your mortgage ) that needs to be paid off ? You generally want to take care of those first . Beyond that can you invest the extra down payment money elsewhere ( eg stock market ) and get a better return than your mortgage rate ? ( do n't forget about taxes on investment profits ) . If so , that money will do more good there .
It is possible for an employer to check your credit score and it is legal . As long as you give them permission . You have every right to refuse BUT the employer also has the right to not give you a job . The reason is to get an overall feeling for your integrity , discipline , and lifestyle . People in debt are more likely to embezzle , etc. . A low credit score can also indicate that you make poor choices in your financial and purchasing deals . If you are refused a job you are qualified under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to get a copy of your credit report . Source - <URL>
It is ordinary income to you . You should probably talk to a California licensed CRTP/EA/CPA , but I doubt they 'll say anything different . You would probably ask them whether you can treat some of it as a refund of rent paid , but I personally would n't feel comfortable with that .
If the IRS changes your return in any way ( including math errors ) - they send a letter explaining the change and the reasons for it . You should read that letter , it will answer your question ( <URL> ) . If you did n't receive it - you can call them and ask to resend it ( they 're unlikely to answer over the phone , but you can try asking ) . I 'm confused by your using the word " estimate " . Your tax return is not supposed to be estimate , it supposed to be precise . Why are you considering your tax return " estimate " ? If your filed tax return shows refund of $ X and you received $ X + $ 180 - then as I said , a letter of explanation from the IRS is due . If you do n't know what the refund amount on your return is and you 're trying to " estimate " it now - you better get a copy of that return .
<URL> . New bank has to entice depositors to part with their cash , so offers a higher rate because with no history they are considered a risky bet . Then reading this article I see it mentions this very important statement The savings rates are also ' expected profit ' as it is a Shariah compliant provider . This means it does n't technically offer interest -- instead , it invests funds ' ethically ' to earn profits which it then ' shares ' with savers . Now it makes me very wary and my firm advice is to read the T&amp;C s so as to be quite clear on what they will give and what they will not .
end question
start question
Should I pay off my credit card online immediately or wait for the bill ?
It does not matter . Your credit score is affected by late payments , by credit usage and by age of credit . DO NOT PAY LATE . Paying early is only good in that it means you do n't pay late . Your credit usage is calculated by percentage of the credit you have that you actually use . Keep your usage to under 20 % of your limit and you look great as a credit risk as you have lots of buffer .
With BofA , you can just enter their address and it will mail them a check instead of needing to wire it to them . You do n't need your landlords permission to do this ( just let him know to expect the check in the mail ) . I did this for years , and other than the fact that the arrival date may vary by a day or two ( presumably due to mail or processing delays ) , had no issues with it . It is a great way to make sure your rent is paid on time ( if you 've got till the 5th , just set it up for the 1st and you should be fine ) . The same is true of most other banks who have online bill payment , with the main difference being the time variability of delivery . I 've not come across any that charge for this . It even saves you the cost of a stamp , envelope , and check . Update : There are also some marginal difference between banks about how records are kept and when the amount is deducted from your account . The records keeping probably works to your advantage if they ever claim you missed a payment ( you have record it was sent , even if they never cash it ) . The variation in deduction from your account ( i.e. when it is sent vs when it is cashed ) could play out different ways and is n't anything that big to worry about .
Not simply by applying for more cards , but rather by being approved for credit cards . In fact , too many declined credit applications can hurt your credit score . I 'm not certain of the details , but some activity is also necessary . Not using your lines of credit can be seen as a detrimental factor . I assume they are trying to guard against being gamed . So , having a bunch of unused lines of credit is not necessarily good . Finally , having too many open lines of credit ( for some definition of " too many " ) can also be a bad thing , though I 'm not sure if this effects your credit score or is simply used as a reason by some issuers to decline your application .
You should pay for grad school without taking loans if your circumstances permit . There is the possibility of a tax write off for interest paid on student loans , but <URL> and it 's very much a " give me $ 10 , and I 'll give you $ 5 back " kind of deal . You 're better off not borrowing the money to begin with , even though I tend to think that borrowing for things which appreciate -- e.g. , a house -- or which can significantly increase your earning capability -- e.g. , the right kind of graduate school -- is generally better/wiser/more permissible than borrowing for something which depreciates , like a car . Having no student loan debt after graduation means you have greater freedom than someone who is laboring to pay student loan debt in addition to all of their other bills . My $ 0.02
The underlying investment is usually somewhat independent of your mortgage , since it encompasses a bundle of mortgages , and not only yours . It works similarly to a fund . When , you pay off the old mortgage while re-financing , the fund receives the outstanding debt in from of cash , which can be used to buy new mortgages .
That 's expensive for the insurance you get , and it could only be good for that particular debt , not the other expenses you incur . You 'll be better off thinking carefully about how much life and/or disability insurance you 'll need for all of your obligations , and covering yourself that way .
First of all , congratulations on paying off $ 40k in debt in one year . Mathematically , you 'd be better off making the standard car loan payments and putting your extra money toward the student loan . However , there are a few other things that you might want to consider . Over the last year , you 've knocked out a whole bunch of different debts . Feels pretty good , does n't it ? At your current rate , you could knock out your new car loan in 6 months . Then you 'd only have one debt left . If it sounds to you like it would be nice to only have one debt left , then it might be worth the mathematical disadvantage you would get by paying off the car early instead of putting the money toward the last student loan . The car loan is 0 % , but if you are late on a single payment , they will take that opportunity to raise your interest rate to something probably higher than the interest rate of your student loan . For this reason , you may decide it is not worth the hassle , and you 'd rather just eliminate the car loan as quickly as possible . Either choice is fine , in my opinion , as long as you have a purpose behind the choice and you are committed to eliminating both debts as quickly as possible . As an aside , it is important to remember that even a 0 % loan is not really free money , and needs to be paid back . You know this , of course , but sometimes you see a 0 % loan advertized and it feels like free money . It 's not . You have probably already paid for the loan by forfeiting a rebate . So although , at this point having already taken this loan and paying for it , you will come out ahead by dragging out your car loan for the full term , in the future do not think that you can make money by buying something at 0 % interest .
This is from the PBS Frontline show " Secret History of the Credit Card . " Getting rid of one card wo n't immediately trash your score , nor will it be by the full impact ( 15 % ) of credit history . If there 's no fee , I 'd buy gas once per quarter with it . If there is a fee , I 'd check my FICO score and if I can afford to lose 20 or so points for a time , I 'd go for it .
It does not matter . Your credit score is affected by late payments , by credit usage and by age of credit . DO NOT PAY LATE . Paying early is only good in that it means you do n't pay late . Your credit usage is calculated by percentage of the credit you have that you actually use . Keep your usage to under 20 % of your limit and you look great as a credit risk as you have lots of buffer .
As a new graduate , aside from the fact that you seem to have the extra $ 193/mo to pay more towards your loan , we do n't know anything else . I wrote a lengthy article on this in response to a friend who had a loan , but was also pondering a home purchase in the future . <URL> discusses the math behind one 's ability to put a downpayment on a house vs having that monthly cash to pay towards the mortgage . In your case , the question is whether , in 5 years , the $ 8500 would be best spent as a home down payment or to pay off the 6.8 % loan . If you specifically had plans toward home ownership , the timing of that plan would affect my answer here , as I discuss in the article . The right answer to your question can only come by knowing far more of your personal situation . Does your employer offer a matched 401 ( k ) ( or other matched retirement account if you are not in the US ) , and are you depositing the full amount to capture that match ? It makes little sense to set aside funds to pay off a 6.8 % loan if you are leaving a 50 or 100 % match on the table . Do you have any other high interest debt ? 18 % card takes priority over this loan . What is the nature of your current savings and rate of savings ? An emergency fund or funds that would take care of unexpected expenses , including bridging the gap during a time of unemployment is an important first step for the new grad . Start by hitting the first $ 1000 , $ 2000 , etc. . But ultimately , you want X months worth of expenses to have a true safety net . Meanwhile , the plan comes at a cost . Your plan will get rid of the loan in about 5 years , but if you simply double up the payments , advising the servicing company to apply the extra to principal , it would drop to just a couple month over over 4 . As you read more about personal finance , you 'll find a lot of different views . Some people are fixated on having zero debt , others will focus on liquidity . In the end , you need to understand each approach and decide what 's right for you .
There are several factors here . Firstly , there 's opportunity cost , i.e. what you would get with the money elsewhere . If you have higher interest opportunities ( investing , paying down debt ) elsewhere , you could be paying that down instead . There 's also domino effects : by reducing your liquid savings to or below the minimum , you ca n't move any of it into tax advantaged retirement accounts earning higher interest . Then there 's the insurance costs . You are required to buy extra insurance to protect your lender . You should factor in the extra insurance you would buy vs the insurance required . Given that you can buy the car yourself , catastrophic insurance may not be necessary , or you may prefer a higher deductible than your lender will allow . If you 're not sufficiently capitalized , you may need gap insurance to cover when your car depreciates faster than your loan is paid down . A 30 percent payment should be enough to not need it though . Finally , there 's some value in having options . If you have the loan and the cash , you can likely pay it off without penalty . But it will be harder to get the loan if you do n't finance it . Maybe you can take out a loan against the car later , but I have n't looked into the fees that might incur . If it 's any help , I 'm in the last stretch of a 3 year car loan . At the time paying in cash was n't an option , and having done it I recognize that it 's more complicated than it seems .
For safety , I would always go with a credit card . The fraud protection is generally better , although that gap is closing and many debit cards include similar fraud protection now as well . The key though is that in the event of a dispute , your money is at stake when you use a debit card ( those funds might be unavailable for you to use ) , while on a credit card , it 's the issuing bank 's funds , and that 's the bigger advantage I think . Also many credit cards offer cash back/points on grocery store purchases so that 's a possible advantage but not really relevant to the fraud/safety concern .
No . Borrowing is not allowed , but if you take a withdrawal , you have 60 days to deposit into another IRA account . This effectively creates a 60 day loan . Not what you 're really looking for . If you take this withdrawal and re-deposit to new account within 60 days , no problem . If not , you owe tax on the untaxed amount as well as a 10 % penalty . This comes from IRS ' Publication 590 , I have the document memorized by substance , not page number .
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
Biggest drawback : if you fail to pay the credit cards immediately you may get zapped with more interest than you could recover in points . There 's also the question of whether the dealer accepts credit cards ; they may not . Find that out first , then if you still want to do this consider prepaying into the credit card account so you ca n't miss that payment .
The most popular method of doing a debt snowball is to to pay your debts in order from smallest to largest , regardless of their interest rate . The idea behind this is that you get a boost from seeing progress , and stick with it . It 's popular for a reason -- it 's very effective . However sometimes people just ca n't stand the thought of paying extra interest . If you 're very highly motivated and able to stick with something long term despite seeing only a small amount of visible progress at a time , you can do the debt snowball from highest interest rate to lowest interest rate . It seems that people tend to stick with the first method more though , and oftentimes the difference in interest rate is not really that great . ( Especially if you hit the debts hard . ) In either case , it works like this : You organize your debts in the desired order . You pay minimum payments on all debts . You pay as much extra as possible each month to the first debt in the list until it is gone . Once the first debt is paid off , you add the amount you had been paying to that debt to the next debt in the list , and throw as much money at that debt as possible . Repeat the process until all debts are repaid . You can organize your debts yourself , or you can use things like What 's the Cost , Pay Off Debt , or Dave Ramsey 's Total Money Makeover to help .
You should n't liquidate a strong investment purely because it 's denominated in the same currency . You do n't want to look at the worsening CAD-USD conversion , but the fees charged by the broker . The worsening rate just means that your USD investments are a slightly bigger proportion of your overall assets . And if you expect the CAD-USD to continue the trend , then selling out USD means you are selling an appreciating investment . You should use the assets that you expect to give you the least return in the future , such as uninvested cash ( if any ) . You 're really looking at two questions : ( 1 ) should we pay off the loan now or make regular payments , and ( 2 ) if paying it off , should we liquidate the US index fund to do it ? The analysis for whether to pay it off is how you expect the costs to rise in the future ( conversion rate , loan interest ) versus the opportunity cost of paying it off ( the ROI you could 've gotten with the money if you did n't pay your loan , plus the flexibility and convenience of having the assets in the interim ) . If you decide to pay off now , then deciding which assets to use should turn more on their expected future performance than the conversion rate . If USD is going to continue rising relative to CAD , then do n't sell USD investments .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
If I were you , I would pay off the car loan today . You already have an excellent credit score . Practically speaking , there is no difference between a 750 score and an 850 score ; you are already eligible for the best loan rates . The fact that you are continuing to use 5 credit cards and that you still have a mortgage tells me that this car loan will have a negligible impact on your score ( and your life ) . By the way , if you had told me that your score was low , I would still tell you to pay off the loan , but for a different reason . In that case , I would tell you to stop worrying about your score , and start getting your financial life in order by eliminating debt . Take care of your finances by reducing the amount of debt in your life , and the score will take care of itself . I realize that the financial industry stresses the importance of a high score , but they are also the ones that sell you the debt necessary to obtain the high score .
end question
start question
Can someone deduct mortgage interest on two properties ?
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
The name on the Form 1098 that the mortgage lender sends you . That 's the SSN and payments reported to the IRS .
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
I believe you can , under professional fees . To be sure , you should ask a professional tax preparer or tax adviser ( CPA/EA ) .
Yes , this is a way to avoid the pattern day trader regulation . The only downside being that your broker will have different commission rates and your capital will be split amongst several places .
Based on <URL> it looks like you can claim these expenses as deductions , but you only get to claim any amount of Unreimbursed Employee Expenses that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( Form 1040-line 38 ) . So unless you are spending a LOT of money on software or have other expenses of this type , it probably wo n't be worth it . Unreimbursed Employee Expenses Generally , the following expenses are deducted on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 21 , or Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 7 . You can deduct only unreimbursed employee expenses that are : Paid or incurred during your tax year , For carrying on your trade or business of being an employee , and Ordinary and necessary . An expense is ordinary if it is common and accepted in your trade , business , or profession . An expense is necessary if it is appropriate and helpful to your business . An expense does not have to be required to be considered necessary . You may be able to deduct the following items as unreimbursed employee expenses . Depreciation on a computer your employer requires you to use in your work . Subscriptions to professional journals and trade magazines related to your work . Tools and supplies used in your work . Work-related education . Note : I truncated this list to items most likely to be relevant to a programmer working for an employer . Follow the link above to see the fulllist .
Am I right to worry about both of these ? Of course . Who carries $ 75K in cash for no good reason ? Your friend got the cash from somewhere , did n't he ? If its legit - there 's paper trail to show . Same for your parents . If you/they can show the legit paper trail - there 's nothing to worry about , the hassle , at worse , is a couple of letters to the IRS . If the money is not legit ( your friend is selling crack to the kids in the hood and your parents robbed a 7/11 to give you the money , for example ) - there may be problems .
In the second year the # 15,000 from the first year will still earn interest , and any new money you put in will also earn interest from the time you deposit it . All the interest is tax free .
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
Here is a quick way to estimate the reduction in your term . The numbers you need to start with are in bold . Take the amount of the extra principal payment . For example , # 500 . Take your interest rate . For example , 2 % / year ( as an APR ) . Calculate your monthly interest rate , and convert to a decimal . For example , 2 % / year * ( year/12 months ) = 1/6 of 1 % / month ~ 0.001666666 / month . Add 1 to the monthly interest rate . For example , 1.001666666 . Find the number of months remaining on your loan . For example , 20 years * ( 12 months/year ) = 240 months . Raise the value from step 4 to the power from step 5 . For example , 1.001666666 ^ 240 ~ 1.4913 . Multiply the value from step 6 by the extra principal payment from step 1 . For example , 1.4913 * # 500 ~ # 745 . This is the amount of money you will avoid paying at the end of the mortgage . Find the amount you are paying per month for principal and interest . Do n't include taxes , insurance , or homeowners dues . For example , # 750/month . Divide the amount from step 7 by the monthly amount from step 8 . This is the number of months by which you have shortened your mortgage . In this example , you have shortened your mortgage by a little less than one month . For low interest rates ( like 2 % / year ) , you can ignore the compounding within each year . You can convert the APR to a decimal , add 1 , and raise to the power of the number of years remaining . For example , 1.02 ^ 20 ~ 1.4859 . Then continue with step 7 . For example , # 743 / ( # 750/month ) is still a little less than one month . If your interest rate is positive , this approximation is conservative . It will slightly underestimate your savings ( or overestimate how much time is left on your mortgage ) . If you really need to be accurate , you can redo the calculation using the new length of the mortgage . For example , 239 months instead of 240 months . In this example , the difference is very small . But if your monthly interest rate times the number of months you shortened the mortgage is " big enough " , then this correction might matter .
The " D " suffix is designated for stocks that are going through a corporate reorganization and is typically applied for those stocks that is about to or just has undergone a reverse split . It typically lasts about 20 trading days ( almost a calendar month ) . In the case of MDCN ( Medican Enterprises ) is traded as MDCND for the period 20150418 until 20150514 . On 20150515 it reverted back to MDCN . It had a 10:1 reverse split with exdate 20150420 . Regarding multiple tickers - a ticker is just a point-in-time identifier . This company has had many tickers across its lifetime : TCXC TCXB TCXBD MDCN MDCND and possible XCAL and XCALE . The 5th letter suffix is detailed here : <URL>
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
Among possible sources of error : What is the nominal interest rate and compounding period ? What is the effective interest rate per payment period ? Does the lender take into account the different number of days in the months , in amortizing a monthly payment mortgage ? Has the lender added any fees or costs to the principal amount ? Some lenders insist on paying property taxes ( since the city gets first crack at the property ahead of any lender ) , or fire insurance premiums ( since it 's their collateral that could burn down )
If you want to subcontract some of your excess work to somebody else , you better be in business ! While some kinds of employees ( e.g. commissioned salespeople ) are permitted to deduct some expenses on their income tax , generally only a real business can deduct wages for additional employees , or the cost of services provided by subcontractors . Do you invoice your clients and charge <URL> ? Or do you tell your clients each pay period how many hours you worked and they compensate you through their payroll system like everybody else that walks through the door ? If you 're not invoicing and charging HST ( GST ) ( assuming you exceed the <URL> , and if you have too much work , you probably do ! ) , then perhaps your clients are treating you as an employee -- by default -- and withholding taxes , CPP , and EI so they do n't get in trouble ? After all , Canada Revenue Agency is likely to consider any person providing a service to a company to be an employee unless there is sufficient evidence to the contrary , and when there is n't enough evidence , it 's the company paying for the services that would be <URL> . Carefully consider what <URL> you are operating , or were intending to operate . It 's essential for your business to be structured appropriately if you want to hire or subcontract . You ought to be either self-employed as a sole proprietor , or perhaps incorporated if it makes more sense to your situation . Next , act accordingly . For instance , it 's likely that your business should be taking care of the source deductions , CPP , and EI . In fact , self-employed individuals should n't even be paying into EI -- an independent contractor would n't qualify to make an EI claim if they lost a contract . As an independent , one does n't have a job , one has a business , and EI does n't cover the business itself , only the employees that the business deals with at arm 's length . As a business owner , you would be considered non-arms-length , and exempt from EI . Growing your business in the way that you are suggesting is an important enough a step that you should seek professional advice in advance . Find a good accountant that deals with self-employed individuals &amp; small businesses and run all this by him . He should be able to guide you accordingly . Find a lawyer , too . A lawyer can guide you on how to properly subcontract others while protecting you and your business . Finally , be mindful of what it is you agreed to in your contract with your client : Do they expect all services to be performed by you , personally ? Even if it was n't written down who exactly would be performing the services , there may be an assumption it 's you . Some negotiation may be in order if you want to use subcontractors .
If you 're looking for a quick answer about variable annuities , jump down to the Summary and Citations/Resources sections below . My answer is mostly specific to the US . I 'll try to give an overview of variable annuities and some of the benefits and drawbacks to them , since they 're both heavily marketed and highly complex . The answer is pretty long because VA 's are complex investment vehicles , but I wanted to give as thorough answer as possible . I gleaned much of the information from the <URL> and added points that were n't covered sufficiently . I hope other members can give detailed answers about other forms of annuities . Overview In their simplest form , annuities normally have two <URL> : The accumulation phase - The customer ( you ) deposits money into the account The distribution/payout phase - The insurance company pays the customer until the death of the person ( s ) ( " annuitants " ) listed in the contract . <URL> as : An insurance contract in which , at the end of the accumulation stage , the insurance company guarantees a minimum payment [ to the customer ] . The remaining income payments can vary depending on the performance of the managed portfolio . The managed portfolio usually invests in a mixture of mutual funds , but variable annuities differ from mutual funds in a standard brokerage account or other investment vehicles , like IRA 's , 401K 's , etc. , in several ways . ( Much of the following information is summarized from the SEC 's <URL> on variable annuities . ) Since variable annuities allow you to receive periodic payments for either the rest of your life or the rest of a designated person 's life , they protect you against the possibility that , after you retire , you outlive your assets , e.g. your IRA , 401K , etc. . Many variable annuities come with a death benefit . If you die before the beginning of the distribution phase , your designated beneficiary is guaranteed to receive a specific amount . This amount is typically at least the amount of your purchase payments . Your beneficiary may even profit financially if , at the time of your death , your account value is less than the amount guaranteed by the insurance company . Some annuities offer a " stepped-up death benefit , " in which the death benefit is greater than the amount of the payments . However , additional fees will most likely apply ( see below ) . Variable annuities are tax-deferred investment vehicles , so you pay no taxes on the income or investment/capital gains from your annuity until you withdraw your money . However , when you withdraw money out of a variable annuity , you are taxed on the earnings at ordinary income tax rates rather than the lower capital gains rates . In general , the benefits of tax deferral will outweigh the costs of a variable annuity only if you hold it as a long-term investment to meet retirement and other long-range goals , and even then , this might not be the case . The third point , especially the part I emphasized , is extremely important . The SEC page gives the following warning , and I think it 's best if I quote it in its entirety ( and obviously , that anyone interested in a variable annuity reads it completely ) : Caution ! Other investment vehicles , such as IRAs and employer-sponsored 401 ( k ) plans , also may provide you with tax-deferred growth and other tax advantages . For most investors , it will be advantageous to make the maximum allowable contributions to IRAs and 401 ( k ) plans before investing in a variable annuity . In addition , if you are investing in a variable annuity through a tax-advantaged retirement plan ( such as a 401 ( k ) plan or IRA ) , you will get no additional tax advantage from the variable annuity . Under these circumstances , consider buying a variable annuity only if it makes sense because of the annuity 's other features , such as lifetime income payments and death benefit protection . The tax rules that apply to variable annuities can be complicated -- before investing , you may want to consult a tax adviser about the tax consequences to you of investing in a variable annuity . Remember : Variable annuities are designed to be long-term investments , to meet retirement and other long-range goals . Variable annuities are not suitable for meeting short-term goals because substantial taxes and insurance company charges may apply if you withdraw your money early . Variable annuities also involve investment risks , just as mutual funds do . If you invest in a variable annuity through a retirement plan , not only will not receive any additional tax benefit , but the fees and charges will probably add up to provide you less benefit than had you invested in similar mutual funds in your retirement plan directly . Charges and Fees Variable annuities often come with various charges and fees that decrease the overall return on the investment and may potentially make them unsuitable investments for some people . Surrender charges - If you withdraw money from a variable annuity
Those choices are n't mutually exclusive . Yes , most discussion of the mortgage interest deduction ignores the fact that for a standard itemizer , much , if not all of this deduction can be lost . For 2011 , the std deduction for a single is $ 5,800 . It 's not just mortgage interest that 's deductible , state income tax , realestate tax , and charitable contributions are among the other deductions . If this house is worth $ 350K , the property tax is about $ 5K , and since it 's not optional , I 'd be inclined to assume that it 's the deduction that offsets the std deduction . Most states have an income tax , which tops off the rest . You are welcome to toss this aside as sophistry , but I view it as these other deductions as ' lost ' first . I 'm married , and our property tax is more than our standard deduction , so when doing the math , the mortgage is fully deductible , as are our contributions . In your case , the numbers may play out differently . No state tax ? Great , so it 's the property tax and deductions you 'd add up first and decide on the value the mortgage deduction brings . Last , I do n't have my mortgage for the deduction , I just believe that long term my other investments will exceed , after tax , the cost of that mortgage .
From the <URL> : Deduction over $ 500 for certain clothing or household items . You must include with your return a qualified appraisal of any single item of clothing or any household item that is not in good used condition or better , that you donated after August 17 , 2006 , and for which you deduct more than $ 500 . See Household Goods and Used Clothing , earlier . Based on this quote , it is per item , not per total . However , if you donate more than $ 5K , an appraisal report is needed . In any case you need to keep all the receipts , and be able to substantiate your donation . I suggest keeping photographs of the donated items , and write down the prices in the thrift shop at which you 're donating , as the donation value . Edit I understand from your comment that you asked about the Kentucky State taxes . Similarly to Federal , you fill everything on Schedule A of your State tax form . From my brief reading , they 're following the Federal rules , and require form 8283 for non-cash donations over $ 500 . You only fill the form once , if total donations is over $ 500 , but on the form you write down items over $ 500 / $ 5000 separately with additional supporting documents ( appraisals etc ) if needed , or nothing - if not needed ( for items below $ 500 ) .
In Minnesota , based on the <URL> , I believe that anything that is deductible for federal income taxes is deductible for the Minnesota State income tax . What is federal taxable income ( FTI ) ? Federal taxable income is the tax base used to calculate federal income tax liability . It is also the starting point for calculating Minnesota taxable income , the tax base used to calculate Minnesota income tax liability . Federal taxable income equals federal adjusted gross income ( FAGI ) after deductions and exemptions . Specifically , these are excluded ( bold added by myself ) : What kinds of income are excluded from FAGI ? FAGI excludes : deductible IRA , SEP , and SIMPLE contributions ; nontaxable employee fringe benefits ; student loan interest payments ; Health Savings Account contributions and investment income ; moving expenses ; one-half of self-employment tax ; health insurance premiums ( for self-employed taxpayers only ) ; penalty on early withdrawal of savings ; alimony paid by the taxpayer ; for tax year 2008 only , the first $ 500 of property taxes paid by standard deduction filers ( $ 1,000 for married joint filers ) ; and , through tax year 2009 , $ 250 of teacher classroom expenses and $ 4,000 of tuition expenses for higher education . FAGI does not exclude child support paid by the taxpayer . And finally the key statements : What itemized deductions are allowed ? Itemized deductions are allowed for the following : Payments of state and local property taxes and income taxes Mortgage interest Charitable contributions Medical expenses in excess of 7.5 percent of income Casualty and theft losses in excess of 10 percent of income Job expenses and miscellaneous expenses ( most only allowed in excess of 2 percent of income ) Obviously this is n't foolproof , as tax law always has " exceptions " but this is the best answer I 've found so far .
I am looking at a 1040A . Line 11a asks for total IRA distributions . 11b asks for the taxable amount . Enter " QCD " as explanation and remove the Qualified Charitable Deduction amount from 11a to get 11b which is added to your income if there 's any positive balance .
end question
start question
Working but still in college , worth investing ?
I would pile up your extra cash to use when you wo n't be able to work as much . This will prevent you from adding debt during that time . Because you 'll need the money in the short term ( less than 5 years ) , your best place to put it is a savings account earning a dismal amount of interest .
Resident Alien is liable for the same taxes as a citizen . Citizenship has nothing to do with taxes .
I called the help line . They instructed me to use their Basic PAYE Tools to do an earlier year update with ' Final submission because scheme ceased ' box ticked , roughly as per <URL> .
It 's really a calculated risk . The most you gain is for the growth to be tax free , the downside ( for the excess funds ) is the growth is taxed plus the 10 % penalty . I 'd suggest a simple strategy . Deposit as much as you can , early on , until the balance approaches the current 4 yr college cost . Then , just add enough to match the current cost , i.e. . If college costs grow more than the account , just make up that difference .
is it worth it ? That is for you to judge . The risks are having it blowup in your face , and you having to pay a penalty , or go to jail . The issue is how you keep it secret , and who you keep it secret from . If you have money in a secret account and keep it hidden even though you : file your taxes ; have to file for bankruptcy ; get divorced ; apply for financial aid ; You are taking a big risk . If the knowledge of the contents of the secret stash would cause a judge or government agency to make a different decision , you could face penalties ranging from monetary to jail time . The government could also decide that they need to determine the source of the funds . They may want to know if the money was " earned " through illegal means . They will want to determine if the funds should haven taxed not just on the interest but if the original income tax was ever collected . If the amounts are large enough the taxing authority and police will have a lot of fun pulling apart your entire financial history . Oh and the lawyers you pay to keep you out of jail will also have their fun . why do some people do it ? They are greedy ; or paranoid ; or they do n't trust others ; or they are criminals .
I have several as well , ( acquired the same way as you ) and I am happy with the idea . They are very stable and that is the reason they pay so little . I do n't think you can get a low risk and medium ( or high ) return . The interest does reset every six months so you do get a bit of the market , should the fed set interest rates higher , you bonds will eventually reflect that . Bonds and Certificates of Deposit are just one element of your investment portfolio . Put the money you ca n't lose into bonds , the money you can into higher risk stocks . Bonds are great from our grandparent 's perspective because they are NOT going to lose value . ( My grandparents were depression era folks who wanted that stability ) They are trivial to give as gifts . Most other investment forms require a heavy bit more of legal work I would think .
No . But there are some states in which a state income tax deduction is offered only for in-state 529 plans . Your child can go to any college regardless of 529 state .
Is your ( and your spouse 's , I assume ) retirement fund in order ? Make sure you 're on track with that first . Your children are slated to go to college starting around 2024 . The value of a college education is already being called into question now . I expect this scrutiny to continue . A lot of schools offer a junker education at Ferrari prices . College does n't have to cost in the six-figure range . How about low five figures ? Take CLEP exams to place out of as many classes as possible -- perhaps up to two full years . Then look for deals for the other two years . This can be paid for with a part-time job while living at home . That , and if your kids get bitten by the entrepreneurial bug , they might see college as a waste of time . Worry less about the tax savings that you 'd get with a 529 plan and worry more about bringing down the cost of the education . That savings will dwarf what you 'd save with the 529 .
The mutual fund will price at day 's end , while the ETF trades during the day , like a stock . If you decide at 10am , that some event will occur during the day that will send the market up , the ETF is preferable . Aside from that , the expenses are identical , a low .14 % . No real difference especially in a Roth .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
<URL> You may be able to get tax back for some of the bills you have to pay because you have to work at home on a regular basis . You can only claim for things to do with your work , eg business telephone calls or the extra cost of gas and electricity for your work area . You ca n't claim for things that you use for both private and business use , eg rent or broadband access . You do n't need to provide records for claims of up to # 4 per week ( # 18 per month ) . For claims over # 4 per week you 'll need to provide evidence of what you 've spent . Claims up to # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return if you already fill one in . If you do n't already fill in a Self Assessment tax return , and your allowable expenses are under # 2,500 for the tax year , fill in form P87 and send it to the address on the form . If you 've made a successful claim in a previous tax year and your expenses are less than # 1,000 ( or # 2,500 for professional fees and subscriptions ) , you may be able to make your claim by phone . Claims over # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return .
Dollar cost averaging is a fancy name someone came up with to say " Invest all of the time " . I would not bother with spreading out purchases . If the market is too expensive right now ... so what ? The items you sell will bring top dollar . The fund you buy will cost top dollar . It all evens out . You could sell your assets and just sit on cash , but that would require knowing when the next market drop is coming . . which no one knows . Also , it never really is cash ; it goes into a money market fund which is not guaranteed . I would rather own companies ( VSTAX ) and collect the dividend .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
Several , actually : Maintenance costs . As landlord , you are liable for maintaining the basic systems of the dwelling - structure , electrical , plumbing , HVAC . On top of that , you typically also have to maintain anything that comes with the space , so if you 're including appliances like a W/D or fridge , if they crap out you could spend a months ' rent or more replacing them . You are also required to keep the property up to city codes as far as groundskeeping unless you specifically assign those responsibilities to your tenant ( and in some states you are not allowed to do so , and in many cases renters expect groundskeeping to come out of their rent one way or the other ) . Failure to do these things can put you in danger of giving your tenant a free out on the lease contract , and even expose you to civil and criminal penalties if you 're running a real slum . Escrow payments . The combination of property tax and homeowner 's insurance usually doubles the monthly housing payment over principal and interest , and that 's if you got a mortgage for 20 % down . Also , because this is not your primary residence , it 's ineligible for Homestead Act exemptions ( where available ; states like Texas are considering extending Homestead exemptions to landlords , with the expectation it will trickle down to renters ) , however mortgage interest and state taxes do count as " rental expenses " and can be deducted on Schedule C as ordinary business expenses offsetting revenues . Income tax . The money you make in rent on this property is taxable as self-employment income tax ; you 're effectively running a sole proprietorship real-estate management company , so not only does any profit ( you are allowed to deduct maintenance and administrative costs from the rent revenues ) get added to whatever you make in salary at your day job , you 're also liable for the full employee and employer portions of Medicare/Medicaid/SS taxes . You are , however , also allowed to depreciate the property over its expected life and deduct depreciation ; the life of a house is pretty long , and if you depreciate more than the house 's actual loss of value , you take a huge hit if/when you sell because any amount of the sale price above the depreciated price of the house is a capital gain ( though , it can work to your advantage by depreciating the maximum allowable to reduce ordinary income , then paying lower capital gains rates on the sale ) . Legal costs . The rental agreement typically has to be drafted by a lawyer in order to avoid things that can cause the entire contract to be thrown out ( though there are boilerplate contracts available from state landlords ' associations ) . This will cost you a few hundred dollars up front and to update it every few years . It is deductible as an ordinary expense . Advertising . Putting up a " For Rent " sign out front is typically just the tip of the iceberg . Online and print ads , an ad agency , these things cost money . It 's deductible as an ordinary expense . Add this all up and you may end up losing money in the first year you rent the property , when legal , advertising , initial maintenance/purchases to get the place tenant-ready , etc are first spent ; deduct it properly and it 'll save you some taxes , but you better have the nest egg to cover these things on top of everything your lender will expect you to bring to closing ( assuming you do n't have $ 100k + lying around to buy the house in cash ) .
As Dilip has pointed out in the comment , investing in commodities is to either delivery or Buy . Lets say you entered into buying " X " quantities of Soybeans in November , contract is entered into May . In November , if the price is higher than what you purchased for , you can easily sell this , and make money . If in November , the price is lower than your contract price , you have an option to sell it at loss . If you do n't want to sell it at loss , you are supposed to take the physical shipment [ arrange for your own transport ] and store it in warehouse . Although there are companies that will allow you to lease their warehouse , it very soon becomes more loss making proposition . By doing this you can HOLD onto as long as you want [ or as long as the good survive and do n't rot ] It makes sense for a large wholesaler to enter into Buy contracts as he would be like to get known prices for at least half the stock he needs . Similarly large farmers / co-operative societies need to enter into Sell contracts so that they are safeguarded against price fluctuations .
I have about $ 1K in savings , and have been told that you should get into investment and saving for retirement early . I make around $ 200 per week , which about $ 150 goes into savings . That 's $ 10k per year . The general rule of thumb is that you should have six months income as an emergency fund . So your savings should be around $ 5k . Build that first . Some argue that the standard should be six months of living expenses rather than income . Personally , I think that this example is exactly why it is income rather than living expenses . Six months of living expenses in this case would only be $ 1250 , which wo n't pay for much . And note that living expenses can only be calculated after the fact . If your estimate of $ 50 a week is overly optimistic , you might not notice for months ( until some large living expense pops up ) . Another problem with using living expenses as the measure is that if you hold down your living expenses to maximize your savings , this helps both measures . Then you hit your savings target , and your living expenses increase . So you need more savings . By contrast , if your income increases but your living expenses do not , you still need more savings but you can also save more money . Does n't really change the basic analysis though . Either way you have an emergency savings target that you should hit before starting your retirement savings . If you save $ 150 per week , then you should have around $ 4k in savings at the beginning of next year . That 's still low for an emergency fund by the income standard . So you probably should n't invest next year . With a living expenses standard , you could have $ 6250 in savings by April 15th ( deadline for an IRA contribution that appears in the previous tax year ) . That 's $ 5000 more than the $ 1250 emergency fund , so you could afford an IRA ( probably a Roth ) that year . If you save $ 7500 next year and start with $ 4k in savings ( under the income standard for emergency savings ) , that would leave you with $ 11,500 . Take $ 5500 of that and invest in an IRA , probably a Roth . After that , you could make a $ 100 deposit per week for the next year . Or just wait until the end . If you invested in an IRA the previous year because you decided use the living expenses standard , you would only have $ 6500 at the end of the year . If you wait until you have $ 6750 , you could max out your IRA contribution . At that point , your excess income for each year would be larger than the maximum IRA contribution , so you could max it out until your circumstances change . If you do n't actually save $ 3k this year and $ 7500 next year , do n't sweat it . A college education is enough of an investment at your age . Do that first , then emergency savings , then retirement . That will flip around once you get a better paying , long term job . Then you should include retirement savings as an expected cost . So you 'd pay the minimum required for your education loans and other required living expenses , then dedicate an amount for retirement savings , then build your emergency savings , then pay off your education loans ( above the minimum payment ) . This is where it can pay to use the more aggressive living expenses standard , as that allows you to pay off your education loans faster . I would invest retirement savings in a nice , diversified index fund ( or two since maintaining the correct stock/bond mix of 70 % -75 % stocks is less risky than investing in just bonds much less just stocks ) . Investing in individual stocks is something you should do with excess money that you can afford to lose . Secure your retirement first . Then stock investments are gravy if they pan out . If they do n't , you 're still all right . But if they do , you can make bigger decisions , e.g. buying a house . Realize that buying individual stocks is about more than just buying an app . You have to both check the fundamentals ( which the app can help you do ) and find other reasons to buy a stock . If you rely on an app , then you 're essentially joining everyone else using that app . You 'll make the same profit as everyone else , which wo n't be much because you all share the profit opportunities with the app 's system . If you want to use someone else 's system , stick with mutual funds . The app system is actually more dangerous in the long term . Early in the app 's life cycle , its system can produce positive returns because a small number of people are sharing the benefits of that system . As more people adopt it though , the total possible returns stay the same . At some point , users saturate the app . All the possible returns are realized . Then users are competing with each other for returns . The per user returns will shrink as usage grows . If you have your own system , then you are competing with fewer people for the returns from it . Share the fundamental analysis , but pick your stocks based on other criteria . Fundamental analysis will tell you if a stock is overvalued . The other criteria will tell you which
Check use is declining here too , but it still has some practical advantages over electronic means : It does not require the receiving party to provide any account number to the paying party ( directly or indirectly ) . The receiving party does not even have to have a bank account at all , since a check can be cashed at the bank on which its drawn . The receiving party can frequently deposit a check with no fees . For the most part businesses taking payments electronically pay for the service . Many small " mom &amp; pop " businesses do n't want to pay or can not afford to pay those fees . It works ( as in the example you gave in the question ) when electronic transactions fail , precisely because it is low-tech . Even online transactions sometimes get converted to check in the end . I can use " online bill pay " for almost any transaction ( including to pay back a friend where no real " bill " exists ) , but the bank sends a physical check to many such parties ( especially if it goes to a friend who is n't going to be registered in the bank 's system ) . It 's a matter of opinion whether the electronic transactions are " better . " I certainly find them to be more convenient in many cases , but people used to the old system still like it , and it generally works , so there 's no specific reason to kill it . For some specific purpose like paying taxes , you get slightly better treatment paying by check because most transactions are credited based on the postmark on the physical mail but get debited from your account based on when the check clears the banking system . That only buys you about a week , but for some people that week might be worth the " hassle " of writing a physical check . Relative to cash , the check is safer and creates a self-documenting transaction because the cleared check is a legal record of the transaction . ( Obviously electronic transactions also share these features . )
The main risks will depend on where your funds are invested . If you select a more aggressive allocation like shares and property your investment funds will be more susceptible to short term market risks , if however you select a more conservative allocation like fixed interest and bonds you will be exposed to less short term market risk . However , if you want to save on fees you might look into an industry fund rather than a retail fund . Industry funds are generally non-for profit , have lower fees and many have better medium and long term returns than most retail funds . Being over 60 and still working you may qualify for a Transition to Retirement Pension . Here you can start a pension and receive the income tax free from your super , whilst salary sacrificing part of your pay to reduce tax outside of super . EDIT With regard to the fund manager going bankrupt your funds are actually held on trust for you and held entirely separately from the fund manager 's capital . Your funds are also protected by strict regulations . What happens to the financial status of your fund manager has little or no direct impact on your funds . So if your fund manager collapses , then largely your funds remain intact but a new fund manager might become the new administrator of your super fund . As I said previously the main risks to your funds would be primarily the asset allocation you chose and the level of fees you are paying . If you are ever unhappy with your current fund you can fairly easily roll over your super to a different fund .
No , since you 're a non-resident alien you can not claim it . Had you been resident when you paid that tuition , you might have been able to claim it . You 're only a US resident for tax purposes starting of the first day of your TN status , and since you do n't pay US taxes on your earnings before that - you also do n't get credits . You should , of course , verify this with a licensed tax adviser ( which I 'm not ) .
end question
start question
Is it possible to track meter readings in GnuCash ?
It 's not native functionality , but you could probably do it . You could create a fake security/currency for the meter type ( kWh , whatever gas/water get measured in ) . Updating would be a pain , though . You 'd have to go read it and enter the data manually -- unless it was a smart meter , and then you could probably build some sort of script for it . In terms of figuring how much to pay -- maybe have an account in liabilities for stuff you have n't paid for yet , and another in assets for what you have paid for ? This seems like it could be a lot more complicated than it 's worth .
According to <URL> : Loans can only be re-consolidated if the borrower has a new loan to add . ABC News <URL> : In 2006 , Congress eliminated joint consolidation loans for married couples So it would seem that you can consolidate her loans into one or two loans , but those can not be combined with yours .
If this is her primary residence and the mortgage is secured by it - then yes , she can deduct the mortgage interest . The caveat : she has to either be on the title , or on the mortgage . Source : <URL> . IRC Section 163 deals with all the interest deductions and as such is quite hard to read and follow . In order to understand how to follow the statute , the Treasury issues regulations . Regulation <URL> is dealing with the IRC section 163 . This is what the regulation 1.163-1 ( B ) has to tell us : ( b ) Interest paid by the taxpayer on a mortgage upon real estate of which he is the legal or equitable owner , even though the taxpayer is not directly liable upon the bond or note secured by such mortgage , may be deducted as interest on his indebtedness . Thus , the answer to your question , as user662852 suggested in the comment , depends on whether she 's on the title ( or otherwise has ownership interest , if for example it is purchased with community funds in a community property state - check with a local lawyer . ) . Keep in mind that MFS rules affect what and how much deductions you can take , so you need to check carefully whether MFS is suitable for you .
At a very high-level , the answer is yes , that 's a good idea . For money that you want to invest on the scale of decades , putting money into a broad , market-based fund has historically given the best returns . Something like the Vanguard S&amp;P 500 automatically gives you a diverse portfolio , with super low expenses . As it sounds like you understand , the near-term returns are volatile , and if you really think you might want this money in the next few years , then the stock market might not be the best choice . As a final note , as one of the comments mentioned , it makes sense to hold a broad , market-based fund for your IRA as well , if possible .
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
One risk with any investment denominated in foreign currency is the exchange rate risk . Specifically , if the value of your local currency increases relative to the Australian Dollar , then it has the potential to reduce , eliminate , or even give you a negative return on your investment unless you plan to keep the proceeds in Australian currency . Of course , this could work to your advantage to and enhance your return if your local currency gets weaker relative to the foreign currency .
According to Clark Howard . The best mix is to have at least two reward cards for no other reason than rewards , but you actually should have more as far as credit score goes . 30 % of your credit score is based on how much of your credit that you use . I had only 17k in credit . I usually spend 6k a month and pay it off every month . I went to 4 credit cards got the total line up to over 40k and because my usage went down to about 12 % of total credit , my credit score went up about 40 points to mid 700 's after two months Long story short the more credit cards you have the better for your credit score . You should use each one twice a year to keep them active . ( Not relevant for a store credit card , you do n't want to buy something from macy 's for the sake of keeping the card active )
The vast majority of retail Forex brokers are market makers , rather than ECNs . With that said , the one that fits your description mostly closely is Interactive Brokers , is US-based , and well-respected . They have a good amount of exoitcs available . Many ECNs do n't carry these because of the mere fact that they make money on transactions , versus market makers who make money on transactions and even more on your losses . So , if the business model is to make money only on transactions , and they are as rarely traded as exotics are , there 's no money to be made .
It is definitely legal and will be accounted by the IRS as earned income .
I 'm going to take the " Expense Piechart " report in GnuCash 2.4.8 as my primary example ; other reports may have slightly different options . Open the report you want to use . Click " Edit report options " in the toolbar or Edit menu . In the Accounts tab , the " Show Accounts until level : " option cuts off subaccounts , and you may wish to increase it . For example , I keep expense accounts like " Expenses : Entertainment : Games " , and if I want to see that specific account I have to set this option to 3 , instead of the default 2 . In the Display tab , the " Maximum Slices " ( " Maximum Bars " for bar charts ) controls how many accounts are shown before the rest are grouped as an " Other " entry . If you want to keep this configuration for future use , you can either leave the report tab open indefinitely , or save a custom report : In the General tab of the report options , give the report a new name . This is necessary . Click the Save ( floppy disk ) icon in the toolbar .
Each merchant is assigned a category , and all the purchases through that merchant fall into that category . If a merchant qualifies for more than one category ( e.g. : Costco &amp; Costco Gas ) , then for different purchases the merchant will use different merchant ID 's . These codes are called " <URL> " , and the merchant fees are also decided based on the category assigned to the merchant ( the same merchant with several codes will pay higher fees on some codes than the others ) . You can see the purchase categories on your credit card purchases regardless of whether you get rewards or not , this information is usually available through your statement or on-line .
What you 're looking for is the ' Transaction Report ' . When you 're looking at the report ( it comes up empty ) , open the options and click on the first tab ' Accounts ' . Here you can highlight multiple source accounts in the top pane , and filter by the Expense accounts that you are interested in the bottom pane . Here 's an <URL> that goes over the process ( there are many examples online , I just included the first one that came up in a search ) .
Inflation gets a lot of press but people rarely stop to think about how they would measure inflation . Prices do not go up equally for all items in the market . Market prices are ever changing in response to supply , consumer demand , and money devaluation . New money printed by the Fed ( in the US ) may flow into one area of the economy and not affect other areas which would causes certain items to be more inflationary than others . As you mention , different people will have varying levels of exposure to the items that are inflating more rapidly than others . I may have a long commute to work so I 'm more exposed to rising prices in gas . You may live in a city and walk to work so gas prices do not affect you as much . I may be a vegetarian so I 'm not sensitive to meat , pork , and chicken prices . There are also lots of items that I never purchase that are used to calculate the inflation rate . Inflation is not as easy to measure as some think . The only way I know to measure a personal inflation rate would be to track your expenses every month ( by unit - $ per 16 oz of bread , $ per gallon of gas , etc. ) . If you see your personal inflation rate rising faster than the government rate then you know you are more exposed to inflation ( at least according to the government 's way of measuring inflation - which uses <URL> , geometrically weighted averages , <URL> , and other political magic ) . In short , if your expenses do not match the CPI expense distribution ( see chart ) then you will not have the same level of exposure to the government reported inflation .
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
Yes , many banks offer such a service . Often such payments can be made through their " bill pay " interface . You log in to your account on the bank 's website , enter the recipient 's routing and account numbers , and off you go . You could ask your bank whether they offer this . If not , you could change banks to one that does .
The shares available to short are a portion of those shares held by the longs . This number is actually much easier to determine outside of active trading hours , but either way does n't really impact the matter at hand since computers are pretty good at counting things . If your broker is putting up obstacles to your issuing sell short limit orders in the pre-market then there is likely some other reason ( maybe they reserve that function to " premium " account holders ? )
No , in your situation it is not possible . Mostly , only three types of accounts are available to individuals : Savings ( Resident ) : You need to be in India to get this account . For identification , either only passport ( Indian passport ; or foreign passport with Indian work visa ) is required , or few other types of address and identity proofs are must . Maybe a foreigner living in India can get this , as anybody who lives in India for minimum 182 days in a financial year , is Indian resident for tax purposes . Obviously the ones on tourist visa can not stay that long , unless they are of Indian origin . NRE ( Non Resident ) . Any Indian citizen who is NOT in India for minimum 182 days in a year , is eligible to open this account . If he moves out , he is supposed to convert resident account to this or NRO . Money can come in only from outside India . You can spend this money freely in India . As of today there is no tax , and you can take the money out of India without any issues . NRO ( Non Resident ) same as above , except money can only come from inside India , there is a 30 % tax , and upper ceiling for repatriation of money . So , a complete foreigner can open account in India , only if he is working in India , a type of Savings account , and that account too will be linked to his resident status . If he leaves work , he needs to close this account . Edit : There are business accounts , and current accounts , but those are available only to businesses . Further read at <URL>
There 's a bit of confusion here . Michael 's article you linked is focused on the issue of post-tax 401 ( k ) deposits . For those new to this , it sounds like we are talking about Roth 401 ( k ) money . Not so . The Roth IRA was introduced in 1998 , and the Roth 401 ( k ) in 2006 . Before ' 06 , people had the ability to deposit more to their 401 ( k ) than the pretax limit of $ 15,000 into the account as " after tax " deposits . My understanding is that these funds were analogous to the non-deducted IRA deposits for those outside the income limits . Michael goes on the point out that now , with the addition of Roth 401 ( k ) and Roth IRAs , there are folk with pre and post Tax 401 ( k ) funds and trying to crack them for transfer to Traditional IRA and Roth IRA may be problematic . Aside from a <URL> , there are separate accounts for the Roth 401 ( k ) and Traditional 401 ( k ) , and it 's possible for the traditional to contain post tax money , which , given the recent <URL> , should be easily addressable .
In theory , yes . In practice : Most cards charge a 3 % or so fee on balance transfer . If you slip and let you balance go past " free balance transfer " time limits , you 'll quickly pay more in interest than you gained from keeping free credit around . You 'll need an endless supply of free transfer cards to keep shuffling it around - what if one day it so happens that none is offering it right now and your current free transfer is about to expire ? Again , you 'll pay a lot . Doing this ( opening new accounts frequently ) may hurt your credit rating , which may hurt your chance of getting new deals , which would lead to problems described above . So it can be gamed , but the odds are not on your side :)
<URL> . Because you need to issue a 1099 to them ( so they can file their own taxes ) , I do n't think there 's a way that you could just combine all of them . Additionally , you may want to <URL> in case they should be employees .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get a Visa or Mastercard Gift Card in the US and use it to buy UK products that require a UK billing address ?
This does n't directly pertain to international transactions but may be relevant . I got an American Express gift card over the holidays , and I tried to use it at an online merchant . The card was declined because it failed address verification . I called American Express gift card services ( number was on the gift card ) , and they knew immediately what the problem was and fixed it . They simply took my address and added it as a billing address on the card . I retried the payment and it went through right away . It may be worth calling the gift card company and asking them to simply add your billing address .
could I decline it so the money would be returned back to the account they were transferred from ? As a general banking practise , there is nothing automated that will allow you to mark something as return the funds . You would have to approach your Bank with a written statement mentioning that you do n't recognise this credit as belonging to you and request the bank to take appropriate action .
Here are a few ways : If you have all of your pay stubs , you can calculate your gross pay . If the deductions are broken out , you can calculate how much was withheld . If your pay stub has year-to-date totals for each deduction , take the last paycheck of the year to see what the 2012 totals were . If all of your paychecks are the same , you can estimate by taking the deductions and gross amount of one paycheck and multiply it by the number of paychecks to get the totals .
The general answer is : " it depends on how long you want to live there " . Here is a good calculator to figure it out : <URL> Basically , if you plan to move in a few years , then renting makes more sense . It is a lot easier to move from an apartment when your lease is up versus selling a house , which can be subject to fluctuations in the real-estate market . As an example , during the real estate bubble , a lot of " young professional " types bought condos and town homes instead of renting . Now these people are married with kids , need to move somewhere bigger , but they ca n't get rid of their old place because they ca n't sell it for what they still owe . If these people had rented for a few years , they would be in a better position financially . ( Many people fell for the mantra " If you are renting , you are throwing your money away " , without looking at the long-term implications . ) However , your question is a little unique , because you mentioned renting for the rest of your life , and putting the savings into an investment , which is a cool idea . ( Thinking outside the box , I like it . ) I 'm going to assume you mean " rent the same place for many years " versus " moving around the country every few years " . If you are staying in one place for a long time , I am going to say that buying a house is probably a better option . Here 's why : With a mortgage , at some point you stop sending a check every month . With rent , the payments never stop . At the end of the mortgage , you have an asset that is worth a lot of money ( your house ) . You can sell it and travel the world , give it to your kids , etc. . ( EDIT : With the rent + invest approach , you would have your investment portfolio as a sizable asset . It is open to discussion which one would come out ahead . ) With a mortgage , your payments are a fixed amount ( unless you have an ARM ) . Inflation drives prices up over time , but your mortgage payment stays the same . In fact , inflation helps the homeowner by making the last mortgage payment " cheaper " than the first one . Rent prices tend to keep pace with inflation . Your landlord will probably increase the rent periodically . There are tax advantages to buying a house ( in the US anyway ) . Your mortgage interest is a tax deduction . There are also tax credits for certain home improvements ( e.g. installing an energy efficient A/C ) . You ca n't take advantage of these when you rent . Over the long term , home prices do go up ( population is increasing , but there is a finite amount of land ) . I am not saying the house is a good " investment " , but its value normally wo n't evaporate over 30 years like some other assets would . In terms of inflation-adjusted dollars , your house should maintain similar " value " over the years , as long as you stay on top of the upkeep ( and your neighborhood does n't become run-down ) . With a mortgage , you are paying interest to a bank , which some would consider to be a " black hole " just like rent . However , you can reduce the money you pay in interest by making extra mortgage payments . Making 1-2 extra payments at the start of your mortgage can save a huge sum of money over the life of the loan . So what about investing ? Let 's look at some numbers : Investing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average would give you ~ 9 % per year , with a lot of volatility ( <URL> ) . Mortgage rates are hovering at about 5 % right now . ( <URL> ) Seems like a good idea to invest , instead of taking out a mortgage , right ? Now , add in an inflation rate of ~ 3 % ( <URL> ) Inflation erodes the effective stock market return , but it helps your mortgage payment by effectively making it cost less over time . Next think about taxes . That 9 % stock market return is taxable income ( which eats into your effective return ) , whereas the mortgage interest is a tax deduction . Inflation and taxes pretty much negate higher rate of return for the stock investment . Additionally , you have the inflationary impacts of a rent payment that increases over time . So , based on the above , I say that buying a house is the way to go ( as long as you plan to live in the same place for several years ) . However , if you could find a better investment than the Dow , or if mortgage interest rates change drastically , things could tip in another direction . Addendum : CrimsonX brought up a good point about the costs of owning a house ( upkeep and property taxes ) , which I did n't mention above . However , I do n't think they change my answer . If you rent , you are still paying those costs . They are just hidden from you . Your landlord pays the contractor or the tax man , and then you pay the landlord as part of your rent .
Technical Analysis in general is something to be cognizant of , I do n't use a majority of studies and consider them a waste of time . I also use quantitative analysis more so than technical analysis , and prefer the insight it gives into the market . The markets are more about predicting other people 's behavior , psychology . So if you are trading an equity that you know retail traders love , retail traders use technical analysis and you can use their fabled channel reversals and support levels against them , as examples . Technical analysis is an extremely broad subject . So I suggest getting familiar , but if your historical pricing charts are covered in various studies , I would say you are doing it wrong . A more objective criticism of technical analysis is that many of the studies were created in the 1980s or earlier . Edges in the market do not typically last more than a few weeks . On the other side of that realization , some technical analysis works if everyone also thinks it will work , if everyone 's charts say buy when the stock reaches the $ 90 price level and everyone does , the then stock will go higher . But the market makers and the actions of the futures markets and the actions of options traders , can undermine the collective decisions of retail traders using technical analysis .
There 's a different reason to have more than one credit card . ( If you have three , that 's probably enough . ) Someone can get access to your account number , and start making fraudulent charges . When you report this to the issuer , they cancel your account to prevent further charges . They send you a new one , but there 's a delay . This happened to not one , but two of our credit cards at the same time . Thank goodness we had a third one that we could use in the meantime . If we had had just one card to use , we 'd be cash only until the new cards arrived , which would have been a big inconvenience because we were used to using our card for everything . ( It was inconvenience enough tracking down all of the automatic bill payments we had on the cards that were compromised . )
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
One can get a Loan against security ( or colletral ) for any amount for whatever duration . If you already have FD , you can ask your bank to mark a lien on the FD 's and give you a loan . More better open an current account with Over Draft limit . The rate charged is typically around 1 to 1.5 % more than the FD rate . As it would be a current account , you will only be charged to the extent you use the account . You can also get similar facility for your car or any other such assets , Gold for example , shares from
According to <URL> , this started out as a way to fund health insurance and unemployment insurance , and has gradually increased its scope to cover pensions . At least in part , what you can claim back from these systems is connected to what you paid into them - you ca n't just work one week and then claim 51 weeks of unemployment benefit , or a full pension - which makes them different from taxes . As well , the money collected is not supposed to go into general government revenue , but to be used only for the specific programs it funds . The UK is certainly not the only country where employees and employers send a fraction of each paycheque to the government for purposes other than income tax . Here in Canada we have Employment Insurance and Canada Pension Plan contributions as well as income tax that come off every paycheque . It 's just the way the system works - not everything that the government collects as your income is paid to you is in fact an income tax . There are advantages to all of us to keep these accounts separate - I do n't want my pension money spent on a road by someone who wants to get re-elected 20 years before my pension needs to be paid .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
A trailing stop will sell X shares at some percentage below the current market price . Putting in this order with a 10 % trailing stop when the stock price is $ 50 will sell the stock when it hits $ 45 . It 's a market order at that point ( see below ) . A stop order will sell the stock when it reaches a certain price . The stop order becomes a market order when the magic price is hit . This means that you may not sell it at or below your price when the order is executed . But the stock will sell faster because the trader must execute . A stop limit order is the same as a stop order , except the stock wo n't be sold if it ca n't be gotten for the price . As a result , the sell may not be executed . More information <URL> .
If the money awarded is sufficient to cover the cost of supporting their software , then you can at the time of entering the contract make a pledge of the money . However if you need to prove that you have sufficient funds otherwise , you need to ask the organizers what they need , typically a Bank Statement showing the funds may be sufficient in the easiest possible condition , on the other extreme you may need to open an escrow account and deposit the money as safe keeping with the Bank and then produce that letter ... Depending on the country and Bank , certain Banks allow different passowrds for transactions and different for querying , so you can share the query password ...
Keep in mind that many checks are being cashed via scanner or photo . These can be home based , business based or ATM based systems . The key requirement is that the software has to be able to distinguish the " written " parts from the background parts . If the image does n't have enough contrast for the edge detection to work , the check ca n't be easily processed . In that case a human looks at the image and decodes the image and processes the transaction . The image is not in color . Many businesses scan the check and hand the original back to you after having the Point of Sale system process the image . Post 2001 the checks in the united states are no longer moved through the banking system , only their images . With the roll out of these image based systems , in the future almost no physical checks will be seen by banks . Therefore the actual ink color is not important , only the result .
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
There 's a bit of confusion here . Michael 's article you linked is focused on the issue of post-tax 401 ( k ) deposits . For those new to this , it sounds like we are talking about Roth 401 ( k ) money . Not so . The Roth IRA was introduced in 1998 , and the Roth 401 ( k ) in 2006 . Before ' 06 , people had the ability to deposit more to their 401 ( k ) than the pretax limit of $ 15,000 into the account as " after tax " deposits . My understanding is that these funds were analogous to the non-deducted IRA deposits for those outside the income limits . Michael goes on the point out that now , with the addition of Roth 401 ( k ) and Roth IRAs , there are folk with pre and post Tax 401 ( k ) funds and trying to crack them for transfer to Traditional IRA and Roth IRA may be problematic . Aside from a <URL> , there are separate accounts for the Roth 401 ( k ) and Traditional 401 ( k ) , and it 's possible for the traditional to contain post tax money , which , given the recent <URL> , should be easily addressable .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
Yes , your email address is your " PayPal " account . It 's what people use to send you money , and what you use to pay people .
It is not true . They do n't chose rates , the rates are dependent on the contracts between the Visa/Mastercard and the members ( banks issuing and clearing the cards and transactions ) . There may in fact be two conversions : one is from the original currency to USD/EUR , and the other from the USD/EUR to the target ( your home ) currency . If your home currency is EUR , and the original currency is EUR , there should n't be a conversion , but it may so be that there is . It happens if the clearing house or the issuer operate with Visa/MC in USD ( or similarly , in EUR , and the original and target currency is USD ) . Then transactions going through the network will be converted back and forth . It is rare , but I 've seen it happening . The volume of operations is such that neither Visa nor Mastercard will " wait " for a favorable exchange rate - they set the exchange rate . The volume of transactions allows them to offset currencies so that in many cases there 's no real currency exchange necessary at all . For example - $ 1M of purchases by Europeans in the US offset most of the EUR1M purchases of the Americans in Europe . Yet , they will all be charged currency exchange fees , even though most of the currency has n't been exchanged at all . So there 's no need to pick and chose exchange rate , there 's plenty of profit for Visa/MC there as it is .
According to <URL> : Loans can only be re-consolidated if the borrower has a new loan to add . ABC News <URL> : In 2006 , Congress eliminated joint consolidation loans for married couples So it would seem that you can consolidate her loans into one or two loans , but those can not be combined with yours .
end question
start question
What is payment against invoice ?
Payment against invoice means they will pay after you send them an invoice ( typically after services are rendered ) , rather than automatically after delivery ( PAYMENT AFTER DELIVERY ) or ahead of time ( PAYMENT IN ADVANCE ) . Typically with invoice-based payment you would have a term that said what day they will pay you by . For example , NET 7 would indicate they will issue payment a week after invoice is received , NET 90 would be three months later .
Full payment is always better than auto-loan if you are prudent with finances . I.E if you take a loan , you are factoring the EMI hence your savings will remain as is . However if you manage well , you can buy the car with cash and at the same time put aside the notional EMI as savings and investments . The other factor to consider is what return your cash is giving . If this more than auto-loan interest rate post taxes , you should opt for loan . For example if auto-loan is 10 % and you are getting a return of 15 % after taxes on investment then loan is better . Company Car lease depends on terms . More often you get break on taxes on the EMI component . But you have to buy at the end of lease period and re-register the car in your name , so there is additional cost . Some companies give lease at very favourable rates . Plus if you leave the job lease has to be broken and it becomes more expensive .
No , as a director normally you ca n't . As a director of a Limited company , all those payments should be accounted for as directors ' remuneration and have been subject to PAYE and NIC , even if you are self-employed . Currently there is no legislation which prevents a director from receiving self-employment income from a company in which he is a director , however the default position of HMRC 's is that all the payments derived from the directorship are subject to PAYE . In other words , it 's possible only invoice from an unconnected business or in a consultancy role that 's not directly related to the trade of business . But it really depends on the circumstances and the contracts in place . Sources : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> at AW More sources : If a person does other work that 's not related to being a director , they may have an employment contract and get employment rights . Source : <URL> In principle , it is possible for an employee or office holder to tender for work with their employer outside their normal duties , in circumstances where that individual will not be providing service as an employee or office holder but as a self-employed contractor . Where there is any doubt about whether service is provided constitutes employment or self-employment , see the Employment Status Manual ( ESM ) . Source : <URL> at HMRC
<URL> will let you calculate the savings from making a prepayment right away . Run it twice : once with a smaller initial balance , and once with the high balance and the prepayment . If you add the extra $ 10k to your down payment , your monthly payment will be lower . The higher monthly payment you will have with the $ 10k in your first payment means that you 'll be paying more principal every month , right from the beginning . Using the calculator above with a $ 200k mortgage at 5 % fixed for 30y : if you use the $ 10k as a prepayment , you 'll save about $ 22k in interest over the life of the loan , which will be shortened by 38 months . Bottom line : do n't put it into the down payment . But also see <URL> for the trade-off here . That 's assuming a US mortgage , which is different from Canada . I ran the same numbers using <URL> and came up roughly the same amount . ( I find the first calculator above much easier to use , if you are n't worried about losing a little precision in the numbers . )
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable : · $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly . · $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child · $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
The contract should address this issue . It will specify the types of remedies and damages that would result if either side tries to back out of the deal . There can be monetary penalties , and the courts can force the seller to complete the deal . Where I have experienced this it generally takes only a gentle reminder from the agent regarding the consequences . There is also limited indirect protection via the contract between the seller and their real-estate agent . Many times that contract will require the seller to pay the agent their commission if there is n't a valid reason to cancel the deal . The contract was to find a fully qualified buyer . The threat of having to pay 6 % of list price to the agent , and not selling the house can be enough to get them to complete the deal . All this assumes there was fraud , which could bring in criminal penalties .
revised after your edit You 'd be potentially earning $ 8-10K a year after property taxes ( before income taxes ) , and getting the balloon payment in 5 years . Add to that maintenance fees , you would have a $ 30K cushion allowing you to sell at $ 30K loss to break even . So if you sell at gain - you made some money . During the last 5 years the prices fell by 25-50 % , so people who tried this trick 5 years ago are in a very bad place right now . You have a very good chance to join them . However , if the prices are to go up and you are able to sell the property in 5 years , you can make some gain . At current ARM 5/1 rates ( 3.125 % according to zillow mortgage marketplace ) , it looks like you 're borrowing ~ $ 655K , which makes it $ 850K purchase . Prices go down 5 % - you lost all your profits . Prices go up 5 % - you doubled it . Quite a gamble , I 'd say . I think that its insane , for someone who has no idea in real estate , to spend $ 200K in cash and more than half a million in liability , that 's what got us into the housing market collapse to begin with . in addition A point made by @mhoran_psprep is depreciation . For a $ 850K you 're writing off $ 30K a year depreciation . That will be recaptured when you sell , i.e. : if you sell for the same price as you bought it for , you 're going to have $ 150K capital gain on your hands . Which in turn means , assuming current long term capital gains rates , $ 22.5 K tax bill . Current rates are for this year only , and if expire - the tax bill is going to be even higher . $ 30K cushion we calculated above ? Paid to Uncle Sam . Pufff , gone . You 're with 5K left of it , for 5 years period of investing your $ 200K cash . That 's 0.5 % annual ROI . HORRIBLE . You can put your $ 200K in a savings account and get higher guaranteed returns . And that 's with a reasonable scenario of prices staying more or less flat in the next 5 years .
The first step is to contact the company you are considering using as an administrator . Ask if they have a loan provision . For what it 's worth , I looked at <URL> , and it seems to indicate they do not offer loans against this type of 401 ( k ) . That does n't mean no one does , just that you may need to look around .
After using QuickBooks for a while now , I 've come to the conclusion that the payment methods available in QuickBooks are not so much about the actual payment method used for the transaction but the type of account that is used source the funds . That is to say , for transactions funded by a checking account ( e.g. payment via check , debit card , ACH , EFT , etc. ) use the QuickBooks option to Write Checks when recording the transaction . The actual transaction type can be denoted in the check number field .
The default of the country will affect the country obligations and what 's tied to it . If you have treasury bonds , for example - they 'll get hit . If you have cash currency - it will get hit . If you 're invested in the stock market , however , it may plunge , but will recover , and in the long run you wo n't get hit . If you 're invested in foreign countries ( through foreign currency or foreign stocks that you hold ) , then the default of your local government may have less affect there , if at all . What you should not , in my humble opinion , be doing is digging holes in the ground or probably not exchange all your cash for gold ( although it is considered a safe anchor in case of monetary crisis , so may be worth considering some diversifying your portfolio with some gold ) . Splitting between banks might not make any difference at all because the value wo n't change , unless you think that one of the banks will fail ( then just close the account there ) . The bottom line is that the key is diversifying , and you do n't have to be a seasoned investor for that . I 'm sure there are mutual funds in Greece , just pick several different funds ( from several different companies ) that provide diversified investment , and put your money there .
Credit card companies charge 2 % -3 % transaction fees . On typical retail transactions [ buying clothes , groceries , electronic goods , etc ] the margin is in excess of 10-30 % . Hence the Merchants tend to absorb the cost of card from profit margin . In petrol transactions , the dealer make a fixed amount per liter of pertol/desiel sold . They can not absorb the loss of 3 % . Hence they charge additional Fuel surcharge to make up for that loss . Some companies will lift the surcharge fee with a minimum transaction amount . For example , many fuel stations wo n't apply the surcharge if you buy at least 400 Rupees of fuel . There are also Card Tie-up where by Card Issuing Companies absorb this cost and hence no additional surcharge .
In the United States , post-dating a check , on its own , has no valid use . It can be cashed at any time at the discretion of the bank . You would need to send a notice of postdating to your bank describing the check . This does n't prevent the recipient of cashing the check , but it does prevent your bank from charging your account until the date you specify NOTE : This may be considered a form of stop payment , and you may be subject to the fees noted by your institution . Source : [ <URL> ] ( c ) A bank may charge against the account of a customer a check that is otherwise properly payable from the account , even though payment was made before the date of the check , unless the customer has given notice to the bank of the postdating describing the check with reasonable certainty . [ ... ] If a bank charges against the account of a customer a check before the date stated in the notice of postdating , the bank is liable for damages for the loss resulting from its act . The loss may include damages for dishonor of subsequent items under <URL> .
It 's easy for me to look at an IRA , no deposits or withdrawal in a year , and compare the return to some index . Once you start adding transactions , not so easy . Here 's a method that answers your goal as closely as I can offer : SPY goes back to 1993 . It 's the most quoted EFT that replicates the S&amp;P 500 , and you specifically asked to compare how the investment would have gone if you were in such a fund . This is an important distinction , as I do n't have to adjust for its .09 % expense , as you would have been subject to it in this fund . Simply go to <URL> , and start with the historical prices . Easy to do this on a spreadsheet . I 'll assume you can find all your purchases inc dates &amp; dollars invested . Look these up and treat those dollars as purchases of SPY . Once the list is done , go back and look up the dividends , issues quarterly , and on the dividend date , add the shares it would purchase based on that day 's price . Of course , any withdrawals get accounted for the same way , take out the number of SPY shares it would have bought . Remember to include the commission on SPY , whatever your broker charges . If I 've missed something , I 'm sure we 'll see someone point that out , I 'd be happy to edit that in , to make this wiki-worthy . Edit - due to the nature of comments and the inability to edit , I 'm adding this here . Perhaps I 'm reading the question too pedantically , perhaps not . I 'm reading it as " if instead of doing whatever I did , I invested in an S&amp;P index fund , how would I have performed ? " To measure one 's return against a benchmark , the mechanics of the benchmarks calculation are not needed . In a comment I offer an example - if there were an ETF based on some type of black-box investing for which the investments were not disclosed at all , only day 's end pricing , my answer above still applies exactly . The validity of such comparisons is a different question , but the fact that the formulation of the EFT does n't come into play remains . In my comment below which I removed I hypothesized an ETF name , not intending it to come off as sarcastic . For the record , if one wishes to start JoesETF , I 'm ok with it .
If you 're referring to investment hedging , then you should diversify into things that would profit if expected event hit . For example alternative energy sources would benefit greatly from increased evidence of global warming , or the onset of peak oil . Preparing for calamities that would render the stock market inaccessible , the answer is quite different . Simply own more of things that people would want than you need . A list of possibilities would include : Non perishable food ( canned , dried , or otherwise ) Weapons and ammunition Medical supplies Hand tools Precious metals are also a way to secure value outside the financial markets , but would not be readily sellable until the immediate calamity had passed . All this should be balanced on an honest evaluation of the risks , including the risk of nothing happening . I 've heard of people not saving for retirement because they do n't expect the financial markets to be available then , but that 's not a risk I 'm willing to take .
If your question is truly just What is good growth ? Is there a target return that 's accepted as good ? I assumed 8 % ( plus transaction fees ) . Then I 'd have to point out that the <URL> since 1900 . You can buy an S&amp;P ETF for .05 % / yr expense . If your goal is to lag the S&amp;P by 1.7 % / yr over the long term , you can use a 85/15 mix of S&amp;P and cash , sleep well at night , and avoid wasting any time picking stocks .
From an article <URL> it would seem that the IRA offers less protection than the 401 ( k ) . This is consistent with other articles I 've read . You do n't ask about divorce . In a divorce , the 401 ( k ) is fair game and it 's one of the times such accounts can be transferred to another individual with no tax consequence . This is through the process know as QDRO ( Qualified domestic relations order ) in which the 401 ( k ) is split to give a portion to the spouse .
Generally there 's no ultimate protection against charge backs . Some methods are easier to charge back and some harder , and there 's always the resort of going to courts . The hardest to contest is , of course , a cash payment or wire transfer . You need to remember that imposing unnecessary/unreasonable difficulties on your customers will drive business away . I can buy diamonds in the nearest mall with my credit card - why would I buy from you if you want cash , BTC , or any other shady way to pay ? I 'm pretty sure that whatever that is you 're selling , anyone can buy elsewhere as well .
See <URL> from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) is a loan available to seniors , and is used to release the home equity in the property as one lump sum or multiple payments . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan is deferred until the owner dies , the home is sold , or the owner leaves ( e.g. , into aged care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner makes a monthly amortized payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increases within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 years ) the mortgage has been paid in full and the property is released from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner makes no payments and all interest is added to the lien on the property . If the owner receives monthly payments , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increases each month .
Look at it this way - a 10 year zero coupon bond has a duration of 10 years . But a year later , its duration is 9 years , as that 's the time left . For bonds with a coupon , the duration changes both as time passes and as the coupons are paid out . As far as the rest of the question goes , I think you may be misusing the concept , it 's more about sensitivity to interest rate changes than about recouping your investment .
If the company shares are not restricted , you could simply hedge yourself by selling them . Otherwise , an easy ( but maybe not optimal ) approach could be purchasing Proshares <URL> or <URL> ETFs , assuming that the US and Canadian industries are correlated . <URL> may work as a Canada-focused hedge , but not sure it is liquid enough .
end question
start question
Do currencies that are invested on belong to real assets or financial assets ?
Currencies are a financial asset . Real assets must have a productive capacity . That is , they must be able to produce a good or service . Currencies , in contrast , are actually liabilities of the issuing government . In the case of the US Dollar , each paper bill is marked as a " <URL> " which makes it clear that Legally , they are liabilities of the Federal Reserve Banks and obligations of the United States government .
The biggest thing , given that you already claim your wife-to-be as a dependent , is that the tax tables you will use will change . If you work and your wife-to-be does not , then by switching from " single " to " married " you will be taxed at the lowest possible rate , in addition to still being able to claim your wife and son as dependents . For example , say your yearly taxable income is $ 50k . Filing " Single " for the 2011TY with no credits , you would owe $ 8,631 in taxes . Filing " Head of Household " ( as you should do as a single parent ) and all other things equal , you 'd owe $ 7,274 . Filing as " Married Filing Jointly " ( which is what you should do for a one-income household ) , you 'd only owe $ 6,654 . Something to be aware of : As of 2011 , there is very little " marriage penalty " for two roughly equal earners ( worst I can find is still within $ 10 compared to filing single , almost literally a rounding error ) , and thus there is a pretty large " marriage advantage " for disparate incomes ( including single-income households ) , as shown above . If the Bush-era tax cuts expire on those making less than $ 250k/yr and taxes return to 2001 levels , starting in the 2013TY you 'll end up paying about what you do now as a single earner ( so no " marriage advantage " ) , and in addition if your spouse worked and made about the same as you , you 'd see a hefty " marriage penalty " whether you filed jointly or separately . This is a big chunk of the looming " Taxmageddon " that Republicans are screaming about ( without doing much other than blaming Obama , when he ca n't even do anything without Congress making up its damn mind ) . Another one that would impact the Average Joe/Jane is the expiration of the current AMT threshold increase , meaning if your taxable income from the normal method of computation is over $ 48k , you will owe the AMT ( basically paying a flat 26 % on income without your standard deduction or personal exemptions ) . The last chunk is the payroll tax cut given to employers , which you do n't see on your paycheck per se but can definitely affect your ability to get and stay hired , as your employer will consider that into the cost of hiring you or keeping you . BTW , if you have been the primary wage earner for yourself , your wife and your son for a significant time ( years ) and have not been filing as HoH , I would be filling out amendments ( 1040X ) for every year in which you could have claimed HoH status ; as I showed above , the IRS could owe you a big chunk of change for every year you were HoH and did n't file that way . Other than that , other big financial changes are the combination of credit histories ; your credit history will reflect on your spouse and vice versa . Now , it 's possible to get around that in the first few years . My wife and I were able to buy a house based on my credit score alone by putting all the paperwork in my name , without listing my wife as " co-owner " . My wife , being my wife , still has legal joint ownership of it , but we did n't have to figure her history into a combined credit score ( the flip side being we did n't get to count her income , so our pre-approval amount was based on what I could afford to pay , which was in hindsight a very good thing as we ended up pregnant 4 months later and she no longer works ) . But , after a few years of combined financial transactions , most of that goes away ; you 'll be joint accountholders on most of your deposit/investment accounts and lines of credit , etc. . The last big one is that she , and not your son or your parents , will become your next of kin . Your son ( probably a minor ) is too young to make financial or legal decisions , but as of right now before you marry your girlfriend , your son will inherit your estate , and it will likely be placed in trust to your parents . From the moment the marriage license is certified by the officiator ( priest , pastor , JP ) , your wife will become your next of kin and , barring a last will and/or advance directive to the contrary , will have final say over your care and/or control over your estate should you be incapacitated or killed . Depending on your relationship with each other , not a whole lot else will change . I found that with my wife not working after she became pregnant with our new daughter , she became the de facto accountant for our finances simply because she has the time to do it . With most of our bills set up to be paid automatically ( initiated by us via " bill pay " , not on auto-debit ) , it 's relatively easy to track , and if she were n't there it would be a five-minute exercise on my part each payday to plan for the next four weeks ' worth of bills and savings .
Have a look over the <URL> ? It 's worth also mentioning they have <URL> : Closing costs ( upfront fee ) : up to 3.0 % of invested capital ( according to the cooperation with the local commercial partner / for values greater than $ 1.000.000 up to 2.0 % ) Annual Administration ( management fee ) : 1.0 % of the value " effectively " invested from the managed resources . Performance fee ( success fee ) : 20 % of annual net profits generated in accordance with the watermark principle . They 're going to have to get extraordinarily good returns to overcome that dead weight . Maybe they will , <URL> . If your requirement is just for an " offshore online investment " then there are certainly cheaper and arguably safer options . Open a brokerage account in a country of your choice , and buy a local-total-stockmarket ETF , gold , or bonds . Or see one of the several <URL> about opening a foreign bank account .
From <URL> : A hard money loan is a specific type of asset-based loan financing through which a borrower receives funds secured by the value of a parcel of real estate . Hard money loans are typically issued at much higher interest rates than conventional commercial or residential property loans and are almost never issued by a commercial bank or other deposit institution . Hard money is similar to a bridge loan , which usually has similar criteria for lending as well as cost to the borrowers . The primary difference is that a bridge loan often refers to a commercial property or investment property that may be in transition and does not yet qualify for traditional financing , whereas hard money often refers to not only an asset-based loan with a high interest rate , but possibly a distressed financial situation , such as arrears on the existing mortgage , or where bankruptcy and foreclosure proceedings are occurring . This implies to me that these loans are only against real estate . Presumably , because it does n't move and ca n't be simply taken away , as in the case where you have say , a high value diamond or painting .
When you start preparing your 2016 tax return in early 2017 and realize that you are ineligible to contribute to a Roth IRA , you have the options of withdrawing your contribution as well as any earnings from that contribution from the Roth IRA . The earnings will count as income for 2017 since you will be making the withdrawal in 2017 . The original contribution , of course , continues to count as income for 2016 . recharacterizing your contribution as a contribution to your Traditional IRA . You need to contact your IRA custodian and tell them about it so that they can change the status of your account from Roth to Traditional IRA . Use the word recharacterization so that they will know exactly what you are talking about . If your income is very high , you might not be able to deduct the Traditional IRA contribution ( wholly , or in part ) on your 2016 tax return either , and if you are in that high-earner category , you should file Form 8606 with your tax return to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution to your Traditional IRA . In later years , when you start taking distributions from your Traditional IRA , that nondeductible contribution will not be taxed upon withdrawal . If you do not file Form 8606 , you will owe taxes on that amount when it is withdrawn . doing nothing in which case you will get whacked with all kinds of penalties Note : if you recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then , depending on your Traditional IRA accounts , it might be advantageous to do a " back-door Roth IRA conversion " . There are multiple answers on this site that will tell you all about back-door Roth IRA conversion .
Company X located outside a military base offer discounts to military as a form of marketing . They want to encourage a group of potential customers to use their store/service . In some cases they are competing with subsidized store on the base . In other cases their only competition is other stores outside the base . The smart ones also understand the pay structure of military pay to make it easier for enlisted to stretch their money for the entire month . The government does n't offer compensation to the business near bases . The businesses see their offer and discount as advertising expenses , and are figured into the prices they have to charge all customers . You will also see these types of discounts offered by some businesses in college towns . They are competing with the services on the campus and with other off-campus businesses . Some also allow the use of campus dollars to make it easier for the student to spend money .
I know in the UK at least , 99 % of the time even legitimate collectors do n't work directly for the charity . They work for independent for-profit companies . The companies collect a large comission ( around # 50 - # 70 ) for every direct debit signup . The guy that knocks on your door will see very little of it . Have a look at this : <URL> The bags you get through your door for clothing donations are run on a similar basis - the clothes and profit go to a private company , which makes a donation to the charity out of their profits . Sometimes as little as 0.1 % of your donation will go the charity . Always go direct to your chosen charity .
The vast majority of retail Forex brokers are market makers , rather than ECNs . With that said , the one that fits your description mostly closely is Interactive Brokers , is US-based , and well-respected . They have a good amount of exoitcs available . Many ECNs do n't carry these because of the mere fact that they make money on transactions , versus market makers who make money on transactions and even more on your losses . So , if the business model is to make money only on transactions , and they are as rarely traded as exotics are , there 's no money to be made .
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
The United States prepares a medical care cost index , which can be found at <URL> The following series are valid : CUSR0000SAM ( seasonally adjusted monthly ) , CUUR0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted monthly ) , and CUUS0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted semiannually ) I ca n't find a financial product which tracks this ( or another ) medical care cost index specifically , although many products are marketed to track the performance of the health care industry as a whole . Products in the latter category can track indexes such as the MSCI US Investable Market Health Care Index or the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index . The industry 's indexes ' behavior may show poor correlation with a medical care costs index 's behavior , however . For example , if medical care costs are stagnant , and if population increases , then one could expect ( all other factors being equal ) that the healthcare industry would be better off , while the costs index would be flat .
For various reasons , real estate prices exhibit far more memory than stock prices . The primary reason for this is that real estate is much less liquid . Transaction costs for stock trading are on the order of 10 basis points ( 0.1 % ) , whereas a real estate transaction will typically have total costs ( including title , lawyers , brokers , engineers , etc. ) of around 5 % of the amount of the transaction . A stock transaction can be executed in milliseconds , whereas real estate transactions typically take months . Thus today 's behavior is a much better indicator of future price behavior for real estate than for stocks .
You will be hit every time , once every buy order and once every sell order . Commissions to the broker are paid every time they do something for you . This is true regardless if it is a security in which you are already invested . It is true regardless if you make or lose money . It is just as sure as death and taxes .
Adult student retirement accounts do not affect financial aid for the FAFSA . From the <URL> about what is included in student-owned investments ( line 42 ) . Investments do not include the home you live in , the value of life insurance , retirement plans ( 401 [ k ] plans , pension funds , annuities , non-education IRAs , Keogh plans , etc. ) or cash , savings and checking accounts already reported in questions 41 and 89 . Investments also do not include UGMA and UTMA accounts for which you are the custodian , but not the owner However , some schools use their own methodology to determine financial aid and some schools do take retirement accounts into consideration . <URL> says Retirement assets ( 401K , 403B , IRA , Roth IRA , and any other type of retirement account ) are treated somewhat differently from other assets . We ask that you report the total current value of any retirement assets regardless of their type . We do , however , protect 50 % of the value of these assets in recognition of the fact that their liquidation may incur an additional tax burden and/or penalties for early withdrawal of these funds . More importantly , we strongly encourage our students to save for retirement and believe that this type of asset protection is in keeping with that philosophy .
Stock prices are indeed proportional to supply and demand . The greater the demand for a stock , the greater the price . If they are , would this mean that stock prices completely depend on HOW the public FEELS/THINKS about the stock instead of what it is actually worth ? This is a question people have argued for decades . Literature in behavioral finance suggests that investors are not rational and thus markets are subject to wild fluctuation based on investor sentiment . The efficient market theory ( EMT ) argues that the stock market is efficient and that a stock 's price is an accurate reflection of its underlying or intrinsic value . This philosophy took birth with Harry Markovitz 's efficient frontier , and Eugene Fama is generally seen as the champion of EMT in the 1960 's and onward . Most investors today would agree that the markets are not perfectly efficient , and that a stock 's price does not always reflect its value . The renowned professor Benjamin Graham once wrote : In the short run , the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a weighing machine . This suggests that prices in the short term are mainly influenced by how people feel about the stock , while in the long run the price reflects what it 's actually worth . For example , people are really big fans of tech stocks right now , which suggests why LinkedIn ( stock : LNKD ) has such a high share price despite its modest earnings ( relative to valuation ) . People feel really good about it , and the price might sustain if LinkedIn becomes more and more profitable , but it 's also possible that their results wo n't be absolutely stellar , so the stock price will fall until it reflects the company 's fundamentals .
Gold and silver are for after the crisis , not during . Gold and silver are far more likely to be able to be exchanged for things you need , since they are rare , easily divided , etc. . Getting land away from where the crap is happening is also good , but it 's more than that . Say you have land somewhere . How will the locals view you if you move there to hunker down only when things go bad ? They wo n't really trust you , and you 'll inherit a new set of problems . Building relationships in an off-the-beaten-path area requires a time investment . Investing in lifestyle in general is good . Lifestyle is n't just toys , but it 's privacy , peace of mind , relationships with people with whom you can barter skills , as well as the skills you might think you 'd need to do more than just get by in whatever scenario you envision . For the immediate crisis , you 'd better have the things you 'll need for a few months . Stores probably wo n't be supplied on any regular basis , and the shelves will be bare . Trying to use gold or silver during the crisis just makes you a target for theft . With regard to food , it 's best to get acclimated to a diet of what you 'd have on hand . If you get freeze-dried food , eat it now , so that it 's not a shock to your system when you have to eat it . ( Can you tell I 've been thinking about this ? :) )
Options granted by an employer to an employee are generally different that the standardized options that are traded on public stock option exchanges . They may or may not have somewhat comparable terms , but generally the terms are fairly different . As a holder of an expiring employee option , you can only choose to exercise it by paying the specified price and receiving the shares , or not . It is common that the exercise system will allow you to exercise all the shares and simultaneously sell enough of the acquired shares to cover the option cost of all the shares , thus leaving you owning some of the stock without having to spend any cash . You will owe taxes on the gain on exercise , regardless of what you do with the stock . If you want to buy publicly-traded options , you should consider that completely separately from your employer options other than thinking about how much exposure you have to your company situation . It is very common for employees to be imprudently overexposed to their company 's stock ( through direct ownership or options ) .
It depends on the contract terms of your specific GIC or term deposit . Some GICs and deposits are fixed rate , which offer a guaranteed interest rate , and some are floating rate or interest-linked , where the interest rate varies according to some benchmark that periodically changes , such as the bank 's prime rate . Each of fixed or floating could be better than the other under circumstances which become evident in hindsight . If you buy a fixed rate GIC , you are taking a risk locking up your money at that rate . If rates were to rise to higher than your fixed rate , you would n't be able to take advantage of the higher rate until your term is up , unless your GIC is redeemable . If you buy a floating rate GIC , you are taking the risk that your money might have been better invested at a higher fixed rate , should floating rates remain lower over the investment 's term , unless your GIC is redeemable . So , you should also understand whether your GIC is locked in for the entire term , or whether it may be redeemable , and under what conditions , and whether any penalties may apply if you do redeem early . Typically , non-redeemable GICs offer higher interest rates than redeemable GICs .
Currencies are a financial asset . Real assets must have a productive capacity . That is , they must be able to produce a good or service . Currencies , in contrast , are actually liabilities of the issuing government . In the case of the US Dollar , each paper bill is marked as a " <URL> " which makes it clear that Legally , they are liabilities of the Federal Reserve Banks and obligations of the United States government .
A lot of investors prefer to start jumping into tools and figuring out from there , but I 've always said that you should learn the theory before you go around applying it , so you can understand its shortcomings . A great starting point is Investopedia 's <URL> . There you can read about the " idea " of technical analysis , how it compares to other strategies , what some of the big ideas are , and quite a bit about various chart patterns ( cup and handle , flags , pennants , triangles , head &amp; shoulders , etc ) . You 'll also cover ideas like moving averages and trendlines . After that , <URL> by Fred McAllen should be your next stop . The material in the book overlaps with what you 've read on Investopedia , but McAllen 's book is great for learning from examples and seeing the concepts applied in action . The book is for new comers and does a good job explaining how to utilize all these charts and patterns , and after finishing it , you should be ready to invest on your own . If you make it this far , feel free to jump into Fidelity 's tools now and start applying what you 've learned . You always want to make the connection between theory and practice , so start figuring out how you can use your new knowledge to generate good returns . Eventually , you should read the excellent reference text <URL> by John Murphy . This book is like a toolbox - Murphy covers almost all the major techniques of technical analysts and helps you intuitively understand the reasoning behind them . I 'd like to quote a part of a review here to show my point : What I like about Mr. Murphy is his way of showing and proving a point . Let me digress here to show you what I mean : Say you had a daughter and wanted to show her how to figure out the area of an Isosceles triangle . Well , you could tell her to memorize that it is base * height/2 . Or if you really wanted her to learn it thoroughly you can show her how to draw a parallel line to the height , then join the ends to make a nice rectangle . Then to compute the area of a rectangle just multiply the two sides , one being the height , the other being half the base . She will then " derive " this and " understand " how they got the formula . You see , then she can compute the area under a hexagon or a tetrahedron or any complex object . Well , Mr. Murphy will show us the same way and " derive " for us concepts such as how a resistance line later becomes a support line ! The reson for this is so amusing that after one reads about it we just go " wow ... " " Now I understand why this occurs " . Murphy 's book is not about strategy or which tools to use . He takes an objective approach to describing the basics about various tools and techniques , and leaves it up to the reader to decide which tools to apply and when . That 's why it 's 576 pages and a great reference whenever you 're working . If you make it through and understand Murphy , then you 'll be golden . Again , understand the theory first , but make sure to see how it 's applied as well - otherwise you 're just reading without any practical knowledge . To quote Richard Feynman : It does n't matter how beautiful your theory is , it does n't matter how smart you are . If it does n't agree with experiment , it 's wrong . Personally , I think technical analysis is all BS and a waste of time , and most of the top investors would agree , but at the end of the day , ignore everyone and stick to what works for you . Best of luck !
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
end question
start question
How do I know my Citi credit card account number , for setting up a Virtual Account Number ?
Thanks for joining , and thanks for your question ! From what I can tell , yes , the site you originally linked to ( which I removed ) appears to be in the United States and therefore likely intended for U.S. cardholders only . Your profile indicates you are in the U.K. Most banks and credit card companies do maintain separate systems per country , for legal reasons . Anyway , for your own security I suggest you contact your card issuer 's support telephone number and request the correct U.K. cardholder web site address from them directly . In general , you do n't want to be guessing or searching for the web site address for your credit card company or bank 's online self-service application . There are often " impostor " web sites out there that just want your credit card number ! Instead , you should obtain the web site addresses for your financial services from trusted sources only ; i.e. direct from your bank or card issuer , such as on your printed statement , or through their help line , or linked-to from their known-good home page . Finally , I do believe that your credit card number and account number are one and the same thing .
This is a state by state thing , and I 'm cheating because I know you are in New York State : You need a <URL> . You do n't have to incorporate ( LLC , etc ) for this , but it is not your SSN . You need to get a <URL> for the state . When you purchase items for resale in NY State , you can give them a <URL> to prove you are tax-exempt . When you sell your items , you need to charge sales tax to residents of NY . ( This is wildly complicated because the rates change for EVERY county , and sometimes even sub counties , in NY - use their <URL> ) .
Yes , you will need to deposit the funds into your HSA , then withdraw them to reimburse yourself for the expenses . The tax deduction comes when you contribute ( deposit ) to your HSA . If you do not deposit the money there , you will not be able to claim the deduction . Your HSA provider reports the amount of your contributions to the IRS , so the amount you say you contribute to your HSA on your tax return has to match what your HSA provider reports . When you deposit the money to your HSA , you need to explicitly tell your provider that the contribution is for tax year 2014 . The reason is that you want to make sure that they report the amount of your 2014 contributions to the IRS correctly . After you 've deposited the amount into your HSA , you can withdraw it to reimburse yourself for an eligible medical expense . In order to be eligible , it needs to be an expense that was incurred while you had the HSA in place . If you had your HSA account in place before you paid the expense , no problem . But if you set up the HSA account after you paid for the expense , you might be out of luck . The distribution ( withdrawal ) will be a part of tax year 2015 , and you 'll see this amount included as part of the gross distributions on your 1099-SA form next year . When I first set up my HSA , I did n't have any extra money to fund the HSA , so I handled it just like you are talking about . I would wait until I had a medical bill , then deposit the amount I needed into my HSA and withdraw it back out to pay the bill .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
A couple ideas : Use excel - it has an IRR ( internal rate of return ) that can handle a table of inputs as you describe , along with dates deposited to give you a precise number . Go simple - track total deposits over the year , assume half of that was present in January . So , for example , your account started the year with $ 10k , ended with $ 15k , but you deposited $ 4k over the year . It should be clear the return ( gain ) is $ 1k , right ? But it 's not 10 % , as you added during the year . I 'd divide $ 1k / $ 12k for an 8.3 % return . Not knowing how your deposits were structured , the true number lies between the 10 % and 6.7 % as extremes . You 'll find as you get older and have a higher balance , this fast method gaining accuracy , as your deposits are a tinier fraction of your account and likely spread out pretty smoothly over the year anyway .
Margin interest is deductible on Sch A . So my first warning is that if you do n't itemize , the deduction is lost . Assuming you already itemize , it adds to your itemized deductions . If your gains are short term , they are taxed at your regular rate , i.e. your marginal rate same as earned income . If your return is higher than the margin rate , you are in the black . If bounced off long term gains , the numbers change slightly , as the gain may be taxed 15 % , but your margin interest is offset 25 % , for example . My comment question was to try to understand the intent . A 10 % margin rate is certainly a deal killer . I have a 2.5 % equity line , and am not considering using it to buy stocks despite the 10 % long term gains in the market . In your case , a 20 % drop would cost you 40 % of your equity . Buying on margin is not recommended for most investors , let alone those just learning .
Enter the PAN number . If you do n't have one , get it by applying with Income Tax department India
In the 24 years I have been a homeowner , only the period of 1999 to 2006 saw big increases in home prices . For most of the rest of the time there were either small increases , no increases , or big drops as bubbles burst . Yet overall the direction of the value of the houses has been positive . There can be 5 year periods where every house goes up in value regardless of your location . There can be 5 year periods where every house loses value regardless of your location . The past is no guarantee of what will happen in the future . In fact the past can be vastly different from the future . A history of growth may mean that it will continue or it may mean nothing . You need to pick a house that meets your needs ( size , style , price , location to import things ) and hope for the best . Halfway though the last bubble people made good decisions , and saw the value continue to rise for several more years . When the bubble burst they were still in good shape for several more years . Until they need to sell . Then they realized they could n't sell when they wanted . They were still going to make money but it would take months to sell , not days . That is the biggest risk . That you ca n't sell when you want .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
However , I did this before and it is a city owned unattended machine . Someone could have placed a <URL> on the machine that captures your credit card information . The fact that the machine is unattended makes this a definite possibility . This could have been done since the last time you used it without the city or any users catching on . This could also occur at a gas station , which you mentioned you had visited in the last few weeks . If you used your card online , check the news or the company 's website to make sure the site was n't compromised . Also , talk to your bank about when the charges were made . The theft could have occurred shortly before that . However , it 's also conceivable that your information was stolen a while ago and only recently used . Have you used your credit card online from a public computer/wi-fi network or over an unencrypted connection ? If not , have you logged into other accounts that use the same account information or could possibly expose your credit card details if those accounts were comprised ? Some people store financial information in their email , so this is another avenue for your information to be compromised . If you receive financial statements or documents with other personal information on them in paper form , do you shred them thoroughly or burn them before disposing of them ? Regardless of how " swanky " your community might be , there are people who will look through trash to find such information . Arguably , a more upscale community would be more vulnerable to this because an identity thief knows there is more information available there . Otherwise , it can be very difficult to pinpoint exactly when/where your information was compromised . I know it 's not the answer you want to hear , but unfortunately , finding the exact time/location of the theft may be impossible .
Thanks for joining , and thanks for your question ! From what I can tell , yes , the site you originally linked to ( which I removed ) appears to be in the United States and therefore likely intended for U.S. cardholders only . Your profile indicates you are in the U.K. Most banks and credit card companies do maintain separate systems per country , for legal reasons . Anyway , for your own security I suggest you contact your card issuer 's support telephone number and request the correct U.K. cardholder web site address from them directly . In general , you do n't want to be guessing or searching for the web site address for your credit card company or bank 's online self-service application . There are often " impostor " web sites out there that just want your credit card number ! Instead , you should obtain the web site addresses for your financial services from trusted sources only ; i.e. direct from your bank or card issuer , such as on your printed statement , or through their help line , or linked-to from their known-good home page . Finally , I do believe that your credit card number and account number are one and the same thing .
You need to contact the institution that is holding your current account , have them sell your fund investment , and then close your account and send you a check for the balance . Then you can <URL> ( or call 800-319-4254 ) . You do n't need an account with an online broker unless you want to be able to invest in funds outside the Vanguard family . Fees will depend on the institution that you are currently using and the fund . With some funds you have to pay a " load " ( percentage of your assets , in the neighborhood of a couple of percent ) when you redeem shares . Your institution may charge you a fee for redeeming the fund ( anywhere from $ 0/free to maybe $ 40 or higher ) . Some institutions will charge a fee for closing the account . ( I 've seen anything from $ 0/free to $ 40 , but I have n't looked around in a while . ) As MrChrister points out in a comment below , this is not the best method for an IRA . In that case , you 'd want to make a transfer , and I 'd recommend calling both your current institution and Vanguard ( or wherever you end up transferring funds to ) for forms and instructions on how best to do it .
HSA accounts come with various rules intended to ensure that the pre-tax money you have opted to put into your HSA account is indeed used for appropriate purposes . Most employers do n't handle these accounts in-house but contract with a company or bank who offers to take care of the details and the necessary accounting : the money is simply sent to the bank , and it is the bank that is responsible for ensuring that the money is indeed used appropriately . Now , if you say that you want Wells Fargo ( to pick another bank as an example ) to handle your HSA account , the employer will likely need to have a contract with Wells Fargo too , and Wells Fargo will charge you fees to handle the account also . Whether you will be any happier with Wells Fargo 's fees for a one-off HSA account versus Chase 's fees where a ( smaller ) bulk rate might be charged is something that you should find out before approaching your employer with a request to have Wells Fargo handle your HSA account .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
If it 's just an ordinary credit card I 'd think he could merely dispute the charges , since he 's saying they ' created ' ( which I presume means applied for and received ) a card , it should not affect his accounts directly . And especially since application details may be bogus , he should be able to prove it was not him . Even if they got HIS credit card number , he should be able to dispute those charges that are not his , especially if they went to a different address , or were charged someplace ( like another city ) where he was not present at that time . OTOH , if they created a DEBIT card that was linked to his bank account somehow , well then , that could be a lot more difficult to recover from , but even then , if it 's not his signature that was used to apply for the card , or on any charges that had to be signed for etc , he should be able to dispute it and get the bank to put the money back in his account since it will be a case of forgery etc. . The big problem with ID theft is people tend to ruin your credit rating , and you end up having to fend off bill collectors etc. . The primary thing it costs you ( speaking from experience of having checks stolen and forged using a fake drivers license ) is the TIME and hassle of getting everything straightened out and put right . In my case it took a few hours at the credit union , and all the money was back , in a new account ( the old one having been closed ) when I left . Dealing with all the poor merchants that were taken , and with bill collectors on the other hand took months . but I never once in the process needed ' quick money ' from anyone . So the need for ' quick money ' seems a bit doubtful . I 'd want a lot more details of exactly why he needs money from you . Refer your friend to this <URL> and make sure he takes the steps listed , and especially pays attention to the parts about keeping notes of every single person he talks with , including name , date , time , and pertinent details of the conversation . If he has some idea HOW this happened ( as in a robbery ) then report it to the proper authorities , and insist on getting a case number . talking with bill collectors is the worst , just trying to get ahold of them when they send you letters ( and talk to a person , not a recorded number with instructions on how to pay them ) is sometimes nearly impossible ( google was my friend ) and a lot of times they did n't want to back off till I gave them the case number with the police , that somehow magically made it ' real ' to them and not just my telling them a story .
Some eligible expenses include : - Sunscreen ( SPF 30 and greater ) - Band Aids - Tylenol and Advil - Mileage driven for medical care ( at a rate of 24 cents/mile ) - Vision expenses ( glasses , contacts , contact solution , eye drops , etc ) - Chiropractor visits - Airborne - Anti-decongestants You should be able to go to a local drug store and see what items are eligible to be purchased through with your Flexible Spending Account ( ask at the counter ) . We also have a website that only sells FSA eligible items and ships directly to your home if you want to check out that option . Please let me know if you have any more Flexible Spending Account Questions or need more ideas .
end question
start question
What are the down sides of maxing out the 401k ?
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
Does the interest for investing take place after that year 's over with or ' monthly ' in a sense ? It depends on your account . Specifically , how often the interest compounds . Meaning , when the bank calculates and pays it ; then that paid interest becomes part of your principal and included in the next round of calculation , hence " compound " . Monthly is a common schedule . Yearly is rare , despite the fact that interest rates are given as annual percentages . The faster the interest compounds , the better . All else being equal , you will earn more interest by depositing earlier , as long as account interest is paid out with frequency other than once at the end of the year . You miss out on the intra-year payments by delaying your deposit . Over a long period of time , this will end up being a substantial difference .
I found <URL> at CNN Money , that lists 5 viable alternatives to Paypal , namely : Digital River 2checkout . com Alertpay TrialPay E-Junkie I would suggest looking for unbiased sources like CNN rather than searching for alternatives and happening upon the merchant 's sites themselves . Hope this helps !
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
To be clear , a 401K is a vehicle , you make investments WITHIN it , if you choose poorly such as say putting all your money into company stock when working for the next Enron , you can still get hurt badly . So it is important to have diversity and an appropriate risk level based on your age , tolerance for risk , etc. . That said , as vehicles go it is outstanding , and the ' always max your 401K ' is very very common advice for a large number of investing professionals , CFA 's , pundits , etc. . That said there are a few priorities to consider here . First priority , if there is some level of company matching , grab that , it 's hard to beat that kind of ' return ' in almost any other case . Second , since you never want to tap into a 401K ( if you can at all avoid it ) before you are ready to retire , you should first be sure you have a good 'em ergency fund ' set aside in the event you lose your job , or some other major catastrophy happens . Many recommend setting aside at least 6 months of basic living expenses . Third , if you have any high interest debt ( like credit card debt ) pay that stuff down as fast as you can . You 'll save a ton of interest ( it 's pretty much the same as investing the money you use to pay it down , and getting a return equal to the interest rate you are paying , with zero risk . . ca n't be beat . You 'll also end up with a lot better cash flow , and the ability to start saving first and spending out of savings , so you earn interest instead of paying it . Once you have those things out of the way , then it is time to think about fully funding the 401K . and keep in mind , since you do n't pay taxes on it , the ' felt effect ' to you pocket is about 80 % or even less , of what goes into the account , so it 's not as painful as you might think , and the hit to your take home may be less than you 'd expect . Contributing as much as you can , as early as you can also lets you benefit from the effect of compounding , and has a far larger affect on the balance than money put into the account closer to retirement . So if you can afford to max it out , I surely would advise you to do so .
How " different " were these signatures ? The purpose of a signature is to provide evidence that you authorized or agreed to something . If the handwriting is recognizably the same , that 's what matters most . In practice any signature that you claim is yours is yours ; any signature that you claim was forged must be proven to be forged , and any signature that is n't convincing when compared to your past signatures may be refused or bounced back to you for confirmation . If the style of your signature has changed completely , you should contact banks and put a copy of the new signature on file , as well as making sure it 's the one shown on id and credit cards and so on ... just as you would if you had changed your name . If it 's just a matter of leaving out your middle name or no longer writing " junior " , do n't worry about it until/unless someone objects . It is better if your signature is closer to identical every time ; that actually matters more than whether it 's readable . But everyone is aware that minor variationS will occur . If that 's all you 're asking about , relax .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
Here 's a start at a high level : Actual ownership . Pros : You actually take delivery and possess the item . Cons : Transaction costs are higher , there may not be a liquid market , you need cash and you need to secure the stuff somewhere . Ownership through a trust , Mutual Fund or ETF . ( Example : GLD , CEF ) Pros : You do n't need to take delivery , transaction costs are lower , you can buy on margin . Cons : It is a " paper " product , many of these funds are ETNs , which carry credit risks , and you are subject to risk of the brokerage or trust/ETF operator failing or otherwise not meeting obligations . Indirect exposure via equities . ( ie . Buy an oil/gold company ) Pros : You get exposure to equity price changes without owning the commodity . You yield a premium from well-managed companies , and often get dividends . Cons : Conversely , you can lose money due to a companies management being poor , irrespective of commodity prices . ( ie . BP ) You can offset that risk with ETFs or mutual funds ( ie . VMW ) Futures and options . Pros : You can make alot of money and use leverage to maximize your investment . Cons : You are forced to look at the commodity 's price over relatively short periods of time . You can easily lose everything and more . These markets are volatile . I have a few friends who have made a killing on GLD , and write options to make money off of the investment without incurring the capital gains penalties for selling . That 's a little out of my comfort zone though .
" As-is " means that no matter what the inspector finds the seller will not delay closing , repair , or provide money/discount to repair . If you want to go this route then yes you need a complete inspection by a trained and certified home inspector . No matter what they find , big or small , you will then have the opportunity to walk away . If they find small things , then it is up to you . If they find any big things or open ended things then you will likely walk away . Do n't let the seller , their agent , or your agent try and talk you out of the inspection . Despite the claim as " as-is " many jurisdiction also require the seller to disclose all known material defect as a part of the listing and other related documents . So if they spent $ 5,000 covering up the evidence of the leak that will cost $ 20,000 they have to tell you . If it is discovered soon after you move in , you still may be able to take them to court . But you will need that inspection report to show that you tried to find all the defects . Why does the seller go the " as-is " route ? Some have something to hide . Others just want to speed the transaction along . If the defects are small , and you are able to handle the repairs yourself , then settlement can proceeded quickly . But if you insist on a new roof , then they have to schedule it and it can delay thing for weeks . Many times the seller is offering the house at a discount already and does n't want to reduce the money even further .
ETFs are traded as stocks , and you can buy any amount . The minimum amount limitation is for initial purchases from SPDR itself , which is not what you 're going to do . The direct purchase from SPDR is for financial institutions that buy ETFs in chunks of 100000 units and then sell them on secondary market , which is where you 're buying .
After a bit of rooting around the HMRC sites , I found <URL> which says this : One key difference is that digitised products are classed as electronically-supplied services for VAT and customs duties . These services are : downloaded software downloaded images , text or information electronic publications downloaded music , films and games electronic auctions supply of websites or web-hosting services For VAT purposes , the place of supply of these services is the country in which the customer lives . If you supply electronic services to a business customer in another European Union ( EU ) country , the customer accounts for any VAT due in that country . You should not charge UK VAT . If you supply electronic services to a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country , you have to account for UK VAT . If you supply electronic services to anyone in a country outside the EU , you do n't pay any VAT . If , as a UK business , you buy electronic services from a company outside the UK , you have to account for VAT . If I read this correctly , I as the supplier of the website need to account for VAT only if the sponsor is a consumer , charity or government body in another EU country . It is not covered in this site , but I assume I must also account for VAT for a customer based in the UK . So in answer to the original question , a customer from Canada ( which is currently outside the EU ) would account for the VAT themselves , and I would simply charge the gross amount .
Pros Being able to buy a house with less than 10 % down . Specifically , as little as 3.5 % . Maximum debt-to-income allowed in 41 % , which may or may not be better than what you can get at a bank . Cons Paying Mortgage insurance out the wazoo . Nobody thinks about it this way , but FHA loans are actually quite expensive because of this . You 'll pay two Mortgage insurances : 1 % one time fee at closing 1.15 % per year ongoing Plus , it 's harder to get out of down the road that regular PMI . With regular PMI , you can stop paying it when your loan to value drops below 80 % . With FHA , you a ) must have been paying for at least 5 years , and b ) it 's 78 % loan to value where " value " is the initial appraised value at closing , NOT the current value . In other words , the equity you get from your home rising in value does not count , whereas it does with regular bank PMI . I 've calculated that if you do n't make extra payments , you 'll be paying PMI for about 14 years . Note that for all practical purposes , you 'd have to get a interest rate of less than 4.85 % for your effective interest rate ( interest + pmi ) to drop below 6 % . That 's not counting the effect of that additional 1 % up front .
A lot of Americans have used Swiss bank accounts to avoid paying taxes . However recently several large Swiss banks have started disclosing the details on some of their customers to the IRS . There is n't much security in Swiss banking at this point in time .
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
Writing off an asset means saying that you assume its value is zero or close to that . For bookkeeping purposes , you 're saying you do n't think you 'll ever get that money back , directly or indirectly . The company collapsed , the project fizzled out , the crop failed ... Writing down an asset means reducing your estimate of its value , but not to zero . You think there is at least some chance the investment will pay off , or at least will have enough assets / value to cover part of what you paid for it , and this number is your current best guess of what it 's actually worth so that can be reported accurately as part of your own net worth . Same idea , just different degrees .
Despite a fair number of views , no one besides @mbhunter answered , so I 'll gather the findings of my own research here . Hopefully , this will help others in similar situations . If you spot any errors , please let me know ! Exercising your options and taxes : If the strike price for your stock is S and the current fair market value is F , then the difference ( F - S ) is subject to taxes , even if you do n't actually sell the stock and realize that profit . Non-qualified stock options : are subject to income taxes , which roughly means you take the " profit " from ( 1 ) and add it to your income , as if it was part of your salary . This means it gets taxed at whatever tax bracket your salary + profit end up in , usually in the 10-35 % range . ISO stock options : are not subject to income taxes , but they do get counted when calculating AMT . Although most people are n't typically subject to AMT , if you make enough profit from ( 1 ) , you may be . Not sure what the rate is for AMT , but seems to be around 25 % . AMT calculation : fill out form 6251 or use software such as TurboTax ( it takes just a couple minutes using the latter ) . Selling your options : if you sell your options at price P , the difference between ( P - F ) also has tax implications . If ( P - F ) is negative - that is , you lost money - you can write it off . I believe the maximum write off is $ 3k per year . If ( P-F ) is positive - that is , you made a profit - it gets taxed . Short term capital gains tax : if you sell your options less than one year after exercising , the profit is subject to short term capital gains tax . Similar to ( 2 ) , this roughly means the profit is tacked onto your income as if it was part of your salary and depending on what bracket you end up in , gets taxed at 10-35 % . Long term capital gains tax : if you sell your options more than one year after exercising ( and two years after the options were granted ) , the profits are subject to long term capital gains tax , which is typically 15 % . Exercising options early : some companies allow you to exercise all your options early - that is , before they actually vest ( though you still wo n't be able to actually sell them until they vest ) . Advantages of exercising options early : as soon as you exercise , the " clock starts ticking " for when you get into long term capital gains territory and consequently , pay far less taxes when you sell your options . Moreover , if the fair market value is increasing , exercising sooner minimizes ( F - S ) and consequently , minimizes the " profit " that gets taxed at the relatively high rates of income/AMT taxes as described in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Exercising when F == S and waiting at least one year to sell your options keeps taxes to an absolute minimum . Disadvantages of exercising options early : to exercise your options , you must pay ( S * N ) + ( F - S ) ( N ) ( income tax or AMT rate ) where S = strike price , F = fair market value , N = number of shares . This may be a lot of money up front , especially given that you might not actually be able to sell these options for a long time . Moreover , by the time you can sell , it 's possible that the stock tanks - or perhaps the company does n't go public in the first place - at which point you 're out a lot of money .
Ask your company just to make sure . My experience has been that it is based on the date of the check , not the end of the pay period or the date the 401K deposit was made . To verify this look at the stub for the paychecks at the end of 2012 and start of the new year , and compare them to your W2 . The first check for 2013 will restart all your year-to-date totals .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
Many branches of maths study the market , your question would need a lenghty answer . The mathematical problem with the behaviour of the stock markets is that their movements react to human emotions . Fear and greed as you probably knows . So you need to find a mathematical branch specialised on irregular and chaotic behaviour . There are practical researchs being done nowadays in financial institutions with program trading , you can check it out searching the web . The objective is always to make money , that is greed disguised . I would suggest you start by reading this article on <URL> .
end question
start question
Is Chase alone in restricting how much I can wire transfer , or do other banks also limit like this ?
This is a reasonable requirement which many banks probably have . The reason is that after you deposit a check , ACH or direct deposit - they may be reversed after a couple of days ( check bounced , payment canceled , etc ) . If you wire the money out , and then the check by which you got the money gets bounced - the bank is left hanging because money wired out is very hard to return . Wire transfers are generally irreversible unless its a mistake in the wire . After 10 days , these transactions can not be reversed and the money is bound to remain on the account , so you can wire it out . By the way , it also goes for cashier 's checks as well , I had a similar discussion with my banker ( do n't remember if it was WF or Chase ) when I needed one based on a ACH transfer from my savings account elsewhere . They gave me the check , but said that its because I proved that the transfer was from my own account .
Probably none . First , you need to itemize . But then , this deduction is subject to a 2 % floor , i.e it 's only deductible to the extent it exceeds 2 % of your AGI . If these fees were on the high side , some might have exceeded this floor . And in that case you can use the entire amount spent when you start the math . Update - David , I 'm sorry if my answer appeared curt . All expenses you paid in 2014 are part of the math when doing your return due 4/15/15 , even though the work was for older returns the tax guy worked on . The rest of my answer should be that you need to study where on Schedule A this flows to - There are a few things that add up for this category . It then gets grouped and only what exceeds 2 % of your AGI flows to the Schedule A numbers . For those already in the black via line 21 , the result is all cost flows to the deduction . Without that , there 's a good chance little to none will be helpful to you .
Do n't be afraid to shop around . Every couple of years when it 's time to renew my auto insurance I call a couple of places to see if I can get a better deal . It 's especially important to do this as you get older ( because your rates go down assuming you keep a clean driving record ) . Also as your life changes , e.g. if you get married , move , buy a home , get a new car , etc. . At 30 my rates dropped a lot . When I bought a home , I qualified for a discount by combining my home and auto insurance through the same carrier . My suggestion would be to call 3 insurance companies for quotes , all on the same day . You 'll need to be able to identify the car you 'll be insuring for the most accurate quote . Do you belong to any organizations that offer insurance discounts ? ( E.g. my college alumni association had a program with one of the larger carriers that had the best rates on auto + home that I could find . )
Life Insurance is valid anywhere in the world irrespective of where you stay or where you die . Medical insurance on the other hand is bound by geography . IE general medical policies issued in India are valid only within India for treatment . So you can develop the condition anywhere , but you need to be treated in India in order to get cover under the policy . This is because the premium charged is less as the medical expenses in India are less say compared to US or Europe . Hence if you are travelling outside India you need to take a seperate Overseas Travel Insurance that covers ; - Medical Cover - Loss of Luggage due to Transit - Delayed flights etc So the policy is in effect from the time you cross Indian Immegration . It is irrespective of the mode of travel . I do not think in India we have a regular Travel Insurance for domestic travel .
Yes , they are deductible . The treatment is a little weird because of the self-employed nature . Profit Sharing contributions made to employees are deductible at the Employer level and are reported on line 19 of the Schedule C. However , contributions made by the employer on behalf of the self-employed individual are reported on the individual 's 1040 ( line 28 ) , which reduces the individual 's adjusted gross income . Disclosure : I am not a CPA . Consult your CPA or Tax Attorney . Sources : <URL> - Page 8
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 59 1/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
I have an ESPP with E * Trade ; you can transfer stock like that via a physical ( paper ) asset-transfer form . Look for one of those , and if you ca n't find it , call your brokerage ( or email / whatever ) . You own the shares , so you can generally do what you want with them . Just be very careful about recording all the purchase and transfer information so that you can deal properly with the taxes .
Both the charges are reasonable . The CA charges vary from CA to CA , you can shop around , plus if you use a CA who is also being retained for your overall taxes , it should be lower . Normal SWIFT wires do cost in the range specified . Try some Global Banks they have a better mechanisms that using SWIFT and if your volumes are right , they may offer you better services at lower cost .
I wrote a <URL> ( < < it may not be obvious - this is a link to pull down the spreadsheet ) a while back that might help you . You can start by putting your current salary next to your age , adjust the percent of income saved ( 14 % for you ) and put in the current total . The sheet basically shows that if one saves 15 % from day one of working and averages an 8 % return , they are on track to save over 20X their final income , and at the 4 % withdrawal rate , will replace 80 % of their income . ( Remember , if they save 15 % and at retirement the 7.65 % FICA / medicare goes away , so it 's 100 % of what they had anyway . ) For what it 's worth , a 10 % average return drops what you need to save down to 9 % . I say to a young person - try to start at 15 % . Better that when you 're 40 , you realize you 're well ahead of schedule and can relax a bit , than to assume that 8-9 % is enough to save and find you need a large increase to catch up . To answer specifically here - there are those who concluded that 4 % is a safe withdrawal rate , so by targeting 20X your final income as retirement savings , you 'll be able to retire well . Retirement spending needs are not the same for everyone . When I cite an 80 % replacement rate , it 's a guess , a rule of thumb that many point out is flawed . The ' real ' number is your true spending need , which of course can be far higher or lower . The younger investor is going to have a far tougher time guessing this number than someone a decade away from retiring . The 80 % is just a target to get started , it should shift to the real number in your 40s or 50s as that number becomes clear . Next , I see my original answer did n't address Social Security benefits . The benefit is n't linear , a lower wage earner can see a benefit of as much as 50 % of what they earned each year while a very high earner would see far less as the benefit has a maximum . A $ 90k earner will see 30 % or less . The social security site does a great job of giving you your projected benefit , and you can adjust target savings accordingly . 2016 update - the prior 20 years returned 8.18 % CAGR . Considering there were 2 crashes one of which was called a mini-depression , 8.18 % is pretty remarkable . For what it 's worth , my adult investing life started in 1984 , and I 've seen a CAGR of 10.90 % . For forecasting purposes , I think 8 % long term is a conservative number . To answer member " doobop " comment - the 10 years from 2006-2015 had a CAGR of 7.29 % . Time has a way of averaging that lost decade , the 00 's , to a more reasonable number .
Banks are not your friends , they are not performing services for you because they like you . They are a business , and they make money by borrowing money from you at low interest and loaning it out at higher interest . They are trying to persuade you to deposit more money ( however briefly ) in their bank so they can loan out more money . They are probably also counting on the fact that most folks wo n't go to the trouble of setting up accounts at multiple banks with the interlocking automatic transfers , in order to meet the required deposit threshold . That lets them save on the interest payments to consumers that are individually tiny , but significant in the aggregate .
There is no simple way to calculate how much house any given person can afford . In the answer keshlam gave , several handy rules of thumb are mentioned that are used as common screening devices to reject loans , but in every case further review is required to approve any loan . The 28 % rule is the gold standard for estimating how much you can afford , but it is only an estimate ; all the details ( that you do n't want to provide ) are required to give you anything better than an estimate . In the spirit of JoeTaxpayer 's answer I 'm going to give you a number that you can multiply your gross income by for a good estimate , but my estimate is based on a 15 year mortgage . Assuming a 15 year mortgage with a 3 % interest rate , it will cost $ 690.58 per $ 100,000 borrowed . So to take those numbers and wrap it up in a bow , you can multiply your income by 3.38 and have the amount of mortgage that most people can afford . If you have a down-payment saved add it to the number above for the total price of the home you can buy after closing costs are added in . Property taxes and insurance rates vary widely , and those are often rolled into the mortgage payment to be paid from an escrow account , banks may consider all of these factors in their calculators but they may not be transparent . If you ca n't afford to pay it in 15 years , you really ca n't afford it . Compare the same $ 100k loan : In 30 years at 4 % you pay about $ 477/month with a total of about $ 72k in interest over the life of the loan . In 15 years at 3 % you pay about $ 691/month but the total interest is only $ 24k , and you are out of the loan in half of the time . The equity earned in the first 5 years is also signficantly different with 28.5 % for the 15 year loan vs. 9.5 % on the 30 year loan . Without straying too far into general economics , 15 year loans would also have averted the mortgage crisis of 2008 , because more people would have had enough equity that they would n't have walked out on their homes when there was a price correction .
Mortgages are <URL> recourse loans everywhere in Canada other than Alberta and Saskatchewan . Note that you must have a mortgage without mortgage default insurance , otherwise it is still a recourse loan . You are required to get mortgage default insurance when taking out the mortgage , unless you put down at least 20 % on your downpayment . You can subsequently remove the insurance once you pass that threshold . These requirements make it much less likely , though obviously not impossible , for your mortgage to be underwater . Note that walking away from your no-recourse mortgage will still result in a hit on your credit rating , at least in Alberta . This may make it harder or impossible to get loans for the next few years . I believe you live in BC , based on your profile . Typically , all mortgages in BC would be recourse mortgages .
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
Deliberately breaking transactions into smaller units to avoid reporting requirements is called <URL> and may attract the attention of the IRS and/or law enforcement agencies . I 'm not sure what the specific laws are on structuring with respect to FBAR reporting requirements and/or electronic transfers ( as opposed to cash transactions ) . However , there 's been substantial recent publicity about cases where people had their assets seized simply because federal agents suspected they were trying to avoid reporting requirements ( even if there was no hard evidence of this ) . It is safer not to risk it . Do n't try to structure your transactions to avoid the reporting requirements .
HSA accounts come with various rules intended to ensure that the pre-tax money you have opted to put into your HSA account is indeed used for appropriate purposes . Most employers do n't handle these accounts in-house but contract with a company or bank who offers to take care of the details and the necessary accounting : the money is simply sent to the bank , and it is the bank that is responsible for ensuring that the money is indeed used appropriately . Now , if you say that you want Wells Fargo ( to pick another bank as an example ) to handle your HSA account , the employer will likely need to have a contract with Wells Fargo too , and Wells Fargo will charge you fees to handle the account also . Whether you will be any happier with Wells Fargo 's fees for a one-off HSA account versus Chase 's fees where a ( smaller ) bulk rate might be charged is something that you should find out before approaching your employer with a request to have Wells Fargo handle your HSA account .
If you participate in an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401 ( k ) your right to deduct an IRA contribution is phased out once your income reaches a certain level . This is from the IRS website for 2010 : " If either you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan , you may be entitled to only a partial ( reduced ) deduction or no deduction at all , depending on your income and your filing status . Your deduction begins to decrease ( phase out ) when your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount . These amounts vary depending on your filing status . " Here is the link : <URL>
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
Whether or not I trust them depends entirely on the personal finance application . In the cases of Mint and Quicken , I would trust both . Always make sure to do plenty of research before submitting any personal information to any source .
You 're looking for a <URL> . Discount brokers " charge clients significantly lower fees than traditional brokerage firm but without providing investment advice . Discount brokers typically allow investors to buy and sell securities on-line while offering comparatively fewer services and/or support . " To use one of your examples , <URL> allows you to trade stocks , ETF 's , mutual funds , bonds , options , futures , currencies , etc. . Depending on what securities you choose to trade and what discount broker you use , you may still have to pay commissions and satisfy margin requirements . Some investment firms like E-Trade , Fidelity , etc. will also offer full investment management and brokerage services , but you 're not required to pay for them or take advantage of them . Another thing to keep in mind is that if you 're just starting out investing and only have a small amount of money to invest , commissions could quickly eat up all of your profits if you buy and sell fairly frequently . <URL> may give you a little more guidance for investing small amounts in securities like mutual funds instead of individual stocks , bonds , etc. . You might find the answers to these questions helpful as well : <URL> <URL> Some of the answers specifically refer to stock trading , but if you 're unsure about which securities a specific brokerage firm allows you to trade , a quick online search for " &#60; brokerage firm &#62; investment choices " should clear up the confusion . Alternatively , just call the firm and ask or surf their website .
The primary tax-sheltered investing vehicles in Canada include : The <URL> . You can contribute up to 18 % of your prior year 's earned income , up to a limit ( $ 24,930 in 2015 , plus past unused contribution allowance ) and receive an income tax deduction for your contributions . In an RRSP , investments grow on a tax-deferred basis . No tax is due until you begin withdrawals . When you withdraw funds , the withdrawn amount will be taxed at marginal income tax rates in effect at that time . The RRSP is similar to the U.S. " traditional " IRA , being an individual account with pre-tax contributions , tax-deferred growth , and ordinary tax rates applied to withdrawals . Yet , RRSPs have contribution limits higher than IRAs ; higher , even , than U.S. 401 ( k ) employee contribution limits . But , the RRSP is dissimilar to the IRA and 401 ( k ) since an individual 's annual contribution allowance is n't use-it-or-lose-it -- unused allowance accumulates . The <URL> . Once you turn 18 , you can put in up to $ 5,500 each year , irrespective of earned income . Like the RRSP , contribution room accumulates . If you were 18 in 2009 ( when TFSAs were introduced ) you 'd be able to contribute $ 36,500 if you 'd never contributed to one before . Unlike the RRSP , contributions to a TFSA are made on an after-tax basis and you pay no tax when you withdraw money . The post-tax nature of the TFSA and completely tax-free withdrawals makes them comparable to Roth-type accounts in the U.S. ; i.e. while you wo n't get a tax deduction for contributing , you wo n't pay tax on earnings when withdrawn . Yet , unlike U.S. Roth-type accounts , you are not required to use the TFSA strictly for retirement savings -- there is no penalty for pre-retirement withdrawal of TFSA funds . There are also employer-sponsored defined benefit ( DB ) and defined contribution ( DC ) retirement pension plans . Generally , employees who participate in these kinds of plans have their annual RRSP contribution limits reduced . I wo n't comment on these kinds of plans other than to say they exist and if your employer has one , check it out -- many employees lose out on free money by not participating . The under-appreciated <URL> . Typically used for education savings . A lifetime $ 50,000 contribution limit per beneficiary , and you can put that all in at once if you 're not concerned about maximizing grants ( see below ) . No tax deduction for contributions , but investments grow on a tax-deferred basis . Original contributions can be withdrawn tax-free . Qualified educational withdrawals of earnings are taxed as regular income in the hands of the beneficiary . An RESP beneficiary is typically a child , and in a child 's case the Canadian federal government provides matching grant money ( called CESG ) of 20 % on the first $ 2500 contributed each year , up to age 18 , to a lifetime maximum of $ 7200 per beneficiary . Grant money is subject to additional conditions for withdrawal . While RESPs are typically used to save for a child 's future education , there 's nothing stopping an adult from opening an RESP for himself . If you 've never had one , you can deposit $ 50,000 of after-tax money to grow on a tax-deferred basis for up to 36 years ... as far as I understand . An adult RESP will not qualify for CESG . Moreover , if you use the RESP strictly as a tax shelter and do n't make qualified educational withdrawals when the time comes , your original contributions still come out free of tax but you 'll pay ordinary income tax plus 20 % additional tax on the earnings portion . That 's the " catch " * . * However , if at that time you have accumulated sufficient RRSP contribution room , you may move up to $ 50,000 of your RESP earnings into your RRSP without any tax consequences ( i.e. also avoiding the 20 % additional tax ) at time of transfer . Perhaps there 's something above you have n't considered . Still , be sure to do your own due diligence and to consult a qualified , experienced , and conflict-free financial advisor for advice particular to your own situation .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between a company 's after-tax profit and their sales/revenue ?
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
A more generic definition applying to all currency denominations would be : Main currency : for the whole unit currency part left of the decimal point Fractional currency : for the part to the right of the decimal point usually measured in 1/100 of the main unit ( at least in modern times ) . For more information , please see <URL> : Each currency typically has a main currency unit ( the U.S. dollar , for example , or the euro ) and a fractional currency , often valued at 1⁄100 of the main currency [ ... ]
From the article <URL> The IRS has some advice for taxpayers who missed the tax filing deadline . File as soon as possible . If you owe federal income tax , you should file and pay as soon as you can to minimize any penalty and interest charges . There is no penalty for filing a late return if you are due a refund .
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae both do essentially the same thing : they repackage mortgages into investments ( aka mortgage-backed securities ) and sell those securities to investors . If a mortgage borrower defaults , it affects the value of the securities . Ginnie Mae performs the same function as Freddie and Fannie , except they only deal with government-insured mortgages , such as those backed by the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) . Example : If a FHA mortgage borrower defaults , FHA and Ginnie Mae continue to make payments to those who invested in Ginnie Mae securities . Due to the subprime crisis , Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 's securities lost a lot of value . Those who invested in Freddie/Fannie bonds lost money . Both corporations had to be taken over by the government and placed in a conservatorship . Ginnie Mae 's securities , on the other hand , remained relatively stable due to the government guarantee on them . Investors in Ginnie Mae bonds did not lose money . However , if any Ginnie Mae mortgage borrowers default , the extra payments the government has to make to investors in order to compensate comes out of tax dollars , thus everyone is affected in a way .
Wisegeeks are explaining it well , Investopedia are mentioning it briefly . The difference is in the accounting treatment . The difference is hard to notice , but significant : for example if your company is making ice cream , then the earnings would be the revenue from selling ice cream minus all the costs to produce ice cream ( including materials , salary , equipment , transportation , etc ) . But the profits would also include other revenue ( for example - interest on cash in the bank ) , reduced by other expenses ( for example , the CEO 's vacation with the mistress to Argentina ) . Large difference between earnings and profits may suggest that the company spends a lot of money on unrelated activities ( for negative difference ) or has a lot of unrelated income ( for positive difference ) . Differences in accounting methods ( for example GAAP vs IFRS ) may also contribute to the difference between the revenue and the profits .
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
Budget means both expenses and revenue . In quite a few cases , say personal finance , typically one refers to budget more from expenses point of view as the revenue is typically fixed/known [ mostly salary ] . The Operating budget and capital budget are laid out separately as Operating budget gives out day to day expenses that are typically essential , employee salaries , routine maintenance of infrastructure etc. . The revenue is also tied in to match this . These are done within the same year . Where as capital budget is to build new infrastructure say a new bridge or other major expense that are done over period of years . The revenues to this are typically tied up differently and can even be linked to getting more funding from other agencies or loans .
CDs are from banks . Share Certificates are from Credit Unions . Otherwise they are essentially the same . For CDs you are paid interest . For Share Certificates you are paid dividends . The CDs at a traditional bank are insured by the FDIC . The Share Certificates are insured by the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) .
No . $ 188.23 has $ 11.76 tax = $ 199.99 $ 188.24 has $ 11.77 tax - $ 200.01 So , unless the based price contained the half cent for $ 188.235 , the register would never show $ 200.00 even . How does the receipt to customer look ?
You can invoice your advertisers and use the date of the invoice for tax purposes . Some advertisers may want to pay monthly , weekly etc so that would require multiple entries as income on the relevant dates .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
Amortizing loans pay off some of the value of the loan ( otherwise known as principal ) with each payment , whereas non-amortizing loans only pay the interest , so the full value of the loan is still owed at the end of the loan . This means that with an amortizing loan you progressively pay off the loan value bit by bit as time goes on .
Speculation means putting your money on a hunch that some event may occur , depending on current circumstances and some future circumstances . So either you win huge or lose a lot . Investment is a conscious decision made on well defined research and grounded on good reasons i.e. economy , industry , company reports etc. . Here is a link on wikipedia with more details on <URL> .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
I think that the reason is the same one that is driving the costs of undergraduate degrees . There is no incentive to provide competitive costs because Economic inflation is pushing this up just like everything else . Anyone that wants that degree or doctorate needs to go to an accredited school ( same for undergrad ) . Financial aid and private loans ( even at horrible rates ) are widely available and are not given out with proper credit risk analysis . I will admit that I 'm from the school of thought that financial aid is partially to blame because it subsidizes the true costs and alters the supply and demand that is at work in all markets . I think that if the costs were allowed to reflect the supply and demand without subsidization through heavy financial aid , they would push demand down and stabilize the costs . I also think that eventually the costs would begin to fall to reflect the loss in revenue from people not going to school , and then the system would balance itself . That 's the beauty of a true free market , whether you believe that the actual supply or actual demand is ethically right , it does reflect the true costs .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
I believe you are talking about Public Provident Fund and National Savings Certificate schemes in India . <URL> - > Deposit money - > If you want to take a loan after 3 years , you can take out 25 % of the balance in your PPF account . <URL> - > Money locked for 6 years and can only be encashed after 3 years , you cancel your deposit and encash all your money . Money is safe in both cases , because they are secured by the Indian government . But interest ( 8.75 % at present for both in 2014-15 financial year ) is compunded anually for PPF , but half yearly for NSC . So you get a higher interest rate in case of NSC . So if you can lock in your money , without any need for withdrawls , choose a NSC for higher returns . Tax rebate wise , both are same .
end question
start question
U.S. citizen moving to Canada and keeping U.S.-based job via telecommuting . What taxes will I have to pay ?
As with all tax questions , you need to do your own research and possibly consult a professional . Here is what I have found to be true while working outside the US . However , I have never worked in Canada , so I 'm not sure of the rules specific to living there . In general , the US government wants your income taxes regardless of where you live . If you 're in a situation where the country that you live in also wants you to pay taxes on your income , you are then allowed to deduct those taxes from the amount you owe the US government . So basically , you have to pay at least the amount of taxes that you would owe the US . If you pay less than that elsewhere , you pay the difference to the US , otherwise you just pay local taxes . Either way , you still have to file your US tax return , even if you do n't owe anything . Of course the stuff above about paying local taxes mostly just applies if you 're working in another country , for a company that 's based in that country . Since you 're working remotely for a US-based company , you might not actually pay any local taxes , but that depends on Canada 's laws , with which I am not familiar . Either way , there 's no way to get out of paying at least what you owe in US federal income taxes .
In regards to your 1st question , if you are a US resident ( according to IRS rules ) and you have any foreign bank accounts , then you need to file a <URL> for every year in which any of these accounts has more than $ 10,000 . This is the way that IRS keeps track of substantial amounts of money kept by US residents in foreign accounts .
As per the <URL> the Social Security Tax is not considered . There is no mention of State Tax . As per the definition , only Federal Tax is considered .
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
If your dad would have won money on the slot machines ( And the amount was high ) , the casino would have given him a W2G to fill out right there and taxes would have been deducted . However , table games including Poker does not have any such rule . You will have to account for your winnings ( And losses ) at the end of the year . So , it is ok if you sign that paper , as you do not owe the IRS any money yet . You will still need to file your taxes as a non resident alien at the end of the year and attach the form W2G with it and pay your dues .
I do n't see countries switching to the USD , I see countries moving away from it . The US has the largest peace time debt ever , is not being even close to fiscally responsible ( approving ~ 4 trillion budget ! ) and is faced with 100 trillion in future commitments ( social security , medicare ) with a workforce ( tax base ) that is decreasing as the baby boomers retire . When the US can not meet those obligations ( and most experts agree there is no hope of that anymore ) they will have to print money and devalue the currency .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
It may be reported to the Treasury ( <URL> ) . Any cash transaction of over $ 10K is . In addition to the strict reporting requirements that the FinCen imposes , banks can report whatever they feel like if they think its suspicious . Another thing to keep in mind is that the IRS might ask for a gift tax return from the payer , or a foreign gift report from you . While you claim this is a loan , it may not necessarily be seen as such by the IRS . You need to have proper paperwork ready to show the source of the money if asked , and show that it is a bona fide loan , and that 's it . Also , how would I report capital gains on trades that I have made . Do I actually have to send every single trade I make to the government and show profits and losses on each trade ? Yes . That would be part of your schedule D or E on your yearly tax return .
No . Things are a little complicated , but in a nutshell , assuming you 'll be staying there for at least an entire tax year without any interruptions , you 're entitled to a <URL> that reduces taxable income . For 2014 , the maximum exclusion was $ 99,200 per taxpayer . So unless your income gets passed the $ 99,200 threshold , you do n't have to worry about paying income taxes in the U.S.
No , as per the Ontario FAQ on the HST . <URL> It does note that some of the services that condo buildings purchase will be subject to HST , so the condo fee itself might have to change , but therefore indirectly , as opposed to being subject to the tax itself .
In a relative sense yes there is potential for this . For example Microsoft maintained it 's AAA rating . ( on the other hand , MS has so much cash , you wonder what it might need to issue bonds for . )
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
The United States taxes nonresident aliens on two types of income : First , a nonresident alien who is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is taxed on income that is effectively connected with that trade or business . Second , certain types of U.S.-source payments are subject to income tax withholding . The determination of when a nonresident alien is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is highly fact-specific and complex . However , keeping assets in a U.S. bank account should not be treated as a U.S. trade or business . A nonresident alien 's interest income is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30 percent under Section 1441 of the tax code . Interest on bank deposits , however , benefit from an exception under Section 1441 ( c ) ( 10 ) , so long as that interest is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business . Even though no tax needs to be withheld on interest on a bank deposit , the bank should still report that interest each year to the IRS on Form 1042-S . The IRS can then send that information to the tax authority in Brazil . Please keep in mind that state and local tax rules are all different , and whether interest on the bank deposits is subject to state or local tax will depend on which state the bank is in . Also , the United States does tax nonresident aliens on wages paid from a U.S. company , if those wages are treated as U.S.-source income . Generally , wages are U.S.-source income if the employee provides services while physically present in the United States . There are a few exceptions to this rule , but they depend on the amount of wages and other factors that are specific to the employee 's situation . This is an area where you should really consult with a U.S. tax advisor before the employment starts . Maybe your company will pay for it ?
As a US citizen , you pay your taxes to the US Federal government on worldwide income , regardless of your residency . Check your State laws ( the State where you 're considered resident , vote for example ) about whether you also need to pay state taxes . Also , depending on the country in which you earn the income , you might have to pay taxes there . You 'll have to specifically check the laws of each country to know how much you have to pay , and how to report it . Generally , countries tax income sourced on their soil , but some ( like US ) may also tax income sourced elsewhere if they deem you to be their tax resident . Since you 're a US citizen , tax treaties between the US and the relevant countries are also affecting you . There 's a tax treaty between the US and Canada , for example . You 'll have to check if your tax residency in Norway has been terminated . Generally one would assume that when your period of stay on a temporary visa is over - you 're no longer tax resident . But that 's logic , laws may be different .
The Economist aggregates data from financial lenders around the world . <URL> is their most recent analysis , but they also have a data site where you can play around and view <URL> .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
No you do n't . It 's often easier to take an example . Imagine you sell a put option , strike $ 100 on a MLP trading at $ 100 , expiring in a month and the market expects a dividend payment of $ 5 , ex in 5 days . Then the option will price based on the fact that the stock will probably trade around $ 95 when it expires and your put will be worth $ 5 + some time value . On the ex date , the stock will go down by ca . $ 5 but the price of the option wo n't move due to that price move because it was already " priced in " . If however the company announces the day after you bought/sold the option that the dividend will be $ 6 instead of the expected $ 5 , your put will probably raise by $ 1 to reflect the new expectation . Whether you buy or sell the put , you wo n't pay/receive any dividends .
No . As a rule , the dividends you see in the distribution table are what you 'll receive before paying any taxes . Tax rates differ between <URL> and unqualified/ordinary dividends , so the distribution ca n't include taxes because tax rates may differ between investors . In my case I hold it in an Israeli account but the tax treaty between our countries still specifies 25 % withheld tax This is another example of why tax rates differ between investors . If I hold SPY too , my tax rate will be very different because I do n't hold it in an account like yours , so the listed dividend could n't include taxes .
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
end question
start question
When are new versions of Quicken released ? Should I wait a certain period of time before upgrading ?
I upgrade every 3 years because that is when they stop supporting versions . My needs are modest and I really only use the budgeting , statement downloads and registers , and those items have been working well for the past 6 years . I do n't see any reason to pay the $ 70 Quicken tax every year unless there is a new feature that really compels you .
With the information you have given , I would say never . Remember the banker is a salesman , and the line of credit is the product . If you do n't need to borrow the money for something specific , then you do n't need the line of credit in the first place . Even if you did need something I would tell you to save up and pay cash for it . On the tax advantage : There is none , in the US you can deduct your mortgage interest on your taxes but it 's not a tax credit it 's a tax deductions . Let me explain further : You spend $ 10,000 on mortgage interest , and you 're in the 25 % tax bracket . You send the bank $ 10,000 in return you get at tax savings of $ 2500 . You are still in the hole $ 7500 You would have been better off not taking out the loan in the first place . On the Emergency Fund : You should have 3 - 6 months of expenses in cash , like a money market account . This money is n't for investing , it 's like insurance , and you do n't make money on insurance . The last thing you want to do is have to go into debt right in the middle of an emergency . Say you lost your job , the last thing you would want to do is borrow money , right at the time you have no income to pay it back . The bank is under no obligation to maintain you credit limit and can without notice reduce it , they can in most cases call the loan balance due in full with little or no notice as well . Both of those are likely scenarios if the bank were to become aware of the fact that you were unemployed .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
A couple of good books I enjoyed and found very understandable ( regarding the stock market ) : How to Buy Stocks by Louis Engel One Up on Wall Street by Peter Lynch As for investment information you can get lost for days in Investopedia . <URL> and click around . The tutorials <URL> ( free ) give a good introduction to different financial topics . Regarding theoretical knowledge : start with what you know well , like your career or your other interests . You 'll get a running start that way . Beyond that , it depends on what area of finance you want to start with . If it 's your personal finances , I and a lot of other bloggers write about it all the time . Any of the bloggers on my blogroll ( see my profile for the link ) will give you a good perspective . If you want to go head first into planning your financial life , take a look at Brett Wilder 's The Quiet Millionaire . It 's very involved and thorough . And , of course , ask questions here .
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
All bonds carry a risk of default , which means that it 's possible that you can lose your principal investment in addition to potentially not getting the interest payments that you expect . Bonds ( in the US anyway ) are graded , so you can manage this risk somewhat by taking higher quality bonds , i.e. in companies or governments that are considered more creditworthy . Regular bank savings ( again specific to the US ) are insured by FDIC , so even if your bank goes bust , the US Government is backing them up to some limit . That makes such accounts less risky . There 's generally no insurance on a bond , even if it is issued by a government entity . If you do your homework on the bond rating system and choose bonds in a rating band where you 're comfortable , this could be a good option for you . You 'll find , however , that the bond market also " knows " that the interest rates are generally low , so be ware that higher interest issues are usually coming from less creditworthy ( and therefore more risky ) issuers . EDIT Here 's some additional information based on the follow-up question in the comment . When you buy a bond you are actually making a loan to the issuer . They will pay you interest over the lifetime of the bond and then return your principal at the end of the term . ( Verify this payment schedule - This is typical , but you should be sure that whatever you 're buying works like this . ) This is not an investment in the value of the issuer itself like you would be making if you bought stock . With stock you are taking an ownership share in the company . This might entitle you to dividends if the company pays them , but otherwise your investment value on a stock will be tied to the performance of the company . With the bond , the company might be in decline but the bond still a good investment so long as the company does n't decline so much that they can not pay their debts . Also , bonds can be issued by governments , but governments do not sell stock . ( An " ownership share of the government " would not make sense . ) This may be the so-called sovereign debt if issued by a sovereign government or it may be local ( we call it municipal here in the US ) debt issued by a subordinate level of government . Bonds are a little bit like stock in the sense that there 's a secondary market for them . That means that if you get partway through the length of the bond and do n't want to hold it , you can sell the bond to someone else . Of course , it will be harder to sell a bond later if the company becomes insolvent or if the interest rates go up between when you buy and when you sell . Depending on these market factors , you might end up with a capital gain or capital loss ( meaning you get more or less than the principal that you put into the bond ) at the time of a sale .
Credit scores are based a lot on your available credit and your demonstrated ability to repay debts . Available credit is typically how much unused credit is available on your credit cards . Advice : PAY AS MUCH AS YOU CAN - AS EARLY AS YOU CAN In my eyes , Student Loans are evil . Life has a way of happening , and next thing you know , you 'll be 30 , or 40 , and still paying off your Student Loan . Student Loan default rates have never been higher - and you do n't want to fall into that category - that will surely affect your credit in a bad way . Lastly , think of it this way - say your loan is for $ 5,000 . Yes , the wonderful government is paying the interest now , but 6 months ( or whatever the end of your grace period is ) you will be charged interest on that $ 5,000 . If you pay $ 100 a month now , then at the end of that same 6 month period you will only be charged interest on $ 4,400 . ( $ 5,000 - 6 mo * $ 100 ) . One more thing - check your credit for free here : <URL> I suggest checking it 3 times a year using a different credit reporting agency each time . Checking your credit regularly ( and generally browsing of the sites ) will teach you what affects your credit and what does n't .
Take a peek at the discussion at <URL> , in which I offer a look at the returns over shorter periods . The 20 yr returns are as follows <URL> The total returns in the middle col , and CAGR last . These are the returns for all 20 year periods from 1900-2014 . It shows an average of 11 % , and a minimum 3 % . In other words , of 96 time periods , 51 were less than 10 % , 45 were greater , and the average , 11.2 % . <URL> offers S&amp;P data easily copied into a spreadsheet . And you can manipulate to analyze as you wish . The nature of returns is closer to a bell curve . You ca n't make that final assumption that you suggested . The disparity between getting less than 3X your money vs over 20X over the bad/good 20 year periods is what makes for difficulty planning strategies . On a personal note - I am semi-retired . 53 yrs old . How different could I spend if I knew with certainty whether the next 40 years would return 3 % vs 11 % ? ( min , vs ave , I wo n't even fantasize over 15 % + )
The benefit of multiple accounts - You might wish to have more beneficiary combinations than one account form will permit . You wish to buy a fund that 's part of a different broker 's free offering . If held in banks where the FDIC insurance limits might be an issue , separate banks might make sense . I 'll edit ( and invite others to ) if I think of others , but Dilip 's answer , ' no ' is correct . Taxwise , no benefit .
It does not matter . Your credit score is affected by late payments , by credit usage and by age of credit . DO NOT PAY LATE . Paying early is only good in that it means you do n't pay late . Your credit usage is calculated by percentage of the credit you have that you actually use . Keep your usage to under 20 % of your limit and you look great as a credit risk as you have lots of buffer .
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
As long as you live in the house ( its your primary residence ) , you must pay $ 500 a year , no skipping . Once you sell , or rent out - you must repay in full the remaining amount . <URL> .
You 're not clueless at all . You do n't mention that you have any debt , but if you have consumer debt , you might want to consider accelerating your payments on those debts unless you 're already doing so . You and your wife have a baby on the way . They 're an absolute joy ( we have a 7-year-old ) , but they 're also a financial strain . If I were in your shoes knowing what I know about your situation , I 'd think carefully and go slowly with any investing until after you adjust to a larger family . That way you run less risk of having a sizable investment tank when you really need the money for your new baby . Continue to learn about investing . There 's no reason to rush into something you 're not comfortable with . If your goal is for a down payment on a house , then continue towards that . Cash is just fine for that . Shop around for a good house from someone who really needs to sell .
You should get this information from your new employer 's plan manager . If they do n't have this information ( they should have instructions on incoming rollovers ... ) - talk to the benefits manager at your new employer , they 'll have it for you . The name must match perfectly the official name of the plan , so asking here wo n't help you much .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
You need to look at the numbers when you 're ready to transact . What your crossover is worth now , what the truck will lease for then , what financing deals may or may not be available will all change . I 'm not sure why you 've already decided you will lease the truck , perhaps you 're planning to take advantage of some kind of business write off . I would personally never put anything down on a lease , though I have argued with people on here about that particular decision . The reality is you need to look at the numbers . Some banks will adjust the interest you pay on your lease to account for your down payment , some do n't . Consider a $ 9,000 lease , $ 250 per month for 36 months . Consider you pay $ 1,000 up front as a down payment . Example 1 : $ 1,000 lowers the amount due on the lease to $ 8,000 lowering your monthly payment to $ 222.22 from $ 250 , the downpayment has accomplished nothing . Over the 36 months you will have still paid the same $ 9,000 . Example 2 : $ 1,000 up front changes the amount owed and other fees generally applicable to a lease ( gap insurance etc ) and your payment drops to $ 215 , your total over the lease is now $ 8,740 ( $ 1,000 down and $ 7,740 in payments ) . You need to look at the numbers . In general if you know you will be purchasing the truck at the end of the lease it 's more financially advantageous to just purchase it from the start .
I would not recommend borrowing your 401 ( k ) money to buy a house for two reasons : When you borrow money from your 401 ( k ) , it is no longer invested . Yes , you pay yourself interest , but you miss out on the investment gains for the life of the loan . If you leave your job , the loan is due in full shortly thereafter . If you do not pay it back , you are hit with taxes and penalties . If I were you , I would roll it over into an IRA for the reasons you mentioned .
Add up all of the expenses . For a rental , two to three months rent is typically needed to pay deposit , first and last month 's rent . Then there 's deposits and fees to have utilities activated and put in your name . Then you should budget for the kitchen : food , dishes , utensils , pots and pans , small appliances . Then the rest : linens , towels , cleaning supplies , bathroom supplies , etc. . Oh . Do n't forget furniture . At least a mattress and a small table with a chair . :) Along the way , you 'll find out how much your monthly expenses are , on average . Use this to calculate how much you need to keep set aside on a permanent basis as your emergency fund .
I would highly recommend the book " four pillars of investing " by William J Bernstein . This is by far , in my humble opinion , the best text on asset allocation . In short , you will need a variety of equity investments , some bonds , and even some cash ( or money market funds ) . Assuming you are designing your retirement income via a combination of financial vehicles , I would put the least tax-efficient investments ( think fix-income products and other that are being treated the same way by CRA ) in RRSP and others in non-registered accounts ( you are only taxed on 50 % of your capital gains and can use past losses to reduce future tax payables ) . If you are just starting out , putting everything in RRSP is not a bad idea either . You can always transform your portfolio ( i.e. across multiple accounts ) as you have more money to invest . The key here is to make sure you have the right mix of asset classes that will best balance risk and return for you unique situation , and annual re-balance to make the ratio stays true . For example , if you can get to your retirement goals with a mere 3-5 % annualized growth in your portfolio - I would go 70 % bonds , 20 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , and 10 % cash/MMF now and shift it into heavier emphasis on bonds as your get closer to your retirement . If you need 5-9 % growth to retire , you would want to do 60 % equity ( in large cap ETFs ) , 30 % bonds , and 10 % cash/MMF ( I do n't advise 70 % equity right now , as the market is still volatile , and depends on who you listen to , this mess might go on for another 10 years or so , which is too close to your retirement ) . If you need more than 10 % of growth to get to your retirement , you will have to either re-assess your retirement goal or go all-in on equity - WARNING , just as my poker analogy suggests , you are gambling if you are doing all equity , but it 's the only way you can get > 10 % annualized return over 10-15 years timeframe . If any of the above sounds confusing to you even after you read the book , please do engage a fee-only financial planner ( i.e. not those that gets paid commission when they sell you something ) to help you map it out . Hope this helps ,
If your current pay is sufficient to support the debt , it would be better to apply for the loan now , with more of a job history . Sufficient depends on the lender , but generally you need a debt-to-income ratio of 36 % or less . Income means income and debt means all debt including the new car loan , mortgage , credit cards , student loans , etc. . If you need the new , higher income to meet the debt-to-income ratio , you 'll have to wait and take your chances .
end question
start question
Help me understand the oddity of percentage gains and losses ?
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
That means if you contribute $ 1000 , and that is equal to 5 % of your salary ( salary of $ 20k ) : It 's basically the same as taxes ; you can think of it as the marginal rate . So , for the " 40 % on the next 2 % " , that means that " first take the amount equal to 2 % of your salary , and match that 100 % . Then take the amount left and match at 40 % , up to the amount which is another 2 % of your ( original ) salary . " Whichever contribution bracket you 're in , the next dollar you contribute is at that matching percentage , and when you ' finish ' a bracket you are at a known total match amount - ie , you can pre-calculate all of those levels , just like the IRS does . So , you could reword this way : These are calculated by taking the ' cap ' of each range , and then adding that to the portion of the marginal range . You can think of it as buckets : while you 're filling one bucket , you get that bucket 's match . When that bucket 's full , the portion of match you got for that bucket is fixed at that amount , and you move to the next bucket and start matching at that rate for the money that 's going into that bucket . If it helps , here is a chart of your contribution versus match . The colors denote the buckets and thus the marginal rates , but are not otherwise meaningful . At any point in the line you can see your contribution ( on the bottom , x-axis ) and the corresponding company match ( on the left , y-axis ) . You can see in the red section , for example , that the slope changes - after 2 % your company matches only 0.4 times the value of your contribution from 2.01 % to 4 % of your original salary . If you 're contributing in a green section , then your company match is 100 % of what you contribute . If you 're in the red section , then your company match is 2 % of your salary , plus 40 % of your contribution over 2 % of your salary ; so your marginal rate is 40 % . This means that the next dollar you contribute will earn $ 0.40 from your company match . In the blue section , you earn 0.25 for every dollar you contribute , above and beyond 2.8 % of your salary .
Yes When exercising a stock option you will be buying the stock at the strike price so you will be putting up your money , if you lose that money you can declare it as a loss like any other transaction . So if the stock is worth $ 1 and you have 10 options with a strike at $ 0.50 you will spend $ 500 when you exercise your options . If you hold those shares and the company is then worth $ 0 you lost $ 500 . I have not verified my answer so this is solely from my understanding of accounting and finance . Please verify with your accountant to be sure .
Charitable deductions ( and all Schedule A deductions ) are applied to your marginal tax calculation . They reduce the taxable income on the line 43 of your tax return ( form 1040 ) . When you calculate your tax on the <URL> , you start with that number . You then deduct all the capital gains from it and calculate the ordinary tax on line 24 of the worksheet .
You normally only pay taxes on the difference between the sale price and the <URL> of the asset . In your example , you would probably pay taxes on the $ 10 difference , not the full sale price of $ 110 . If you paid a commission , however , you would be taxed on your gain minus the commission you paid . Since you held the asset for less than a year , you would n't pay the <URL> of 20 % ; you 'd be taxed on the capital gain as if it were ordinary income , which depends on your federal income tax bracket . Also , littleadv makes a good point about <URL> too , so that 's another part of the equation to consider as well .
First a warning : if you 're a foreigner you must familiarize yourself with the FATCA and FBAR requirements . Search this forum and ask questions if you do n't know what these are . The penalties are horrifying and can drive you bankrupt even if you do n't even owe a dime in taxes , just because you did n't attach a piece of paper to your tax return . To your question : In the United States , brokers/banks do not withhold taxes from your gains ( what is called " at source " ) , it is your responsibility . Taxes are due when the income is earned , i.e. : when you sell the stocks . Paying on April 15th next year may trigger late payment penalties . The right way to do it is using <URL> . However , since capital gains is not your only income but you also have salary , you have another option . Using <URL> , you can adjust the withholding your employer takes out of your paycheck so that it will cover not only the salary itself but also the extra income you have through capital gains . If you do that , you do not need to do the quarterly estimates . You can use the worksheets in W4 instructions to calculate the exact number . What you need to understand is that the employer does n't withhold the actual tax , but rather what you think your actual tax should be given your situation . Using form W4 you can ask the employer to withhold more or less , and you can change your selection during the year if adjustments are required . Any tax paid through withholding is considered paid on time ( even if all of it is paid on December 31st ) . If you withheld too much , it balances out on your yearly tax return ( the one due by the April 15th ) , and you get a refund from the IRS . If you withheld too little - you have tax due on April 15th and you pay it . As long as due is less than $ 1000 or whatever your tax liability was the year before - you wo n't have penalties ( the $ 1000 delta refers to withholding only , if you paid through estimates and have tax due - you may get hit by penalties even if you owe less than $ 1000 ) . Do I have to keep all record of transactions in order to calculate the gains and appropriate tax payment ? You need to keep all records as long as the tax year is open ( statute of limitation is 3-6 years for most income tax issues ) , however it is advised to digitize your records and keep it forever . You 'll need it in case of an audit or dispute with the IRS or the State taxing agency .
This is only a rule of thumb . Peter Lynch popularized it ; the ratio PE/growth is often called the <URL> . At best it 's a very rough guideline . It completely ignores the balance sheet . It makes no distinction between accounting earnings and cash flow . It does n't consider qualitative characteristics like management competence . I could fill up this page with other caveats . I 'm not saying that it 's wrong , only that it 's grossly incomplete . For a 10 second eyeball valuation of growth stocks , it 's fine . But that 's the extent of its usefulness .
This is definitely a scam . Do n't reply to the email at all . Do n't forward it or save it . Just mark it as spam/junk in your email client and delete it . These emails are known as <URL> or " dead customer scams " , and there are several variations on this theme . For example : Someone will email you claiming that they need you to stand in as the next-of-kin in order to access some money . They 'll probably ask you to send them various fees , e.g. for processing , bribes , taxes , etc. and in return , they promise you a cut of the funds . Obviously , there is no money . They 're trying to scam you out of money or personal information ( which they might use to impersonate you and get more money from you ) . They might tell you that 90 % of the funds transferred will go to you , while 10 % will go to the manager . They 'll send you a personal check , money order , or even a legitimate-looking cashier check , etc. from a foreign bank and ask you to send them a personal check to the manager ( or some " family member " of the manager ) . They cash your personal check , while the check/order they sent you bounces when it reaches the issuing bank . Not only do they have your money , they also have a check with your personal information , e.g. name , address , bank account numbers , etc. , on it . These are extremely common scams . The safest route is simply to completely ignore the email and delete it immediately . If you have already replied to the email but have n't sent any personal information , everything I said above still applies . Ignore all further emails from them and delete them immediately . Your email address may receive more spam in the future because by replying , they know that you either have a weak spam filter or are more likely to be fooled by such scams . Regardless , ignore all further emails , mark them as spam/junk in your email client if possible , and delete them immediately . If you did send any personal information in a reply , monitor all of your bank accounts , credit cards , credit reports , etc. and check for any fraudulent activity . Notify your bank , credit card company , etc. immediately if you see anything remotely suspicious . Also , never reply to an email like this again . If you have any doubts about an email , ask about it here before doing anything . DumbCoder made an <URL> too : Remember when somebody offers you free money , you should ask yourself what have you done to deserve it and that too from a person , about whom you know nothing about .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
So , lets get it straight . I 'm using 2014 numbers and my Intuit tax software : Let 's ignore the ACA tax here , it comes into play since you did n't mention anything about the ACA mandate insurance . Looking at the calculation worksheet ( <URL> ) - the account is right ( the tax amount may be a bit off , since the tax tables are still not updated for 2014 ) . You have $ 20000 capital gains , and $ 6000 ordinary income . Capital gains are taxed at 0 , as expected . Ordinary income is taxed at $ 603 , <URL> .
It is typically very easy to roll a 401 ( k ) into an IRA . Companies that provide IRA 's are very experienced with it , and I would expect that they will take your calls from overseas . You will likely be able to do it over the internet without using a phone at all . Just open an IRA with any brokerage company ( Scottrade , Vanguard , Fidelity , Schwab , Ameritrade , etc. ) and follow instructions to roll your 401 ( k ) into it . Most likely they will need your signature , but usually a scan of a form you have filled out will do . Be sure to have information on your 401 ( k ) provider , including your account number there , on hand . These companies are all very reputable and this is not a difficult transaction . There 's really no downside to rolling into an IRA . 401 ( k ) plans usually have more limited options and/or worse fee structures and are frequently harder to work with , as you have observed .
The S&amp;P 500 index is maintained by S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices , a division of McGraw Hill Financial . Changes to the index are made periodically , as needed . For Facebook , you 'll find it mentioned in this <URL> . Quote : New York , NY , December 11 , 2013 -- S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices will make the following changes to the S&amp;P 100 , S&amp;P 500 , MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 indices after the close of trading on Friday , December 20 : Facebook Inc. ( NASD : FB ) will replace The Williams Companies Inc. ( NYSE : WMB ) in the S&amp;P 100 , and Facebook will replace Teradyne Inc. . ( NYSE : TER ) in the S&amp;P 500 [ ... ] You can find out more about the S&amp;P 500 index eligibility criteria from the <URL> . See pages 5 and 6 : Eligibility Criteria Additions - S&amp;P 500 , S&amp;P MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 Market Capitalization . Market Capitalization - [ ... ] Liquidity - [ ... ] Domicile - [ ... ] Public Float - [ ... ] Sector Classification - [ ... ] Financial Viability - Usually measured as four consecutive quarters of positive as reported earnings . [ ... ] Treatment of IPOs - Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months before being considered for addition to an index . Eligible Securities - [ ... ] [ ... ] Timing of Changes Changes to the U.S. indices other than the TMIX are made as needed , with no annual or semi-annual reconstitution . [ ... ] LabCorp may have a smaller market cap than Facebook , but Facebook did n't meet all of the eligibility criteria -- for instance , see the above note about " Treatment of IPOs " -- until recently . Note also that " Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months " implies somebody at S&amp;P makes a decision as to the exact when . As such , I would say , no , there is no " simple rule or formula " , just the methodology above as applied by the decision-makers at S&amp;P .
If the title was " Joint with right of survivorship " as it is usually in California , then 50 % of the property is owned by the deceased spouse . When the living spouse inherits it - the living spouse gets the " stepped up " basis on that 50 % , i.e. : the living spouse 's basis becomes the FMV at the time of death . The 50 % ownership should be reported in the estate tax return and taxed accordingly . What it means is that only 50 % of the gains get the stepped up basis treatment , the other 50 % remain as capital gains of the remaining living spouse . The title transfer does not reset the clock . I.e : if the deceased spouse owned the 50 % stake more than a year - it remains long term capital gain for the living spouse when the property is sold , even if it is the next day . You can read more information on <URL> .
If you do n't have the time or interest to manage investments , you need a financial advisor . Generally speaking , you 're better served by an advisor who collects an annual fee based on a percentage of your account value . Advisors who are compensated based on transactions have a vested interest to churn your account , which is often not in your best interest . You also need to be wary of advisors who peddle expensive mutual funds with sales loads ( aka kick-backs to the advisor ) or annuities . Your advisor 's compensation structure should be transparent as well .
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
When you buy a put option , you 're buying the right to sell stock at the " strike " price . To understand why you have to pay separately for that , consider the other side of the transaction . If I agree to trade stock for money at above market rates , I need to make up the difference somewhere or face bankruptcy . That risk of loss is what the option price is about . You might assume that means the market expects the price of AMD to fall to 8.01 from it 's current price of 8.06 by the option expiration date . But that would also mean call options below the market price is worthless . But that 's not quite true ; people who price options need to factor in volatility , since things change with time . The price MIGHT fall , and traders need to account for that risk . So 1.99 roughly represents the probability of AMD rising to 10 . There 's probably some technical analysis one can do to the chain , but I do n't see any abnormality of AMD here .
A couple of points . You may be able to re-sell the bond after the first year , but you wo n't be guaranteed all your money back : it will still be worth the same in 30 years , but it may not be worth the same tomorrow . If interest rates rise , the price of a new 30-year bond will fall . Since your 29-years-left bond is almost equivalent , you should expect that its face value will also fall . The 30-year bond is the most vulnerable to interest rate risk , since it is so long-term : a little difference in rate will change things a lot after thirty years . Note also that interest rates are at or near historic lows ; they have very little room to fall and a lot of room to rise . Your brokerage , bank , or credit union can help you re-sell your Treasury bonds . You may wish to investigate the process and any fees involved . They will probably be willing to tell you all about it . I can not meaningfully comment on the spreads involved . The Treasury itself may also provide some tools ; visit <URL> and learn more . You may also wish to consider consider a bond mutual fund or ETF . They can be bought or sold like stocks , which may be a more comfortable and convenient process for some people . Note that the interest rate risk in these funds is different than for a bond , because they are continually reinvesting ; the risk does not fall as the bond gets closer to maturity . Read the prospectus .
The rates are always one way round - in this case they are saying that 1 AUD is worth 0.882 or 0.7448 USD . You can check the general scale with plenty of other websites which are more explicit about what they mean , e.g. Google for " 1 AUD in USD " and it currently says " 1 AUD equals 0.79 USD " . The differences in the rates you 've been quoted are because the bank wants to make a profit . If you want to convert your 1 AUD to USD , you pay the worse rate and will get 0.7448 USD . If you want to convert back , you need 0.882 USD to get 1 AUD . When you see just one rate from somewhere like Google it is a " mid-market " rate . It 's not a rate that you could either buy or sell at , but in some sense it 's a measure of what the " real " rate is .
In the old days , a well-written mortgage was based on the mortgage and property tax being less than 28 % of one 's gross income , and total debt including these , no more than 36 % . A 20 % downpayment was required . I dare say that if these rules had been followed , the bubble would not have occurred , and had it still occurred it would not have been as severe . Let 's look at that 28 % number . A $ 60K income gives you $ 1400/mo for the mortgage and property tax . At 5 % , a $ 200K loan ( 30 yr fixed ) is $ 1074 . That leaves $ 326 x 12 = $ 3912 for taxes , more than enough in most towns . So , in conclusion , you can get a mortgage of just over 3X your income and stay within the guidelines if you put that nice downpayment . I am a fan of only going 2X , a $ 135K mortgage . Update - The rates are lower , in 2013 we still see the 30 year as low as 4 % . The same $ 1074 payment will support a $ 225K loan .
end question
start question
How do I figure out the market value of used books ?
Half of original MSRP at Amazon is a good option for books that are in good condition . Another option would be to use eBay , specifically <URL> .
Yes , only if the sell order quantity available at $ 55 is greater than or equal to the quantity of the market order you entered , and that sell order is not an " All or None " order . If you submitted a market order to buy 100 shares , and there are 30 shares available at $ 55 and 70 shares available at $ 60 , your order will be filled at two different prices , resulting in a weighted average of $ 58.5 to you .
If you are using T-mobile you do n't have to put $ 100 in each year to keep your minutes for a year . Once you spend $ 100 you get a year with any additional minutes you buy . Buying them $ 100 at a time is the cheapest way - but when you renew you can renew with only $ 50 or $ 30 and you have a year to use them from the last time you bought . I did this this year - only put $ 50 on each phone because we do n't use $ 100 worth in a year .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
If the bonds are in a safe deposit box which is not rented to you and to which you do not possess the key anyway , and you do not have a letter or other document from your grandmother in your possession saying that she has given you the bonds ( which you can collect from a safe deposit box in Bank X in City Y in State Z ) , you are SOL . The bonds are part of her estate and do not belong to you . I doubt that any bank or even the Treasury will cash bonds registered in your grandmother 's name knowing only the numbers , or even the actual bonds themselves , unless you have a letter in your possession from your grandmother saying that she has gifted the bonds to you . You might be able to follow the procedure for replacing lost US Savings Bonds if you have a letter and the bond numbers , but now we are getting into legal details that are inappropriate for this forum . I do n't like to say this , but your story does not pass the smell test . In view of the revised question , I would say that @DJClayworth 's comment on the main question is probably the best course to pursue . You could try looking at Form PD F 1048 ( available through the TreasuryDirect web site ) which allows you to ask the Bureau of Public Debt to re-issue lost or destroyed bonds . But the Form may ask you to affirm under penalty of perjury that all the statements you make on the form are true , and you have stated that the bonds are neither lost nor destroyed , just inconvenient to retrieve , and you do n't really need the bonds to be replaced for the purpose of holding them as investments , possibly in your personal safe deposit box , but to cash them in .
I can think of a few simple and quick techniques for timing the market over the long term , and they can be used individually or in combination with each other . There are also some additional techniques to give early warning of possible turns in the market . The first is using a Moving Average ( MA ) as an indication of when to sell . Simply if the price closes below the MA it is time to sell . Obviously if the period you are looking at is long term you would probably use a weekly or even monthly chart and use a relatively large period MA such as a 50 week or 100 week moving average . The longer the period the more the MA will lag behind the price but the less false signals and whipsawing there will be . As we are looking long term ( 5 years + ) I would use a weekly chart with a 100 week Exponential MA . The second technique is using a Rate Of Change ( ROC ) Indicator , which is a momentum indicator . The idea for timing the markets in the long term is to buy when the indicator crosses above the zero line and sell when it crosses below the zero line . For long term investing I would use a 13 week EMA of the 52 week ROC ( the EMA smooths out the ROC indicator to reduce the chance of false signals ) . The beauty of these two indicators is they can be used effectively together . Below are examples of using these two indicators in combination on the S&amp;P 500 and the Australian S&amp;P ASX200 over the past 20 years . S&amp;P 500 1995 to 2015 ASX200 1995 to 2015 If I was investing in an ETF tracking one of these indexes I would use these two indicators together by using the MA as an early warning system and maybe tighten any stop losses I have so that if the market takes a sudden turn downward the majority of my profits would be protected . I would then use the ROC Indicator to sell out completely out of the ETF when it crosses below zero or to buy back in when the ROC moves back above zero . As you can see in both charts the two indicators would have kept you out of the market during the worst of the downfalls in 2000 and 2008 for the S&amp;P 500 and 2008 for the ASX200 . If there is a false signal that gets you out of the market you can quite easily get back in if the indicator goes back above zero . Using these indicators you would have gotten into the market 3 times and out of it twice for the S&amp;P 500 over a 20 year period . For the ASX200 you would have gone in 6 times and out 5 times , also over a 20 year period . For individual shares I would use the ROC indicator over the main index the shares belong to , to give an indication of when to be buying individual stocks and when to tighten stop losses and stay on the sidelines . My philosophy is to buy rising stocks in a rising market and sell falling stocks in a falling market . So if the ROC indicator is above zero I would be looking to buy fundamentally healthy stocks that are up-trending and place a 20 % trailing stop loss on them . If I get stopped out of one stock then I would look to replace it with another as long as the ROC is still above zero . If the ROC indicator crosses below zero I would tighten my trailing stop losses to 5 % and not buy any new stocks once I get stopped out . Some additional indicators I would use for individual stock would be trend lines and using the MACD as a momentum indicator . These two indicators can give you further early warning that the stock may be about to reverse from its current trend , so you can tighten your stop loss even if the ROC is still above zero . Here is an example chart to explain : GEM.AX 3 Year Weekly Chart Basically if the price closes below the trend line it may be time to close out the position or at the very least tighten up your trailing stop loss to 5 % . If the price breaks below an established uptrend line it may well be the end of the uptrend . The definition of an uptrend is higher highs and higher lows . As GEM has broken below the uptrend line and has maid a lower low , all that is needed to confirm the uptrend is over is a lower high . But months before the price broke below the uptrend line , the MACD momentum indicator was showing bearish divergence between it and the price . In early September 2014 the price made a higher high but the MACD made a lower high . This is called a bearish divergence and is an early warning signal that the momentum in the uptrend is weakening and the trend could be reversing soon . Notice I said could and not would . In this situation I would reduce my trailing stop to 10 % and keep a watchful eye on this stock over the coming months . There are many other indicators that could be used as signals or as early warnings , but I thought I would talk about some of my favourites and ones I use on a daily and weekly basis . If you were to employ any of these techniques into your investing or trading it may take a little while to learn about them properly and to implement them into your trading plan , but once you have done that you would only need to spend 1 to 2 hours per week managing your portfo
To fairly compare a comp-only job to a job that offers insurance , get a quote for health insurance . Call your local insurance broker and find out what it would cost . Because if you are n't getting insurance from your employer , you 'll have to get it elsewhere . If you get a quote on an HSA , do n't forget to add in the annual deductible as part of the cost . On the ESPP , I 'd count it as zero . The rationale being that so much of your financial status is tied to your employer that you do n't really want to tie up too much more in company stock . ( I.e. Company hits hard times , stock tanks , and then they lay you off . Double whammy -- both your assets and income . ) But given that I 've only been employed by companies that no longer exist in their original form , my perspective may be warped .
" As-is " means that no matter what the inspector finds the seller will not delay closing , repair , or provide money/discount to repair . If you want to go this route then yes you need a complete inspection by a trained and certified home inspector . No matter what they find , big or small , you will then have the opportunity to walk away . If they find small things , then it is up to you . If they find any big things or open ended things then you will likely walk away . Do n't let the seller , their agent , or your agent try and talk you out of the inspection . Despite the claim as " as-is " many jurisdiction also require the seller to disclose all known material defect as a part of the listing and other related documents . So if they spent $ 5,000 covering up the evidence of the leak that will cost $ 20,000 they have to tell you . If it is discovered soon after you move in , you still may be able to take them to court . But you will need that inspection report to show that you tried to find all the defects . Why does the seller go the " as-is " route ? Some have something to hide . Others just want to speed the transaction along . If the defects are small , and you are able to handle the repairs yourself , then settlement can proceeded quickly . But if you insist on a new roof , then they have to schedule it and it can delay thing for weeks . Many times the seller is offering the house at a discount already and does n't want to reduce the money even further .
Several things to do : Change your bank . $ 2 for a check ? Why ?? When shopping for a new bank : ask for a free checking account . College students can get free checking in almost any bank . At least the first box of checks will be free , which will give you enough checks for the next several years ( I 'm still not half done with the box I got from WaMu 5 years ago ) . Check out your neighborhood credit union . Most of them have free checking and free checks for students as well . If still no luck - check online check printing services , they 'll send you a box for less than $ 25 , that 's for sure . <URL> for example ( 1 box - $ 7 ) . Also , you can use banks ' bill-pay service for any check you write , if you know the address of the person , the amount and the sum a couple of days ahead of time . That should cover rent , and probably most of your other checks .
From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increases , economies that are oil dependent become more favourable ( oil companies will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investors will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
It 's a form of debt issued by the United States Treasury . As the name implies , a 10-year note is held for 10 years ( after which you get the face value in cash ) , and it pays interest twice per year . It 's being used in the calculator to stand for a readily available , medium-term , nearly risk-free investment , as a means of " discounting " the value that the company gains . The explanation for why the discounting is done can be found on the page you linked . As a Canadian you could use the yield of comparable Canadian treasury securities as quoted by Bank of Canada ( which seem to have had the bottom fall out since the new year ) , although I do n't suppose American notes would be hard for a Canadian investor to come by , so if you wanted to be conservative you could use the US figure as long as it 's higher .
I would say a diversified conservative balanced fund ( perhaps 80 % bonds , the rest equities ) . This historically keeps up with inflation , though in the short term it can definitely fluctuate downward some years . The more diversification the better , say into international stocks and other major asset classes . The 80/20 average historical annual return is 6.7 % nominal ( before inflation ) , which is higher than historical inflation : <URL> Bonds alone would generally be less reliable than bonds plus 10-20 % in stocks . You may be able to go as much as 90 % bonds if the goal is absolute minimum risk . I 've read in more than one place that 100 % bonds averages lower returns with more risk than 90/10 , so 100 % bonds would be an inferior option historically , compared to diversifying just a bit into equities . You could argue that TIPS ( or other inflation-indexed bonds ) are the guaranteed way to beat inflation with no additional risk . I would personally feel more comfortable with a balanced portfolio diversified across thousands of stocks and bonds around the world : TIPS are country-specific , and however remote the chances , there are probably risk factors unique to US government securities while I do n't subscribe to conspiracy theories about the consumer price index ( CPI ) , it is in some ways arbitrary and its definition of inflation may not line up with your actual expenses ; a diversified portfolio avoids " inflation definition risk " a bit more perhaps because an 80/20 portfolio does a little better than inflation historically , maybe you have some more margin for error You can always keep some money in cash or near-cash ( very short-term bonds ) , in addition to the balanced portfolio , to lower risk and returns down to the desired point . Commodities and metals often come up when talking about inflation risk ; the problem is that these are so volatile , you 'll have big timing problems - if you buy at a wrong ( too high ) time you could wait decades to get your principal back . So I do n't think these make sense for the goal you described . See also <URL>
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
It 's not compound interest . It is internal rate of return . If you have access to Excel look up the XIRR built-in function .
If the cash flow information is complete , the valuation can be determined with relative accuracy and precision . Assuming the monthly rent is correct , the annual revenue is $ 1,600 per year , $ 250/mo * 12 months - $ 1,400 / year in taxes . Real estate is best valued as a perpetuity where is the price , is the income , and is the rate of interest . Theoreticians would suggest that the best available rate of interest would be the risk free rate , a 30 year Treasury rate ~ 3.5 % , but the competition ca n't get these rates , so it is probably unrealistic . Anways , aassuming no expenses , the value of the property is $ 1,600 / 0.035 at most , $ 45,714.29 . This is the general formula , and it should definitely be adjusted for expenses and a more realistic interest rate . Now , with a better understanding of interest rates and expenses , this will predict the most likely market value ; however , it should be known that whatever interest rate is applied to the formula will be the most likely rate of return received from the investment . A Graham-Buffett value investor would suggest using a valuation no less than 15 % since to a value investor , there 's no point in bidding unless if the profits can be above average , ~ 7.5 % . With a 15 % interest rate and no expenses , $ 1,600 / .15 , is $ 10,666.67 . On average , it is unlikely that a bid this low will be successful ; nevertheless , if multiple bids are placed using this similar methodology , by the law of small numbers , it is likely to hit the lottery on at most one bid .
There 's a lot of hype about HFT . It involves computers doing things that people do n't really understand and making a bunch of rich guys a bunch of money , and there was a crisis and so we hate rich wall street guys this year , and so it 's a hot-button issue . Meh . There 's some reason for concern about the safety of the markets , but I think there 's also a lot more of people trying to sell you a newspaper . Remember that while HFT may mean there are a lot of trades , the buying and the selling add up to the same thing . Meanwhile , people who buy stock to hold on to it for significant periods of time will still affect the quantity of stock out there on the market , applying pressure to the price , buying and selling at the prices that they think the security is worth . As a result , it 's unlikely that high-frequency trading moves the stock price very far from the price that the rest of the market would determine for very long ; if it did , the lower-frequency traders could take advantage of it , buying if it 's too low and selling if it 's too high . How long do you plan to hold a stock ? If you 're trying to do day-trading , you might have some trouble ; these people are competing with you to do the same thing , and have significant resources at their disposal . If you 're holding onto your stock for years on end ( like you probably should be doing with most stock ) then a trivial premium or discount on the price probably is n't going to be a big deal for you .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
end question
start question
Is this mortgage advice good , or is it hooey ?
" add the interest for the next 5 payments and divide that by how much you paid on the principal during that time " Let 's see - on a $ 200K 6 % loan , the first 5 months is $ 4869 . Principal reduction is $ 1127 . I get 4.32 or 432 % . But this is nonsense , you divide the interest over the mortgage balance , and get 6 % . You only get those crazy numbers by dividing meaningless ratios . The fact that early on in a mortgage most of the payment goes to interest is a simple fact of the the 30 year nature of amortizing . You are in control , just add extra principal to the payment , if you wish . This idea sounds like the Money Merge Account peddled by UFirst . It 's a scam if ever there was one . I wrote about it extensively on my site and have <URL> . Once you get to this page , the first link is for a free spreadsheet to download , it beats MMA every time and shows how prepaying works , no smoke , no mirrors . The second link is a 65 page PDF that compiles nearly all my writing on this topic as I was one of the finance bloggers doing what I could to expose this scam . I admit it became a crusade , I went as far as buying key word ads on google to attract the search for " money merge account " only to help those looking to buy it find the truth . In the end , I spent a few hundred dollars but saved every visitor the $ 3500 loss of this program . No agent who dialoged with me in public could answer my questions in full , as they fell back on " you need to believe in it . " I have no issue with faith-based religion , it actually stands to reason , but mortgages are numbers and there 's order to them . If you want my $ 3500 , you should know how your system works . Not one does , or they would know it was a scam . Nassim Taleb , author of " The Black Swan " offered up a wonderful quote , " if you see fraud , and do not say ' fraud , ' you are a fraud . " The site you link to is n't selling a product , but a fraudulent idea . What 's most disturbing to me is that the math to disprove his assertion is not complex , not beyond grade school arithmetic . Update 2015 - The linked " rule of thumb " is still there . Still wrong of course . Another scam selling software to do this is now promoted by a spin off of UFirst , called Worth Unlimited . Same scam , new name .
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
I had a joint account at Chase , and each of us had own on-line login , and could access the account ( each of us also had non-joint accounts in Chase , and with the same login we already had we could access the joint accounts , but not the other 's non-joint accounts ) . It seems like your bank is really backwards on this , change the bank . By the way , in joint accounts you have the option of requiring both partners to sign on every document , so that every check or order you write will only be valid with both of your signatures . I do n't know if that 's what you need , but some may want that ( it is quite uncomfortable , IMHO ) .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
I had n't heard of it , but it looks legitimate to me . In the fine print on the product description page , it mentions that the account is backed by Radius Bank , which is a real <URL> ( so it 's at least not transparently a scam ) . One caveat to note in the fine print on the product page you link to is that the 1.00 % APY applies only to balances over $ 2500 , but it does apply to the whole balance in that case , not just the excess amount . For lower-value accounts , the APY is 0.25 % . For comparison , I 'm currently getting 0.75 % in my Capital One 360 savings account and 0.20 % in checking . The US dollar 1-month <URL> * is 0.19700 % , and 1-year is 0.93260 % , as of 2015-11-13 . So the rates are very good but not ridiculous : in my humble assessment , they 're probably not making much profit on them , but they 're not taking much of a loss , either . The structure of the outright fees seems in line with what the good deals from other banks often look like . The above assessment ( interest rates are priced roughly " at cost " ) seems consistent with their philosophy as described on their website . See , for example , <URL> in their FAQ : We work for tips . The only money we make is what you decide to pay us . We let you choose an amount from $ 0 to $ 6 a month when you first sign up for an account and you can change it any time . You get charged on a monthly basis at whatever level you 've chosen on the last day of the month . We 've designed it so that you 're under no legal obligation to pay us . However , having worked hard to create and operate the Aspiration Summit Account for you , we hope we can count on you ! Fair enough , but be careful about how generous you get with the tips ! Six dollars a month on a $ 2500 balance is 6 / 2500 * 12 = 2.88 % per year , a significant fee in bank-world . So , in conclusion : Be aware that the 1 % APY applies only if you keep a balance over $ 2500 . The interest rates and fees are a good deal , but not so far out of line with the market so as to arouse suspicion . They appear to run their main operation " at cost , " and earn their profit on a " pay what you think is fair " model . Be aware that the tips can be deceptively high . * LIBOR is the London interbank offered rate , a measure of what interest big banks charge each other . " 1-month " and " 1-year " refer to the interest rates for loans the banks will pay back in one month and one year , respectively .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
Assuming no constraints on how much you can move ( or how frequently ) into and out of your offset mortgage account , the question becomes one of what rate of return you expect from your long-term savings/emergency cash fund . The rate you are getting from the offset mortgage account is known ; since it reduces the principal amount owing and thus reduces interest charges , the return is the mortgage rate ( though I would not be surprised if the offset mortgage account contract has bells and whistles reducing the effective rate , saying something like 3 pounds reduction of principal for every 5 pounds you put in ) . So , as a movie character once said , " Do you feel lucky today ? " If so , move money from your offset mortgage account to savings , and earn more . If not , move money in the opposite direction . A " guaranteed " 2 % return on the offset mortgage account might be better than taking a risk on the vagaries of the stock market , and even the possibility of loss in your long term savings account .
It 's complicated and if you have to deal with this professionally , you should seek advice from someone ( accountant/lawyer ) who knows the system . There is such a thing as a 0 % VAT rate ( but not in every EU country ) . If you are selling goods taxed at 0 % , you are entitled to reclaim the VAT you paid on your supplies and have to keep track of it accordingly . <URL> in the UK . There is also such a thing as being VAT-exempt . In that case , there is usually some other specific legal mention to include on all invoices . If your whole business is outside the VAT system ( e.g. very small businesses and non-profit organisations ) , you do not itemize it on your own invoices , pay VAT on your supplies and can not reclaim it . If you sell goods to such a business , you charge them VAT just like you would in a transaction with a private person . So both exist and are distinct .
I would guess that before the spin-off , more money would be available In my experience the reverse is true . The finance folks go into overdrive tightening everything up so that budget forecasts for the transition period are as accurate and predictable as possible . This can be true 6 months out , 12 months out , etc - depending on the size and complexity of the business . So in terms of when to renegotiate , I think approaching the issue after the dust has settled is more realistic . Make sure you know your numbers as per normal and just remember that after the spin-off has occurred it 's a business like any other business : if you are in position to negotiate ( and reasonably expect ) a raise then the fact that they spun off recently - a month or two before - is meaningless to the negotiation .
The general answer is : " it depends on how long you want to live there " . Here is a good calculator to figure it out : <URL> Basically , if you plan to move in a few years , then renting makes more sense . It is a lot easier to move from an apartment when your lease is up versus selling a house , which can be subject to fluctuations in the real-estate market . As an example , during the real estate bubble , a lot of " young professional " types bought condos and town homes instead of renting . Now these people are married with kids , need to move somewhere bigger , but they ca n't get rid of their old place because they ca n't sell it for what they still owe . If these people had rented for a few years , they would be in a better position financially . ( Many people fell for the mantra " If you are renting , you are throwing your money away " , without looking at the long-term implications . ) However , your question is a little unique , because you mentioned renting for the rest of your life , and putting the savings into an investment , which is a cool idea . ( Thinking outside the box , I like it . ) I 'm going to assume you mean " rent the same place for many years " versus " moving around the country every few years " . If you are staying in one place for a long time , I am going to say that buying a house is probably a better option . Here 's why : With a mortgage , at some point you stop sending a check every month . With rent , the payments never stop . At the end of the mortgage , you have an asset that is worth a lot of money ( your house ) . You can sell it and travel the world , give it to your kids , etc. . ( EDIT : With the rent + invest approach , you would have your investment portfolio as a sizable asset . It is open to discussion which one would come out ahead . ) With a mortgage , your payments are a fixed amount ( unless you have an ARM ) . Inflation drives prices up over time , but your mortgage payment stays the same . In fact , inflation helps the homeowner by making the last mortgage payment " cheaper " than the first one . Rent prices tend to keep pace with inflation . Your landlord will probably increase the rent periodically . There are tax advantages to buying a house ( in the US anyway ) . Your mortgage interest is a tax deduction . There are also tax credits for certain home improvements ( e.g. installing an energy efficient A/C ) . You ca n't take advantage of these when you rent . Over the long term , home prices do go up ( population is increasing , but there is a finite amount of land ) . I am not saying the house is a good " investment " , but its value normally wo n't evaporate over 30 years like some other assets would . In terms of inflation-adjusted dollars , your house should maintain similar " value " over the years , as long as you stay on top of the upkeep ( and your neighborhood does n't become run-down ) . With a mortgage , you are paying interest to a bank , which some would consider to be a " black hole " just like rent . However , you can reduce the money you pay in interest by making extra mortgage payments . Making 1-2 extra payments at the start of your mortgage can save a huge sum of money over the life of the loan . So what about investing ? Let 's look at some numbers : Investing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average would give you ~ 9 % per year , with a lot of volatility ( <URL> ) . Mortgage rates are hovering at about 5 % right now . ( <URL> ) Seems like a good idea to invest , instead of taking out a mortgage , right ? Now , add in an inflation rate of ~ 3 % ( <URL> ) Inflation erodes the effective stock market return , but it helps your mortgage payment by effectively making it cost less over time . Next think about taxes . That 9 % stock market return is taxable income ( which eats into your effective return ) , whereas the mortgage interest is a tax deduction . Inflation and taxes pretty much negate higher rate of return for the stock investment . Additionally , you have the inflationary impacts of a rent payment that increases over time . So , based on the above , I say that buying a house is the way to go ( as long as you plan to live in the same place for several years ) . However , if you could find a better investment than the Dow , or if mortgage interest rates change drastically , things could tip in another direction . Addendum : CrimsonX brought up a good point about the costs of owning a house ( upkeep and property taxes ) , which I did n't mention above . However , I do n't think they change my answer . If you rent , you are still paying those costs . They are just hidden from you . Your landlord pays the contractor or the tax man , and then you pay the landlord as part of your rent .
If by " Company Stock " you mean " stock in the company I work for " then absolutely sell your stock . It is too big a risk to have your investments tied into the same company that is also providing your salary . If you mean stock as in general investments , I like to look at it this way . If you have $ 25,000 stock and a $ 100,000 mortgage you ask this question : If I had a $ 75,000 mortgage would I borrow an additional $ 25,000 against my house to invest in the stock market ? If the answer is yes , then you are taking a risk consistent with your tolerance for risk . If you answer no , then your tolerance for risk says you 'd be happier paying down your mortgage .
Think about who are they protecting : only themselves . Just like mortgage insurance , you pay the premium so in case you ca n't pay your bill , they still get to cash in the policy . Upside , you do n't owe them money when you ca n't pay . Downside , you more or less paid them . If you get hurt , ca n't work and ca n't pay your bills the best option for you is to call your creditors and try to arrange something specific to the situation . But only when it happens . If things go completely wrong , or there is a debt attributed to you that is n't really yours , you have the option to not pay them . So my opinion is why pay for insurance for them , let the bank pay their own premiums .
I do n't know personally , but a few minutes spent on Google seem to indicate that such transactions are considered cash advances . I found a thread at fatwallet which states that <URL> . If you want to research it yourself , I used the following search terms : . You could probably narrow down the search results by using as the query .
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
A good faith estimate ( GFE ) is just that - an estimate . The Department of Urban Development made a GFE a requirement by law for loan applications to enable the buyer to compare among lenders . Furthermore , a GFE is a legally binding document with zero tolerance for some fees like origination charges and lender fees . This means that any change in these fees must be covered by the lender . Some other fees , like title insurance policies , have a 10 % tolerance , so they can increase by up to 10 % , but if they increase more than that , then the lender is liable for the surplus . However , rates are time sensitive . This means that the rate you are quoted on the GFE , albeit legally binding , may last for only a second or a very short period of time . Although many quoted rates end up being accurate , there is no legal guarantee to do so . So I highly suggest you get an official lock-in document to get the agreement on paper . Even if your lender has good intentions and believes the extra rate lock is unnecessary , get it anyways . A GFE 's rate quote is not final , and you can only help yourself by getting a letter of commitment that guarantees your rate .
It depends on whether you 're paying for health care with taxable income . If you are making $ 60K but spend $ 10K on health care , you do n't want to have to pay taxes on the $ 10K . Under current U.S. law , I believe , employer-provided health insurance is exempt from taxes , whether paid for by the employer or by the employee . So in that case it 's a wash . But if the second employer did not offer health insurance , and you spent $ 10K on a personal insurance plan , that $ 10K would be taxable income . You 'd pay taxes on $ 60K but only net $ 50K after health insurance . In that case , the first employer is offering a better deal .
It sounds like the two best options would be to <URL> or <URL> . If there is n't much money in your SIMPLE IRA , it might make more sense to just roll it over into your 401 ( k ) so you have fewer retirement accounts to keep track of . However , if you do have a significant amount of money in the SIMPLE IRA then you may wish to take advantage of the greater freedom in investment options that IRAs offer over most 401 ( k ) plans . Keep in mind the 2-year rule for SIMPLE IRAs . You will face tax penalties if you roll it and it has n't yet been 2 years since the SIMPLE IRA was opened .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
From a financial point of view , getting a 2-3 year old car with full service history ( and obviously in good condition and well looked after ) and driving it until it falls apart makes the most sense . That way , you avoid the steepest part of the depreciation curve ( ie , when you drive it off the lot ) and you should end up with something that 'll last you for a decade or longer if you keep up the maintenance . Either car - if bought new or used - will go wrong at some point , especially if they 're not looked after properly . Regular maintenance is one of the most important , if not the most important factor in keeping a vehicle reliable .
end question
start question
What do I need to know before opening a line of credit ?
It will either appear as a new revolving account or not appear at all until you use it . The main impact will likely be the initial hard-pull when you apply , and it will wear off in several months .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
As @duffbeer703 mentioned , it really depends on the type of loan . But you might not know what type of loan you will eligible for : unsecured versus secured ? personal versus debt consolidation ? line of credit versus home improvement ? You WILL know whether you are applying for boat loan versus a home mortgage though ! What will help your chances of being approved ? If possible , make an appointment in advance with a loan officer ! That 's better than just walking in . ( It might increase your chances of being perceived as a responsible , valued bank customer . ) Focus on the purpose of the loan . Let the bank representative tell you what your options are . If you are told that you do n't qualify , ask if there is something else that they could suggest . It might mean paying a higher rate of interest , or using some other asset or account as collateral for a secured loan . It is up to you whether you want to do that . Depends on your situation , urgency of need , trade-off 's . Documents to bring with Start by looking at the bank 's website . See if there are any suggestions there , for document req 's . If that is n't helpful , call on the telephone . Say that you want to speak to a loan officer . Mention any accounts or other existing relationship you have with the bank . Then describe as best you can what type of loan you want , the purpose ( to buy a house , boat , car , repay student loans at lower interest rate etc ) . You 'll need some combination of the following : Proof of ID which in the United States , ( was in the question tag ) , would be a picture ID . A driver 's license or state ID card is good . If you do n't have those , then a U.S. Passport or military ID . Social security number ( but not necessarily the card ) Prior year 's tax returns , other financial account statements ( or account numbers if with the same bank ) Pay stubs or something that shows income . Also , when you make the appointment or call , you may be told to bring title on property , vehicle , credit card statement , student loan docs . It all depends on the type of loan . Good luck , hope you get what you want !
Does it make any sense to open another account , just to get the cash back ? This depends on several things , primarily how much you spend on your card . Work out the math . If you spend $ 100 a month , then you would only be getting $ 1.00 a month back , which would n't be worth having the new card . Also , if you are taking any penalties for being late , you 're better off cutting the credit cards all together . Interest ( often at 15 % or more ) will quickly outpace any money you would be getting back . Would it be smart to cancel the Visa if I do ? If you can use the new card everywhere , yes . This prevents you from possible non-usage charges , the paperwork associated with the card , and possible card misuse .
The form is just for your records . You do not need to adjust your tax return . From the article " <URL> " : Form 5498 : IRA Contributions Information reports your IRA contributions to the IRS . Your IRA trustee or issuer -- not you -- is required to file this form with the IRS by May 31 . You wo n't find this form in TurboTax , nor do you file it with your tax return . The copy you receive in the mail is a copy for your records . It 's a good idea to verify that the amount reported on the form ( box 1 ) matches what you actually contributed .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
In the 24 years I have been a homeowner , only the period of 1999 to 2006 saw big increases in home prices . For most of the rest of the time there were either small increases , no increases , or big drops as bubbles burst . Yet overall the direction of the value of the houses has been positive . There can be 5 year periods where every house goes up in value regardless of your location . There can be 5 year periods where every house loses value regardless of your location . The past is no guarantee of what will happen in the future . In fact the past can be vastly different from the future . A history of growth may mean that it will continue or it may mean nothing . You need to pick a house that meets your needs ( size , style , price , location to import things ) and hope for the best . Halfway though the last bubble people made good decisions , and saw the value continue to rise for several more years . When the bubble burst they were still in good shape for several more years . Until they need to sell . Then they realized they could n't sell when they wanted . They were still going to make money but it would take months to sell , not days . That is the biggest risk . That you ca n't sell when you want .
I recently came across bitcoin , it is what I was really looking for at the time .
A secured line of credit yields a lower interest rate because if you default on it , the lender simply has you on the hook with whatever you used to secure the line of credit . i.e. if you have a HELOC and you default , they 'll foreclose on you and take your house . An unsecured line of credit does n't have the same type of clout for taking your stuff . In short , a secured line of credit has a lower interest rate because it 's higher risk for you and lower risk for the lender .
This entirely depends on the individual store 's policies . In general , stores are not required to accept returns at all . So when they do accept returns , they can put any conditions they want on them . In the past , the original receipt was the only record of a sale . When you returned the item , they would write on the original receipt , so that it could not be used again to return the same item . They would not accept photocopies ( or digital pictures ) because there was no way to validate them . Many stores now keep a complete record of every sale in a database . Those stores do n't need an original receipt . They can simply look up the number from your photo of the receipt and validate it . Once you return the item , the receipt is marked in the database so that it can not be used for a return again . Not every store allows this , however . You 'll need to ask the stores you shop at to find out what their return policies are .
Some banks ( Chase bank is one of them ) do differentiate between " credit limit " and " credit access line " . A " credit limit " is a hard limit which you can not go over , whereas a " credit access line " is the maximum amount you can revolve between statements , but you can still charge more than your access limit in any one statement . For example , if your credit limit is $ 5,000 , and you have charged $ 4,995 in a billing cycle , and now try to buy something for $ 6 , it will be declined . But if your credit access line is $ 5,000 , that same $ 6 charge would go through . Perhaps charges of $ 500 over your limit might go through as well . When it comes time to pay your bill , your minimum payment will be all overages plus your normal minimum payment as if your credit was completely maxed out . Pros : You can overspend in a month if you need to . Cons : If you are close to maxed out and are carrying a balance each month , your minimum payment could be higher than you are used to . Most banks do n't tell you what your true hard limit actually is , so once you are over the limit you never actually know if your card is going to be denied or not .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
You may want to start a company for a few reasons , the main one would be liability , you do n't want your friend to drop a weight on a foot and sue you for millions taking your house away . You 'd need to pay taxes on the income , that 's after you pay all your expenses , bills , mortgage interest , insurance premiums ( ! ) , equipment depreciation . So it 's going to be a lot less than you collect from your friends . Whether you incorporate or not you have to pay taxes on your income . If it 's $ 200/year IRS may not notice that , if it 's $ 20K a month it would be very hard to hide . If you pay your friends more than some amount ( check the laws ) you 'd need to tell IRS about it ( issue 1099-misc ) , then your friends must pay taxes on that income .
All bonds carry a risk of default , which means that it 's possible that you can lose your principal investment in addition to potentially not getting the interest payments that you expect . Bonds ( in the US anyway ) are graded , so you can manage this risk somewhat by taking higher quality bonds , i.e. in companies or governments that are considered more creditworthy . Regular bank savings ( again specific to the US ) are insured by FDIC , so even if your bank goes bust , the US Government is backing them up to some limit . That makes such accounts less risky . There 's generally no insurance on a bond , even if it is issued by a government entity . If you do your homework on the bond rating system and choose bonds in a rating band where you 're comfortable , this could be a good option for you . You 'll find , however , that the bond market also " knows " that the interest rates are generally low , so be ware that higher interest issues are usually coming from less creditworthy ( and therefore more risky ) issuers . EDIT Here 's some additional information based on the follow-up question in the comment . When you buy a bond you are actually making a loan to the issuer . They will pay you interest over the lifetime of the bond and then return your principal at the end of the term . ( Verify this payment schedule - This is typical , but you should be sure that whatever you 're buying works like this . ) This is not an investment in the value of the issuer itself like you would be making if you bought stock . With stock you are taking an ownership share in the company . This might entitle you to dividends if the company pays them , but otherwise your investment value on a stock will be tied to the performance of the company . With the bond , the company might be in decline but the bond still a good investment so long as the company does n't decline so much that they can not pay their debts . Also , bonds can be issued by governments , but governments do not sell stock . ( An " ownership share of the government " would not make sense . ) This may be the so-called sovereign debt if issued by a sovereign government or it may be local ( we call it municipal here in the US ) debt issued by a subordinate level of government . Bonds are a little bit like stock in the sense that there 's a secondary market for them . That means that if you get partway through the length of the bond and do n't want to hold it , you can sell the bond to someone else . Of course , it will be harder to sell a bond later if the company becomes insolvent or if the interest rates go up between when you buy and when you sell . Depending on these market factors , you might end up with a capital gain or capital loss ( meaning you get more or less than the principal that you put into the bond ) at the time of a sale .
If you are on the receiving end , you will not need to provide any information to your bank . Wire transfers are initiated by the sending party . If you are sending a wire transfer , you will need to provide the following information about the recipient : ABA/Routing number of the receiving bank Name/address/phone number of the receiving bank Recipient 's bank account number Recipient 's name ( as listed on the account ) Recipient 's address ( as listed on the account ) If you need to give this information to a company so they can send you a wire , this is the information you should provide for them . Domestic wire transfers do n't require SWIFT/IBAN .
I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it is going to take 15 years to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to paying down debt . Cut expenses by going out to eat less , and keeping spending to the bare necessities . You might even consider getting a second job , just for paying down the debt . If that is n't enough , consider selling off some assets . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( excluding maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 years . Once the only debt you have is a home mortgage , then its time to look at putting money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The costs for doing so are nearly always too great .
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
Your coworker is mistaken . A higher credit line is fine especially if you have zero balance . If you happen to carry a balance at the time of mortgage application , then a higher credit line will mean you have a lower utilization . A lower utilization will mean that your credit score will be better than if you had a higher utilization . I know someone who just got a mortgage for 3.65 % with a DTI of 41 % , one late payment from two years ago and a short sale on their credit report . With what you are telling us , your mortgage application should not be a problem . Ensure you have adequate reserves ( 3-6 months of income ) either in your bank account or 401k .
Form 8843 is not an income tax return . I do n't think you need to file an amendment .
People treat an emergency fund as some kind of ace-in-the-hole when it comes to financial difficulty , but it is only one of many sources of money that you can utilize . What is an emergency ? First , you have to define what an emergency is . Is it a lost job ? Is it an unplanned event ( pregnancy , perhaps ) ? Is it a medical emergency ? Is it the death of you or your spouse ? Also , what does it mean to be unplanned ? Is being so unhappy with your job that you give a 2-week notice an emergency ? Is one month of planning an emergency ? Two ? Only you can answer these questions for yourself , but they significantly shape your financial strategy . Planning is highly dependent on your cashflow , and , for some people , it may take them a year to build enough savings to enable them to take 3 months off work . For others , they may be able to change their spending to build up enough for 3 months in 1 month . Also , you have to consider the length of the emergency . Job-loss is rarely permanent , but it 's rarely short as well . <URL> is 30.7 weeks : that 's 7 months ! Money in an Emergency There are six main places that people get money during a financial emergency : Savings accounts ( included in this is CDs or other guaranteed financial instruments ) Investment accounts ( stocks , bonds , etc. ) Secured debt ( Equity loan ) Unsecured debt ( credit cards , LoC ) Insurance Supplemental income ( Social security , unemployment , side job ) A good emergency strategy takes all six of these into account . Some emergencies may lean more on one source than the other . However , some of these are correlated . For example , in 2008 , three things happened : the stock market crashed , unsecured debt dried up , and people faced financial emergency ( lost jobs , cut wages ) . If you were dependent on a stock portfolio and/or a line of credit , you 'd be up a creek , because the value of your investments suddenly decreased , and you ca n't really tap your now significantly limited line of credit . However , if you had a one or more of cash savings , unemployment income , and unemployment insurance , you would probably have been OK . Budgeting for an emergency When you say " financial emergency " , most people think job loss . However , <URL> . Depending on your insurance situation , this could be a serious risk , or it may not be . People say you should have 3x-6x of your monthly income in savings because it 's an easy , back-of-the-envelope way to handle most financial emergency risk , but it 's not necessarily the most prudent strategy for you . To properly budget for an emergency , you need to fully take into account what emergencies you are likely to face , and what sources of financing you would have access to given the likely factors that led to that emergency . Generally , having a savings account with some amount of liquid cash is an important part of a risk-mitigation strategy . But it 's not a panacea for every kind of emergency .
end question
start question
When to find a real-estate agent for buying a first home ?
I would say ASAP . I have recently been in your situation ( first-time home buyer ) so here 's our experience : We got an agent from the start . We started to look in August , aiming to close around end of the year , and ended up closing in December . We had a month period in the middle where we were not looking but otherwise almost all that time was spent looking so 3 months is definitely not too much time . We did skip some good options in the first weeks since we felt we did not see enough and do n't want to buy just yet . Looking back at it it probably was a mistake ( one looked like a really good deal , though I 'm not sure we would end up getting it , but if I knew what I know now I probably would have not passed on it ) . We could probably be more prepared if we did some stand-alone research - like just going to open houses , etc. but we did n't . However , that was one-of-a-kind deal and then we did n't see anything we liked for quite some time . We chose agent basing on the advice of friends who recently worked with them and we did not regret the decision . I think this is the best way to choose - it 's virtually impossible to distinguish good agent from bad one until you invest some time with them and since you have only 3 month wasting a month on a bad agent might put you in time-constrained situation . So solicit references from everyone you know and talk to agents that make their clients happy :) Now for what the agent does . Our agent helped us first with choosing the areas we want to look in , set up the searches . Then they helped us to plan visits ( we mostly did it on weekends , and looked 5-10 houses each time , so took some planning to organize ) , arrange it with seller agents and homeowners , getting keys for houses that are n't occupied , etc. . When we started doing offers , they helped us navigate the paperwork , understand what we are signing , what options we have , what are the steps and the timeframes , etc. . We had to go through and sign a stack of papers several inches high , literally , so the help of somebody who actually knows what these talk about and seen them before is very useful . Of course , this is for US , where such transactions inevitably causes a ton of papers to be signed , some locations may have more simple procedures but in the US I think the services of somebody who can navigate this paper jungle is essential , otherwise you have a big chance of signing something you should n't or not checking proper checkbox and ending up losing money . They also put us in contact with mortgage consultant which handled our mortgage needs and turned out to be quite good and efficient ( we checked other offers too but that one ended up best on service and prices - not the rock-bottom cheapest , but cheap enough to be competitive and excellent service ) . We could probably have figured that part out by ourselves if needed , but the agent helped us to know who to contact , what to ask for and how all the process should look like , which for first-time buyer is very helpful . There 's a lot of moving parts in the process and without knowledgeable person it 's sometimes hard to figure out how they should work together . So I would say find yourself a good agent ASAP and then start looking and use them to help you guide through the process . Note that the agent wants the process to be completed as soon as possible ( they get paid only when you close ) but you should not feel pressured by it - it 's your money on the line and it 's probably the biggest deal in your life so far , so do n't be afraid to take your time and ask them about anything , it 's their job to help you .
The shares available to short are a portion of those shares held by the longs . This number is actually much easier to determine outside of active trading hours , but either way does n't really impact the matter at hand since computers are pretty good at counting things . If your broker is putting up obstacles to your issuing sell short limit orders in the pre-market then there is likely some other reason ( maybe they reserve that function to " premium " account holders ? )
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
There are several things to consider with this plan . Most low percent for x months cards or offers have a penalty interest rate if you do n't completely pay it all off on time . In some cases that will mean that they could hit you with all the interest they could have charged you with , just at the moment you thought you had finished paying off the debt . They can also have a penalty rate if one of the payments is late . There can be a fee charged by the IRS to even use the card . From the IRS page <URL> , the fee is 1.87 % to 2.25 % . So you may have to do a cash advance from the card to the bank account before sending the money to the IRS to avoid this fee . If you do use the cash advance feature of the card , make sure the fee for that is n't too high . Do n't use the card for anything else until the IRS debt is paid off . Otherwise additional purchases will not get the grace period , and could incur interest charges from the day of the purchase .
It depends on the bank 's underwriting policies . Most banks will use the price paid for LTV calculations . Later on , you usually have an opportunity to cancel PMI if your home 's value reaches a certain percentage over the initial valuation .
It depends on the deal : and you did n't give any details . That said , there are some things that stand out regardless , and some more specific answers to your questions . First , Mortgage rates ( at the bank ) are absurdly low right now . Like 4 % -5 % ; less than 4 % for excellent credit . You say your credit is ok , so unless your landlord is willing to do a deal where they get no benefit ( beyond the price of the house ) , the bank is the way to go . If you do n't have much for a down payment , go with an FHA loan , where you need only 3.5 % down . Second , there is another option in between bank mortgage and rent-to-own . And that is that where your landlord " carries the note " . Basically , there is a mortgage , and it works like a bank mortgage , but instead of the bank owning the mortgage , your landlord does . Now , in terms of them carrying all of it , this is n't really helpful . Who wants to make 3-4 % interest ? But , there is an interesting opportunity here . With your ok credit , you can probably get pretty close to 4 % interest at the bank IF the loan is for 80 % LTV ( loan to value ; that is , 20 % equity ) . At 80 % LTV you also wo n't have PMI , so between the two that loan will be very cheap . Then , your accommodating landlord can " carry " the rest at , say , 6-7 % interest , junior to the bank mortgage ( meaning if you default , the bank gets first dibs on the value of the house ) . Under that scenario , your over all interest payment is very reasonable , and you would n't have to put any money down . Now for your other questions : If we rent to own are we building equity ? Not usually . Like the other posters said , rent-to-own is whatever both parties agree on . But objectively , most rent-to-own agreements , whether for a TV or a house , are set up to screw the buyer . Sorry to be blunt , and I 'm not saying your landlord would do that , this is just generally how it is with rent to own . You do n't own it till you make the last payment , and if you miss a payment they repo the property . There is no recourse because , hey , it was a rental agreement ! Of course the agreements vary , and people who offer rent to own are n't necessarily bad people , but it 's like one of those payday loan places : They provide a valid service but no one with other options uses them . If we rent to own , can we escape if we have to ( read : ca n't pay anymore ) . Usually , sure ! Think about what you 're saying : " Here 's the house back , and all that money I paid you ? Keep it ! " It 's a great deal if you 're on the selling side . How does rent to own affect ( or not ) our credit ? It all depends on how it 's structured . But really , it comes down to are they going to do reporting to the credit bureaus ? In a rent-to-own agreement between individuals , the answer is no . ( individuals ca n't report to a credit bureau . it 's kind of a big deal to be set up to be able to do that )
I ca n't vouch for the UK , but in the US most basic cards have either no fee or a fairly small yearly fee ( about US$ 15 , if you do n't have a problematic credit record ) . Shop around .
Typically related to real estate prices they mean simple interest . For example assume in 2005 a property is worth $ 100,000.00 . In 2010 that property would be worth $ 108,000.00 .
No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which has lost a million residents over the past few decades . There is plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it was sold . Other markets are very risky , like Florida , where speculators drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drops in real estate are masked because sellers just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price is if you absolutely had to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much better than that . It is the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that makes most of the returns . In urban markets that are getting an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of markets that do this are rare . Also , if you look at it strictly as an investment ( as opposed to the question of " Is it worth it to own my own home ? " ) there are a lot of additional costs that you have to recoup , from property taxes to bills , rental headaches etc. . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approached with the same due diligence .
From working in a bank : Void the check and write a new one . Any change , even if initialed , could be considered suspicious , and cause for the bank to refuse to accept the check ( they may still accept it at their discretion ) . It 's better to be safe than sorry , so write out a new check that is correct .
It 's worthwhile to try and find a better minimum down-payment . When I bought my home , I got an FHA loan , which drastically reduced the minimum down-payment required ( I think the minimum is 3 % under FHA ) . Be aware that any down-payment percentage under 20 % means that you 'll have to pay for private mortgage insurance ( PMI ) as part of your monthly mortgage . Here 's <URL> of it . Part of the challenge you 're experiencing may be that banks are only now exercising the due diligence with borrowers for mortgages that they should have been all along . I hope you 're successful in finding the right payment . Getting a mortgage to reduce your spending on housing relative to rent is a wise move . In addition to fixing your monthly costs at a consistent level ( unlike rent , which can rise for reasons you do n't control ) , the mortgage interest deduction makes for a rather helpful tax benefit .
The effect of making a single purchase , of size and timing described , would not cause market disequilibrium , it would only hurt you ( and your P&amp;L ) . As @littleadv said , you would be unlikely to get your order filled . There would n't be anyone to take the other side of your trade , There would n't be enough shares available at short notice , as a block . You asked about making a " sudden " purchase . Let 's say you placed the order and were willing to accept a series of partial fills e.g. in 5,000 or 10,000 share increments at a time , over a period of hours . This would be a more moderate approach . Even spread out over the span of a day , this remains unwise . You 'll alert the few market participants in that stock that you have a large interest in buying . You 'll probably drive up the price of the stock , due to basic supply and demand for available shares . You 'll create the perception of a " story " or other change in fundamentals about the company , and expectations of share price appreciation in the near future . Even if it is true , you 'll overpay , or possibly not be able to buy it at all , as existing shareholders wo n't want to sell if they think there is a chance for profit-taking . A better approach would be to buy small lots over the course of a week or month . But your transaction fees would increase . Investors make money in pink sheets and penny stocks due to increases in share price of 100 % ( on the low end ) , with a relatively small number of shares . It is n't feasible to earn speculator profits by purchasing huge blocks ( relative to number of shares outstanding ) of stock priced < $ 1.00 USD and profit from merely 25 % price increases on large volume .
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
If you believe you can time the crash , then " invest " in cash keep a good credit rating and buy some property just after the crash that cashflows well enough to pay the mortgage for a long time We all know what comes after a crash ... just as we know what comes after the doom , we just do n't know when ... .
In general , no , not in a strict monetary sense . ( As @MrChrister noted in a comment . ) The primary exception to this , for me , would be in the case of a DIY renovation and a house-flip . Given an outdated house in a good neighbourhood , and spending a reasonable amount on a selected set of renovations could make the house saleable to a different target audience , which might be willing to pay more than the dollar cost ( including your labour ) of the renovations themselves .
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
You have several issues at work . If in the next few years you have a leak in the roof that causes another insurance claim , they may decide not to cover it because they already paid you to replace the roof , and it is your fault that it was n't . That might also mean they do n't pay you for the stuff that is damaged because of the " new " leak . If you minimize the claim that may make it less likely that they will drop you in the future , or increase you rate next year . But if you do n't return the excess funds they will evaluate you on the larger claim size . Of course if they are sending the money directly to the repair company they will only pay the bill up to a maximum amount . Usually the issue has been that the repair company wants to do a larger repair . The dispute resolves around some aspect of the building code . I had a car repair that had to be increased because the roof damage was within x inches of the windshield , so the windshield had to be replaced . The insurance company eventually agreed but it slowed down the process for a couple of days because they wanted to measure it . It is possible that the insurance company has rules related to the age of the roof and the amount of damage that triggers a total replacement .
You 've already hit on the big difference . If you buy a property , you 've made a big commitment , for better or worse . If you bought wisely , you 'll be very happy . If not , you could go bankrupt . An REIT spreads out the risk , but the reward is n't as great . There 's less barrier to entry in buying shares of an REIT than there is in buying an investment property : money , time , maintenance . The answer for you depends on what level of effort you want to put into your investment . If you are all ready to pick up an investment property , make the down payment , get appraisal and inspection , clean up the house , and fill it with tenants , then go for it . Otherwise , research some REITs and buy some shares . ( Disclaimer : I have a rental property that 's doing pretty well now . )
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
The problem might be that by contacting the sales people you make them your agents . By mere requesting information you may inadvertently establish client-agent relationship . Once you 've established it - you can not bring another agent . I believe it depends on jurisdictions and local rules , but I was aware of something like that being a problem here in California . Here 's an article from a real-estate agent in New York explaining the <URL> . Here 's also a <URL> .
end question
start question
Why do grocery stores in the U.S. offer cash back so eagerly ?
The only card I 've seen offer this on credit card purchases is Discover . I think they have a special deal with the stores so that the cash-over amount is not included in the percentage-fee the merchant pays . ( The cash part shows up broken-out from the purchase amount on the statement -- if this was purely something the store did on its own without some collaboration with Discover that would not happen ) . The first few times I 've seen the offer , I assumed it would be treated like a cash-advance ( high APR , immediate interest with no grace period , etc. ) , but it is not . It is treated like a purchase . You have no interest charge if you pay in full during the grace period , and no transaction fee . Now I very rarely go to the ATM . What is in it for Discover ? They have a higher balance to charge you interest on if you ever fail to pay in full before the grace period . And Discover does n't have any debit/pin option that I know of , so no concern of cannibalizing their other business . And happier customers . What is in it for the grocer ? Happier customers , and they need to have the armored car come around less often and spend less time counting drawers internally .
Here is an IRS <URL> covering records retention The publication covers many areas , including proof of income , bank statements , old tax returns . There is a table that talks about how long to keep the records . In general it is 3 to 6 years . But for property it is 3 to 6 years after you dispose of the property .
While the US hosts most of the world 's innovative startups , its own financial and banking systems are very slow to change . The infrastructure exists , however the ACH transfers are not wide-spread between individuals . Banks much prefer the option of bill-pay ( i.e. : as you said , mailing a check , something in other countries people would n't even think of ) , than letting you do it yourself . Why ? Because they can . There 's no real competition over consumers , and the consumers themselves are not educated or sophisticated . Thus , the banks are comfortable with the lack of innovation - since as long as they are all lacking innovation - consumers wo n't demand it because they wo n't even know things are possible . And it is definitely cheaper for the banks not to innovate and keep your money for a week while the bill-pay check is en route , than try and develop new things . In other countries , the regulator would step up and force banks to develop new infrastructure and widen the options , but in the US regulation is considered a bad thing , and people are easily swayed , being uneducated and uninformed , by the corporations to support politicians who act against their ( people 's ) best interest in protecting the corporations and reducing and limiting the regulators even further .
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC § 1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
There are a few reasons , particularly for businesses . The first is opportunity cost . That chunk of money they have could be used to get higher returns somewhere else . If they can borrow from a bank at low interest rates to finance their ongoing operations , they can use their cash to get a higher return somewhere else . The second is credit rating . For public companies , ratings companies give high emphasis to companies with large reserves . This strengthens their ability to pay back the loan should it become necessary . A good credit rating in turn let 's the company borrow money at lower rates . When a company can borrow money at low rates , it circles back to the first point where they can now put their reserves to better use . The third is leverage . Companies can use the cash they have built up to leverage into a larger investment . Assuming the investment works out , it will pay for the cost of borrowing over time . For instance let 's say I have $ 1 million to invest . I can pay all cash for a $ 1 million apartment building or I can leverage that into a $ 3 million building . Assuming I run it well , the tenants will pay for the cost of borrowing $ 2 million and at the end of the term I 'll be left with my $ 3 million building .
Your bond 's current value reflects interest that has accumulated since the issue date . See , e.g. , <URL> for your bond on the Treasury Direct website . Also on that website , there is a <URL> for determining the current value . Note that , per the first link : Treasury guarantees that an EE Bond will be worth at least its face value when it reaches its original maturity date . If , for some reason , the current value is much less than the face value , it may be worth waiting until the maturity date to take advantage of that guarantee . ( I do n't know whether or not such a discrepancy is possible in practice . ) In summary , you purchased the bond for some purchase price less than the face value . Over time , before the the maturity , the bond gains value beyond the purchase price due to interest . At the maturity date , the value will reflect either : the original purchase price , plus interest , or the face value , whichever is higher . If you cash out before the maturity date , you get the original purchase price plus interest .
As I 'm sure you are reading in Hull 's classic , the basic valuation of bonds depends on the chance of entity defaulting on those bonds . Let 's start with just looking at the US . The United States has a big advantage over corporations in issuing debt as it also prints the same currency that the debt is denominated in . This makes it much easier not to default on your debt as you can always print more money to pay it . Printing too much currency would cause inflation lowering the value of debt , but this would also lower the value of US corporate debt as well . So you can think of even the highest rated corporate bonds as having the same rate as government debt plus a little extra due to the additional default risk of the corporation . The situation with other AA rated governments is more complicated . Most of those governments have debt denominated in their local currency as well so it may seem like they should all have similar rates . However , some governments have higher and some actually have lower rates than the United States . Now , as above , some of the difference is due to the possible need of printing too much currency to cover the debt in crisis and now that we have more than one country to invest in the extra risk of international money flowing out of the country 's bonds . However , the bigger difference between AA governments rates depends more on money flow , central banks and regulation . Bonds are still mostly freely traded instruments that respond to supply and demand , but this supply and demand is heavily influenced by governments . Central banks buy up large portions of the debt raising demand and lowering rates . Regulators force banks to hold a certain amount of treasuries perhaps inflating demand . Finally , to answer your question the United States has some interesting advantages partially just due to its long history of stability , controlled inflation and large economy making treasuries valuable as one of the lowest risk investments . So its rates are generally on the low end , but government manipulation can still mean that it is not necessarily the lowest .
Because some investors like a regular income stream in fact a substantial number of UK Investment Trusts pay quarterly dividends for this reason . The idea being if you have a selection of quarterly paying investments you can get a monthly income . I suspect that German companies are more tightly held and do not treat outside smaller investors with the respect that they should - ask a German company about employee share options and you will see what I mean .
In a Rights Issue , you get granted rights to buy shares , but those rights can transferred if you choose not to exercise them yourself . So for example if you owned 10 shares that were worth # 5 each , a Rights Issue might grant you rights on 5 more shares at # 3 each . You could either exercise those rights , spending # 15 and thus maintaining your ownership share of the company , or you might sell them . They would have value because the shares are being offered at a discount to their true value ; in this case the value of all the shares after the Rights Issue should be # 65 ( previous value of # 50 + another # 15 injected ) / 15 ( total number of new shares ) = # 4.33 , so the rights should be worth 5x ( # 4.33 - # 3 ) = # 6.66 . This compensates you for the loss in value of your original shares , which will drop to 10x # 4.33 = # 43.33 after the Rights Issue . In an Open Offer , you can also buy the extra shares at a discount , but you ca n't sell the right to do so to anyone else , so you have to fork out the # 15 or lose the # 6.66 . Note that I 'm not certain if the actual price of the rights follows the calculation I used above , as there are other complications such as underwriting where some other institution promises to buy any shares that noone else wants , but it should at least give the general idea .
File a small claims lawsuit in the city that the person resides . The court will charge you a small fee and give you a date . They will also summons the other person to appear . Bring all the documentation that shows the following The contractor ( you ) The contractee ( your friend ) The goods being transferred ( in your case the money with exact amount ) The start date of the agreement The end date of the agreement Proof that you transferred the money to them BONUS - Bring the documentation that shows them saying they will not pay you back I had to sue someone once for a very similar problem . I lent them a 6 month interest free loan . They told me to shove it after 6 months and 1 day . So I sued them . The court should accept facebook messages as proof . More than likely though your friend wont even show up which means you win by default . Here 's the bad news , that was the easy part . Just because you win in court does n't mean the money appears the next day . There are a couple ways you may have to recover your money . Ask REALLY nicely for it back ( no seriously , this is the easiest ) File for wage garnishment ( state dependent ) Sell your claim to collections company to collect for you Hire an executioner ( The city has a sheriff usually that handles this . Call them and ask the fee , last resort ) Best of luck to you !
Because US bonds have had the prior impression of absolute invincibility and safety that has helped the dollar become the world 's reserve currency and the United States borrow essentially at will . For the people that care what S&amp;P says , the aura of invincibility is broken and it is conceivable , in SOME universe , for the US to default on its debt . This is of little practical importance on its own , but it 's yet another signpost on the road to Chinese or European economic hegemony .
Either get it as cash or as a balance credit . Unless there 's a specific reason to do something else , these would be the most beneficial options . Using the reward balance towards purchases reduces the rewards you 'd be getting for these purchases . Since the reward used towards the purchase is not your " money spent " , you do n't get the reward on that amount . If you use your credit card to pay the full amount and apply your reward balance to the balance on your card - you 'll get rewards in full for your purchases .
It is a must in most folks ' portfolios . If you invest in <URL> ETFs/funds , you 'll have a decent amount of healthcare . If you invest in actively managed value , blend , and growth mutual funds , you 'll also get healthcare . If you 're rolling your own portfolio ( in the US ) , you might consider starting with a general purpose health company ( e.g. J&amp;J ) , then maybe add a large pharma company ( e.g. Pfizer , Merck , etc ) , then top off with some more specialized/focused companies . Of course , you do n't want to put all of your portfolio in healthcare alone . There are other sectors that also have good long-term outlooks ( energy &amp; tech , as well ) . EDIT : Added link to Morningstar portfolio analysis for SPX .
There are two reasons why most options are n't exercised . The first is obvious , and the second , less so . The obvious : An option that 's practically worthless does n't get exercised . Options that reach expiry and remain unexercised are almost always worthless bets that simply did n't pay off . This includes calls with strikes above the current underlying price , and puts with strikes below it . A heck of a lot of options . If an option with value was somehow left to expire , it was probably a mistake , or else the transaction costs outweighed the value remaining ; not quite worthless , but not " worth it " either . The less obvious : An option with value can be cancelled any time before expiration . A trader that buys an option may at some point show a gain sooner than anticipated , or a loss in excess of his tolerance . If a gain , he may want to sell before expiry to realize the gain sooner . Similarly , if a loss , he may want to take the loss sooner . In both cases , his capital is freed up and he can take another position . And -- this is the key part -- the other end matched up with that option sale is often a buyer that had created ( written ) exactly such an option contract in the first place -- the option writer -- and who is looking to get out of his position . Option writers are the traders responsible , in the first place , for creating options and increasing the " open interest . " Anybody with the right kind and level of options trading account can do this . A trader that writes an option does so by instructing his broker to " sell to open " a new instance of the option . The trader then has a short position ( negative quantity ) in that option , and all the while may be subject to the obligations that match the option 's exercise rights . The only way for the option writer to get out of that short position and its obligations are these : Not by choice : To get assigned . That is to say : a buyer exercised the option . The writer has to fulfill his obligation by delivering the underlying ( if a call ) to the option holder , or buying the underlying ( if a put ) from the option holder . Not by choice : The option expires worthless . This is the ideal scenario for a writer because 100 % of the premium received ( less transaction costs ) is profit . By choice : The writer is free to buy back exactly the same kind of option before expiry using a " buy to close " order with their broker . Once the option has been purchased with a " buy to close " , it eliminates the short position and obligation . The option is cancelled . The open interest declines . Options thus cancelled just do n't live long enough to either expire or be exercised .
Depends on how you define the bill 's payout . If you are just considering cash flows the variance of returns will be zero . If you consider inflation adjusted cash flows ( and apply the same logic to other risky assets and recompute the variance of market return ) then you will obtain a non zero value .
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
These rates are so low because the cost of money is so low . Specifically , two rates are near zero . The <URL> , which is " the interest rate charged to commercial banks and other depository institutions on loans they receive from their regional Federal Reserve Bank 's lending facility -- the <URL> . " The <URL> , which is the rate banks pay when they trade balances with each other through the Federal Reserve . Banks want to profit on the loans they make , like mortgage loans . To do so , they try to maximize the difference between the rates they charge on mortgages and other loans ( revenue ) , and the rates they pay savings account holders , the Federal Reserve or other banks to obtain funds ( expenses ) . This means that the rates they offer to pay are as close to these rates as possible . As the charts shows , both rates have been cut significantly since the start of the recession , either through open market operations ( the federal funds rate ) or directly ( the discount rate ) . The discount rate is <URL> . In most cases , the federal funds rate is lower than the discount rate , in order to encourage banks to lend money to each other instead of borrowing it from the Fed . In the past , however , there have been rare instances where the federal funds rate has exceeded the discount rate , and it 's been cheaper for banks to borrow money directly from the Fed than from each other .
I do n't believe there is any particular structural or financial reason that outgoing wire transfers cost so much in Canada , their costs are no higher than other countries ( and lower than many ) . Wires seem to be an area where the Canadian banks have decided people do n't comparison shop , so it 's not a competitive advantage to offer a better price . The rates you quoted are on the low side : $ 80 for a largish international wire is not unusual , and HSBC charges <URL> ! There are several alternative ways to transfer money domestically in Canada . If the recipient banks at the same bank , it 's possible to go into a branch and transfer money directly from your own account to their account ( I 've never been charged for this ) . The transfer is immediate . But it could n't be done online , last time I checked . For transfers where you do n't know the recipients bank account , you can pay online with Interac E-Transfers , offered by most Canadian banks . It 's basically e-mailing money . It usually costs $ 1 to $ 1.50 per transfer , and has limits on how much you can send per day/week . Each of the banks also have a bill-pay service , but unlike similar services in the US ( where they mail a paper check if the recipient is n't on their system ) , each Canadian bank has a limited number of possible payees ( mostly utilities , governments , major stores ) .
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
Two different takes on an answer ; the net-loss concept you mentioned and a core-business concept . If a store is actually a net-loss , and anybody is willing to buy it , it may well make sense to sell it . Depending on your capital value invested , and how much it would take you to make it profitable , it may be a sound business decision to sell the asset . The buyer of the asset is of course expecting for some reason to make it not a net loss for them ( perhaps they have other stores in the vicinity and can then share staff or stock somehow ) . The core-business is a fuzzier concept . Investors seem to go in cycles , like can like well-diversified companies that are resilient to a market downturn in one sector , but then they also like so-called pure-play companies , where you are clear on what you are owning . To try an example ( which is likely not the case here ) , lets say that Sunoco in 5 % of its stores had migrated away from a gas-station model to a one-stop-gas-and-repairs model . Therefore they had to have service bays , parts , and trained staff at those locations . These things are expensive , and could be seen as not their area of expertise ( selling gas ) . So as an investor , if I want to own gas stations , I do n't want to own a full service garage , so perhaps I invest in somebody else . Once they sell off their non-core assets , they free up capital to do what they know best . It is at least one possible explanation .
end question
start question
Can I get a discount on merchandise by paying with cash instead of credit ?
I bought a car a few years ago . The salesman had the order , I knew the car I wanted and we had a price agreed on . When I refused the payment plan/loan , his manager came over and did a hard sell . " 99 % of buyers take the financing " was the best he could do . I told him I was going to be part of the 1 % . With rates so low , his 2 or 3 % offer was higher than my own cost of money . He went so far as to say that I could just pay it off the first month . Last , instead of accepting a personal check and letting me pick up the car after it cleared , he insisted on a bank check to start the registration process . ( This was an example of one dealer , illustrating the point . ) In other cases , for a TV , a big box store ( e.g. Best Buy ) is n't going to deal for cash , but a small privately owned " mom and pop " shop might . The fees they are charged are pretty fixed , they do n't pay a higher fee cause I get 2 % cash back , vs your mastercard that might offer less .
There 's no law in California that says you have to have a cash register . Logging cash sales manually , as you are doing , is fine . A cash register would help you track your cash sales as you describe . Some POS software will also allow you to log cash transactions , but it sounds like you just use a credit card processing web site or application , not a full-fledged POS system . In any case , for a small business , one option might be to get a cash register to log your cash sales , and continue to process credit cards the way you are ( or continue as you are doing ) . Come tax season , use the output from both systems to calculate your income . You might want to consider an accounting software like Quickbooks so you can reconcile your income and expenses and statements from different sources . Also , as with any small business , it 's worth your while to consult a tax accountant to make sure you 're doing everything " by the books " . Once you 're set up properly , keeping the books in order becomes routine and easy .
If you have $ 10000 and wish to buy 1000 shares of a $ 10 stock , you risk borrowing on margin if you go over a bit . For some people , that 's a non-issue . Some folk with an account worth say , $ 250K do n't mind going over now and then or even let the margin account run $ 100K on a regular basis . But your question is about market orders . A limit order above the market price will fast-fill at the market anyway . When I buy a stock , it 's longer term usually . A dime on a $ 30 share price wo n't affect my buy decision , so market is ok for me .
You mention Euros , so I 'm not sure where your mortgage would be held . In the US , with mortgages I 've had , you can prepay at any time without penalty . Any prepayment reduces your interest expense . <URL> will tell you how much you can save ( and how much you can reduce the term ) by making prepayments . I do n't know how well it will apply to non-US mortgages , which may calculate amortization differently . This will not ( in the US ) however , reduce your monthly payments . Your payments will remain the same but the term of the loan will be reduced .
That 's expensive for the insurance you get , and it could only be good for that particular debt , not the other expenses you incur . You 'll be better off thinking carefully about how much life and/or disability insurance you 'll need for all of your obligations , and covering yourself that way .
If your house is repossessed because you 've defaulted on the mortgage then the bank sells the house ( probably cheap , because it 's a quick sale of a repossessed property ) , takes the money you owe them ( the mortgage balance plus the outstanding interest payments and any costs to sell the house like estate agent 's or auctioneer 's fees ) out of the proceeds , and then pays you the rest . If on the other hand the sale price does n't cover the mortgage and outstanding interest , then they can pursue you for the balance ( in many states of the US mortgages are " non-recourse " and they ca n't do this , but in the UK they can ) .
Your practice of waiting until you can pay cash is a good one . It will certainly prevent you from getting into debt ! Now , to be clear , your question puts a credit card in the same category as a loan , but it does n't have to be . You could use a credit card almost like cash , if you are careful . I 'm not familiar with the system in France , but in the US , even if you are paying cash all the time , there are some benefits to getting a credit card and paying it off in full every month , instead of simply paying with cash . Some of those benefits are : You get to wait 20-30 days before paying for the items . You will start to build a credit history , which in the US is helpful when you want to borrow money in the future . [ Note : <URL> Thank you @Relaxed for mentioning it . ] You do n't have to carry as much cash around with you . If you lose your wallet you can cancel your credit card and get a new number . Some credit cards allow you to earn " points " , " airline miles " , or even cash back on every purchase . Typically the value of these incentives ranges from 1-2 % of the purchase price and it is basically free money ( when compared to paying cash ) . [ Thank you @apsillers for reminding me of this . ] One pretty big downside of having a credit card depends on your personality . Some people , once they have credit , end up spending beyond their means , and end up getting into debt . Please look into whether credit cards work the same way in France before considering the above advice . As for your question regarding getting a loan vs paying cash , that will usually be personal preference , since with a loan you can buy expensive items ( such as a house or car ) much sooner than you otherwise could if you waited until you saved the money . For example , it might take 10 years or more to build up enough money to purchase a house with cash , so if you do n't want to wait that long , you 'll need to finance it .
<URL> and <URL> allow shipping packages with COD ( Collect on Delivery ) option . You tell them how much to collect , and they will hold the package and attempt to collect it from the receiver and then remit to you . If they can not collect - they 'll return the package to you . In the ( post - ) Soviet Union republics , the local post offices provide ( d ) similar services . If you 're shipping from/to these areas - check with the postal service if they have it . However , that may be only limited to the postage costs ( I believe that 's the case with the USPS ) .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
Yes , you can pay off your credit card as early as you like , even before the closing date . If you do this , you 'll see this payment on your next statement , and the amount due will be adjusted accordingly . And as long as you pay the entire statement balance by the statement due date , you wo n't be charged any interest . I do n't know anything about your particular bank , but in general , yes , you can use online bill pay services to pay your credit card . Your credit card company probably also has a mechanism on their website for paying your bill electronically .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
You did not state which country you were referring to , so I 'm going to assume Canada . Obviously , the standard approach if you accidentally rip a $ 100 bill in half would be to tape the two halves together . Failing that , though , the Bank of Canada will still accept damaged bills . A torn bill consisting of more than three-fifths of the note is worth full value . A bill is worth half if between 40 % and 60 % of the bill remains intact . It is worth nothing if less than this remains intact . This information comes from <URL> and <URL> ( The Great Canadian Trivia Book by Ray and Kearney ) . In your example , each half would be worth $ 50 . You would not be able to profit from this approach . Indeed , I know of no country where you could profit from this approach , for obvious reasons .
The short answer : Original equity plus 100k , up to the fair market value of the home . You have two considerations when considering the deductability of the interest of a refinanced mortgage . First off , you can count interest on the principal that was used to acquire the home , plus any amount spent on improving the home ( document this , though ) . Secondly , you can count up to $ 100k ( married , filing jointly ) of home equity debt towards your maximum limit . This is a separate amount , not included in the first amount ( the original equity ) , so it is additive . However , you are restricted to the lesser of $ 100k , or the total fair market value of the home minus the amount considered in the first category ( acquisition/improvement ) , when considering both together . The IRS explains this in <URL> : Example . You own one home that you bought in 2001 . Its FMV now is $ 110,000 , and the current balance on your original mortgage ( home acquisition debt ) is $ 95,000 . Bank M offers you a home mortgage loan of 125 % of the FMV of the home less any outstanding mortgages or other liens . To consolidate some of your other debts , you take out a $ 42,500 home mortgage loan [ ( 125 % × $ 110,000 ) − $ 95,000 ] with Bank M. Your home equity debt is limited to $ 15,000 . This is the smaller of : $ 100,000 , the maximum limit , or $ 15,000 , the amount that the FMV of $ 110,000 exceeds the amount of home acquisition debt of $ 95,000 . So if your cash-out refinance allowed you to borrow more than the fair market value of the home , only deduct interest on principal up to that amount . The appraisal you presumably paid for during the refinance process will cover this .
The short answer is " yes " , paying more towards the loan as soon as a you can will reduce the interest . There are <URL> or you could work up a spreadsheet using the specialized family of functions : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . My personal view : The amount of interest you offset in this manner is going to be fairly small ( I 'm going to guess less than $ 5 or $ 10 a month , but I have n't done the math ) . I would say what is more important is to automate your payments at a comfortable level , while making sure your other obligations are taken care of . Then add an extra payment when you save up a chunk of money to pay towards it . Make sure you never miss a payment . That means making sure you set up emergency fund to cover the payments if you lose your job or need to visit a sick family member for a while or the car breaks down or ...
This will probably require some explanation from you on the source of the money and the reasons for the transaction . Cash transactions over $ 10k will be reported by the bank ( in this case ) on a <URL> . Keep in mind , mere breaking the transaction into multiple smaller ones in order to avoid the CTR is on its own a criminal offense . Just deposit what you want to deposit , and report what 's needed to be reported . Note that if you 're a US tax resident - these foreign bank accounts must have been reported already to <URL> , if not - you should expect a very nasty audit with the IRS .
between two people purchasing a house together , one with good and one with bad credit , will having both persons on the loan raise the interest rates . If the house deed is on both names , generally the Bank would insist the loan should also be on both of your names . This to ensure that Bank has enough leverage to recover the house in case of default . If one of you has bad credit , bank would raise the interest rate , assumption that bad credit would drag the good credit and force him to some activities / actions that could stretch the finance of one with good credit . If timely payments are not made , it would make your good credit to bad . If the house deed is on only on your name and you can get the loan on your own , this would be a better position . If the house deed is on only on your name and you would like to loan to be on both names , then the positive side is credit score of the person with bad credit would start showing improvement over period , provided both of you make timely payments . As pointed out by keshlam , there are enough question where people have entered into agreement without deciding what would happen if they separate . There is no right / wrong answer . It would be best you decide how it would be with respect to the ownership in the house and with respect to payments and if in worst case you part ways , how the settlement should look like .
No , you ca n't deduct expenses incurred in 2010 from 2009 income tax . Source : <URL> : " You can include only the medical and dental expenses you paid this year . " Sorry . :(
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
Yes , indeed . For example , Ford Motor Company 's website <URL> . Is there any advantage to having an actual physical note instead of a website ? You can safeguard them yourself . Which may or may not be a good thing . It certainly brings up a bit of hassle and extra costs if you want to sell them . Though you can have lost certificates replaced , so there is more to it than just having physical possession of the certificates .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
end question
start question
What are " credit " transactions I see in my credit card bill ?
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
Freezing your credit is as simple as contacting each of the credit bureaus via their websites and asking for a freeze . Remember , do n't get monitoring or a credit alert , get a credit freeze . Depending on the state you live in , there will be a charge to freeze and unfreeze your credit . You will need to unfreeze your credit before you apply for a loan or anything else that somebody would access your credit report for . While you can possibly spend up to $ 10 per incident , this is probably worth it . You will be given a secret key that you can use to unfreeze your credit , so store that in a safe place so you do n't forget . If you have a police report from a case of identity theft , you can do the freezing and unfreezing for free . <URL>
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
Yes , it is a very good idea to start your credit history early . It sounds like you have a good understanding of the appropriate use of credit , as a substitute for cash rather than a supplement to income . As long as you keep your expenses under control and pay off your card each month , I see no problems with the idea . Try to find a card with no annual fees , a low interest rate if possible ( which will be difficult at your age ) , and with some form of rewards such as cash back . Look for a reputable issuing bank , and keep the account open even after you get a new card down the road . Your credit score is positively correlated with having an account open for a long time , having a good credit usage to credit limit ratio , and having accounts in good standing and paid on time .
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Some things that most financial authors acknowledge is that FICO continually upgrades its algorithm for determining your credit score , they are really good at it , and they are continuing to get better . The article mentioned by Chuck says that it was last updated in 4/2013 . Most assuredly FICO has tweaked its algorithm a few times since the article was last updated . From observation it seems that when an author informs the public of a method to game their FICO score , the engineers take steps to prevent inaccurate scores . An example of this is to keep your accounts open after they are paid off . For myself , I found that behavior is not a necessary part of achieving or maintaining a high credit score . The bottom line is that short term fluctuations should not concern you . By paying your bills you will get a good credit score . A credit score does not in and of itself indicate financial success , rather a balance sheet does . My advice would be to do a budget ( seems like you have that done well ) , pay your bills ( ditto ) , and focus on how you can get more into investments ( improve here ) . The credit score will take care of itself .
However , I did this before and it is a city owned unattended machine . Someone could have placed a <URL> on the machine that captures your credit card information . The fact that the machine is unattended makes this a definite possibility . This could have been done since the last time you used it without the city or any users catching on . This could also occur at a gas station , which you mentioned you had visited in the last few weeks . If you used your card online , check the news or the company 's website to make sure the site was n't compromised . Also , talk to your bank about when the charges were made . The theft could have occurred shortly before that . However , it 's also conceivable that your information was stolen a while ago and only recently used . Have you used your credit card online from a public computer/wi-fi network or over an unencrypted connection ? If not , have you logged into other accounts that use the same account information or could possibly expose your credit card details if those accounts were comprised ? Some people store financial information in their email , so this is another avenue for your information to be compromised . If you receive financial statements or documents with other personal information on them in paper form , do you shred them thoroughly or burn them before disposing of them ? Regardless of how " swanky " your community might be , there are people who will look through trash to find such information . Arguably , a more upscale community would be more vulnerable to this because an identity thief knows there is more information available there . Otherwise , it can be very difficult to pinpoint exactly when/where your information was compromised . I know it 's not the answer you want to hear , but unfortunately , finding the exact time/location of the theft may be impossible .
First , it is important for you to understand that there are multiple credit scores in the US . <URL> is the credit score usually used by lenders to evaluate potential borrowers , but Credit Karma shows you <URL> . Both scores use the same 300-850 scale , but differ in the actual formulas used . The exact formulas are proprietary secrets , and we ca n't know if your FICO score has been impacted as much in the last two months as your VantageScore . However , the credit score companies have revealed the types of things that impact your score . In the last two months , you have done several things that lower your score : Opening the new account required an inquiry on your credit report ( hard pull ) . Opening the new account lowered your average age of accounts . Adding debt on your new account has increased your utilization . For the first two items , these will both get better with time , and there is n't really a way to eliminate them faster . Utilization , however , is an instantaneous number with <URL> . When you pay off your debt , your utilization will improve immediately , and your score will improve with it . It is difficult to say how a credit line increase would affect your score . It has the potential to reduce your utilization number , but will also likely add another credit report inquiry . The best way , in my opinion , to improve your score is to pay off your debt and pay your bills on-time . If you do that , your score will take care of itself , as it had for you before you added " a bunch of debt . " Even at 730 , your score is <URL> . Trying to raise it by adding accounts and raising your available credit higher than you need does n't really give you an advantage .
Wait for the card with your name spelled correctly and activate that one . This will make your life easier in several ways : It 's less of a hassle if someone needs to check your ID against your card . You wo n't have to worry about an incorrect name showing up on your credit history , or about items not showing up on your credit history because the names do n't match . If the names do n't match , you may receive fraud alerts if you attempt to use your card online and enter your correct name . The credit card company will notice that someone with a " different name " is trying to use your card .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
The <URL> state the following : Credit Bureau Reporting . We may report information about your account to credit bureaus . Late payments , missed payments , or other defaults on your account may be shown in your credit report . The card is issued by Synchrony Bank . Generally , store cards do report to credit bureaus , so I see no reason why this one would not .
The Card Issuer does the Credit History checking . The card can be issued by Bank or some other financial institution . The Central Bank/Regulators in each countries set-up an Credit Bureau that acts as a central store of all the Credit history of an individual with any/every financial institution . It is mandetory for all Financial institutions to report certain kind of transactions like Credit Card Spends/Defaults , Mortage Due , Auto Loan and some other kind of transactions depending on the country regulations . The data that these Financial institutions need to submit on a regular basis to Credit Bureau includes the amount of loan , the repayments , defaults , etc. . Any Financial institution that needs to give a card or loan can query this information to find out Credit History . Normally not all Financial institutions directly connect to Credit Bureau , but there are some Reproting companies that connect to Credit Bureau and provide the relevant information to the requested financial institution . The Credit Bureau or the Reporting companies is not a guarantor . Its only an information provider . The Financial Institution must based on the information take action as appropriate , ie give loan / card or refuse or charge higer rate of interest or give lower limits etc. . Initially quite a few Card Companies issued cards directly . Even today Amex issues and services its own card . Master &amp; Visa on the other hand always use tie-up . The advantages with the tie-up being that one get to service a large area and georgaphies where other already have a significant presence . For example Setting up of the Swipe Machines at Merchant establishment &amp; servicing it is expensive &amp; timeconsuming . Plus Marchant may not be comfortable dealing with one more entity . Here Master &amp; Visa leave it to individual Bank to accquire the Merchant . Same is the case with accquiring Customers . Its easy for a Bank to sell me a credit card if I hold an account , they already have the marketing means for doing it . The results are very clear with the number of cards issued by Master &amp; Visa far exceeding those of Amex . In many countires Merchants refuse accepting Amex because they do n't have a good network and dont get paid easily . The co-branded card is additional flavour to encourage customers spend on a particular type of card . Every time a card is swpied say for 100 % , the merchant gets only 97.5 / - Typically 1.5 goes to the Issuing Bank [ as they are out of funds for 30-40 days of credit period ] . 0.5 goes to the merchant 's bank who installed the swipe machine and paid the merchant . 0.5 goes to Master/Visa [ Card Company ] . Take an example of Delta Airlines where tickets are booked by a person using Visa Issued by Bank of America . Bank of America also has put swipe machine in Delta Airlines . In this case the merchant Bank and the Issuer bank is same and hence they would get 1.5 +0.5 , and Visa would get 0.5 . In order to leverage this , Delta would come out with a co-branded card with Bank of America for Visa . Of the 2 % earned by Bank of America , some would be passed to the customer . The customer if he is a frequrent flier would take this card as he gets discounts , airline is happy because its got a dedicated customer , the bank is happy because by co-branding its got dedicated customer of delta booking tickets using its card , the volume increase makes up for the money &amp; discounting . Same principal applies to other co-branded cards . Hope this is clear .
TL ; DR summary : 0 % balance transfer offers and " free checks usable anywhere " rarely are a good deal for the customer . 0 % rate balance transfer offers ( and the checks usable anywhere including payment of taxes ) come with a transaction fee because the credit card company is paying off the balance on the other card ( or the tax or the electric bill ) in the full amount of $ X as stated on the other card statement or on the tax/electric bill ) . This is in contrast to a purchase transaction where if you buy something for $ X , you pay the card company $ X but the card company pays the merchant something less than $ X$ . ( Of course , the merchant has jacked up the sale price of the item to pass on the charge to you . ) Can you get the credit card company to waive the transaction fee ? You can try asking them but it is unlikely that you will succeed if your credit score is good ! I have seen balance transfer offers with no transaction fees made to people who have do n't have good credit scores and are used to carrying a balance on their credit cards . I assume that the company making the offer knows that it will make up the transaction fee from future interest payments . A few other points to keep in mind with respect to using a 0 % balance transfer offer to pay off a student loan ( or anything else for that matter ) : The unpaid part of the 0 % rate balance becomes subject to an interest rate that might be higher than the regular interest rate once the 0 % period expires . So , do n't pay off more of the student loan than you could have managed to pay directly over the 0 % rate period or you will be in a bigger hole when the 0 % rate period expires . After you accept a 0 % offer , your card 's status changes to " Did n't pay off last month 's statement due in full by the due date " and so interest is charged on new purchases from the date of purchase , that is , there is no " grace period " of 25 days to pay off the credit card without having to pay interest . The only way to avoid interest charges on purchases is to pay off in timely fashion the entire balance ( including the 0 % rate balance ) shown on the first monthly statement that you receive after acceptance of the offer ( balance transfer or check usage ) . So , at best , the transaction fee will be prepaid interest for a period of 55 days or so , making the APR much more than stated in Dheer 's answer . Of course , if you have a zero balance on the card , and can put away your credit card and not use it at all during the 0 % interest rate period , you can make this work in your favor . ( There is an answer somewhere on money.SE by Moderator @JoeTaxpayer that describes how he paid off a huge chunk of his mortgage via a 0 % rate loan , but very few of us can match his savvy or his iron discipline ) . If you are used to interest being charged from Day One of each purchase and rarely pay off the monthly statement in full , then be aware that if only the minimum payment due is made , that amount will be applied to the 0 % balance . Meanwhile , all your purchases and finance charges on them will continue to accrue unpaid . The CARD Act of 2009 mandates that the part of the payment that exceeds the minimum required payment must be applied to the part of the balance that has the highest interest rate . But , the minimum payment due ( or any lesser amount ) can be applied to whichever part of the balance the credit card company chooses , and they invariably choose to apply it to the lowest interest rate balance .
Yes . For $ 15 it 's not worth anyone 's time to dig deep just for this specific occurrence . What you should do , however , is keep an eye on your credit card bills and accounts and watch for any other suspicious activity . It is possible that your number was stolen somehow and someone is using it fraudulently , so you want to be on the lookout in case they try to use it again . However , your credit card company is going to be much , much better than you at detecting patterns of fraud , which is why you should leave it to them unless and until you actually see more suspicious activity .
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
Some features to be aware of are : Annual fee ( or lack thereof ) Payment network ( Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover/etc . ) Cash back/rewards rate ( i.e. , how much cash/rewards points you get per dollar charged ) Interest rate Foreign transaction fee Extra benefits ( e.g. , free FICO score , " purchase protection " where you can get a refund in certain circumstances , etc. ) Credit score requirements ( i.e. , how good your credit must be to obtain the card ) How you prioritize these features will depend on your specific circumstances . For instance , if your credit score is poor , you may have to choose among cards you can get with that score , and not have much choice on other dimensions . If you frequently travel abroad , a low or zero foreign transaction fee may be important ; if you never do , it probably does n't matter . If you always pay the balance in full , interest rate is less important than it is if you carry a balance . If you frequently travel by air , an airline card may be useful to you ; if you do n't , you may prefer some other kind of rewards , or cash back . Cards differ along numerous dimensions , especially in the " extra benefits " area , which is often the most difficult area to assess , because in many cases you ca n't get a full description of these extra benefits until after you get the card . A lot of the choice depends on your personal preferences ( e.g. , whether you want airline miles , rewards points of some sort , or cash back ) . Lower fees and interest rates are always better , but it 's up to you to decide if a higher fee of some sort outweighs the accompanying benefits ( e.g. , a better rewards rate ) . A useful site for finding good offers is <URL> .
The are several issues you need to consider : The rate is not guaranteed to be fixed . If you are even one day late the interest rate can jump to 24 % . Minimum Payment . Most credit cards expect you to pay 2 % per month . That may make you monthly payment to the credit card more than you loan payment There is no going back . If you want to switch back to a student loan you ca n't . This will be a cash advance/balance transfer . Understand all the fees associated with the transfer . Can you get a get a credit line big enough ? many people owe 10K to 50K in loans . Tax implications ? Forgiveness programs . Some employers will forgive parts of the loan , or if you work in public service for X years they forgive some of the loan . They will not view the credit card debt the same way .
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
<URL> ended up having credo in their system but you ca n't find it if you search from their top bar . In their current design you need to click " money " in the top nav and then search in the box in the middle of the page .
end question
start question
What kind of trade is this ?
A limit order is simply an order to buy at a maximum price or sell at a minimum price . For example , if the price is $ 100 and you want to sell if the price rises to $ 110 , then you can simply put a limit order to sell at $ 110 . The order will be placed in the market and when the price reaches $ 110 your order will be executed . If the price gaps at the open to $ 111 , then you would end up selling for $ 111 . In other words you will get a minimum of $ 110 per share . A stop limit order is where you put a stop loss order , which when it gets triggered , will place a limit order in the market for you . For example , you want to limit your losses by placing a stop loss order if the price drops to $ 90 . If you chose a market order with your stop loss as soon as the price hits $ 90 your stop loss would be triggered and the shares would sell at the next available price , usually at $ 90 , but could be less if the market gaps down past $ 90 . If on the other hand you placed a limit order at $ 89.50 with your stop loss , when the stop loss order gets triggered at $ 90 your limit order will be placed into the market to sell at $ 89.50 . So you would get a minimum of $ 89.50 per share , however , if the market gaps down below $ 89.50 your order will be placed onto the market but it wo n't sell , unless the price goes back to or above $ 89.50 . Hope this helps .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
This 2010 SEC rule seems to say that under extraordinary circumstances , a trade can be cancelled , by the exchange , any time after it was made : Release No. 34-62259 ; File No . SR-NYSEArca-2010-47 Rule 6.89 ... According to the proposal , in the event of any verifiable disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of any electronic communications and trading facilities of the Exchange , in which the nullification or modification of transactions may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors and the public interest exist , a Trading Official , on his or her own motion , may review such transactions and declare such transactions arising out of the use or operation of such facilities during such period null and void or modify the terms of these transactions , in accordance with the guidelines contained in sections ( a ) ( 3 ) ( C ) ( i ) ( aa ) - ( bb ) of Rule 6.87 . Pursuant to the proposal , the Trading Official , absent extraordinary circumstances , must initiate action under this authority within sixty ( 60 ) minutes of the occurrence of the erroneous transaction that was a result of the verifiable disruption or malfunction . [ Italics are mine . ] <URL> This rule seems to have gone into effect because it was cited in this news article : <URL> This is an interesting rule I had not known about previously , I wonder if it gives too much power to the exchange ...
It depends on whether you 're paying for health care with taxable income . If you are making $ 60K but spend $ 10K on health care , you do n't want to have to pay taxes on the $ 10K . Under current U.S. law , I believe , employer-provided health insurance is exempt from taxes , whether paid for by the employer or by the employee . So in that case it 's a wash . But if the second employer did not offer health insurance , and you spent $ 10K on a personal insurance plan , that $ 10K would be taxable income . You 'd pay taxes on $ 60K but only net $ 50K after health insurance . In that case , the first employer is offering a better deal .
I had a joint account at Chase , and each of us had own on-line login , and could access the account ( each of us also had non-joint accounts in Chase , and with the same login we already had we could access the joint accounts , but not the other 's non-joint accounts ) . It seems like your bank is really backwards on this , change the bank . By the way , in joint accounts you have the option of requiring both partners to sign on every document , so that every check or order you write will only be valid with both of your signatures . I do n't know if that 's what you need , but some may want that ( it is quite uncomfortable , IMHO ) .
To make a zero coupon bond pay , it is sold at a discount to face value . For instance , if the bond is worth $ 1,000 at maturity , it might be sold at $ 970 . Then the buyer gets a gain of $ 30 ( a little over 3 % on $ 970 ) when the bond matures . Treasury bills are sold as zero coupon " bonds . " One advantage is that if you buy , say , a six month bill in November 2011 , you do n't get a gain on it until May , 2012 , and do n't have to pay tax on it until 2013 . Long term bonds can be made into zero coupon bonds by " stripping " the coupons . They are then re-sold at the appropriate discount . The advantage is that your interest rate is determined by the discount . You do n't have to worry about reinvesting the interest ( coupons ) at a different , and possibly lower rate .
Institutions and market makers tend to try and stay delta neutral , meaning that for every options contract they buy or write , they buy or sell the equivalent underlying asset . This , as a theory , is called max pain , which is more of an observation of this behavior by retail investors . This as a reality is called delta hedging done by market makers and institutional investors . The phenomenom is that many times a stock gets pinned to a very even number at a particular price on options expiration days ( like 500.01 or 499.99 by closing bell ) . At options expiration dates , many options contracts are being closed ( instutitions and market makers are typically on the other side of those trades , to keep liquidity ) , so for every one standard 100 share contract the market maker wrote , they bought 100 shares of the underlying asset , to remain delta neutral . When the contract closes ( or get rid of the option ) they sell that 100 shares of the underlying asset . At mass volume of options traded , this would cause noticeable downward pressure , similarly for other trades it would cause upward pressure as institutions close their short positions against options they had bought . The result is a pinned stock right above or below an expiration that previously had a lot of open interest . This tends to happen in more liquid stocks , than less liquid ones , to answer that question . As they have more options series and more strike prices . No , this would not be illegal , in the US attempting to " mark the close " is supposedly prohibited but this would n't count as it , the effect of derivatives on stock prices is far beyond the SEC 's current enforcement regime :) although an active area of research
<URL> has the definition of 1/100th of a percentage point . So , 8.75 percent is 875 basis points for one example . A quarter of one percent would be 25 basis points for another example .
Generally when you get cash - it is considered cash advance . So ATM , casinos , currency-exchange places , buying travelers ' checks , and money transfer/check cashing agencies are the standard suspects in that regard . Funding paypal account may also be considered as cash advance , and in some cases - buying gift cards ( depending on the merchant and type of gift card ) . There are several reasons for this : Cash can not be recovered . Once you got cash - no-one can chase you to take it back . So it is a much higher risk - they may end up absorbing fraud activities if the merchant can prove to have done the due diligence ( which most of them do ) . It is also a higher cost to the companies - they need to pay it to the merchant faster . Usual purchases may end up in the merchant processor 's pocket for significant amounts of time ( I know of some cases where it can be 30 days ) , but not so for cash advances . It also adds to the risk - since even if a charge-back is successful , the money has already left the building and will have to be recovered . Because they can . People who use credit cards for cash advances are usually either desperate or financially illiterate ( and in many cases - both ) . If the companies can earn money for the service - why not ?
That 's almost certainly a confusingly-worded version of Company will match employee 's contributions , up to 6 % of employee 's salary , at a 35 % rate or similar , as you expect . The alternate reading does n't make sense grammatically - " up to " is incorrect in that phrase ( 35 % match of the first 6 % of employee contribution would be okay , but " up to " does n't parse , since every contribution is 100 % of itself ) . I 've more often seen the exact percentage mentioned - but that 's because it 's always been 50 % in my experience , meaning 50 % company match of employee contributions , capped at 3 % of employee salary ( when contributing 6 % or more of salary ) 35 % of 6 % is 2.10 % of employee salary so it 's a bit more confusing to put in that terms . But of course , as with any unclear terminology in a benefits package , ask the company HR forthwith .
Payoneer and PayPal both allow you to connect your bank account to withdraw funds , that is likely your best option
Property taxes , where they exist , are generally levied by cities , counties and other local-level administrative bodies like MUDs , and are the primary source of revenue at these levels of government . These taxes pay the lion 's share of the expenses for basic services provided by a city or county : Local road maintenance/signs/lights Utilities infrastructure ( water/wastewater/trash are typically city-administered ; electrical and telecom it handled more directly by providers but government has a hand in it ) Local first responders ( police/fire/EMS ) Local government offices ( courts , county clerk , commissioner , animal control ) Mass transit subsidies ( lowers the ticket price to encourage ridership by making everyone pay a little from their other taxes whether they ride or not ) Municipal facilities ( parks , pools , etc ) Public schools and interscholastic facilities ( teachers ' salaries , building maintenance/upkeep , administration , athletic facilities ) There are federal dollars , other revenue sources ( State lottery revenues often go toward public schools for instance ) , and " usage fees " ( vehicle registration , utility bills , toll roads ) at play as well , but a lot of that money covers larger-scale infrastructure development ( freeways/interstates ) and specialized " earmarks " ( political backscratching involving this bridge or that dam in a Congresscritter 's home district , a few national initiatives from the President 's budget like first-responder technology upgrades for improved disaster/terrorism readiness ) . Property taxes are the main funding for the day-to-day government operations at the most visible level to the average resident . The theory behind using a property tax instead of some other form of taxation ( like income ) is that the value of the property and the quality of services provided to the resident ( s ) of that property are interrelated ; the property is valuable in part because the infrastructure is well-maintained and nearby schools/hospitals are good , and by the same token , affluent residents expect high-quality services . Property taxes are also easier to levy , because most of the work can be done by the tax assessor ; monitor recent sale prices , do drive-bys through neighborhoods , come up with a number and send the resident the bill . That 's opposed to sales taxes which businesses operating in the jurisdiction have to calculate , collect and turn over , or income taxes which require residents to fill out paperwork to calculate how much they owe . The justification is eminent domain . It 's very simple ; when you buy land in the U.S. and a State thereof , you are still a citizen and/or resident of that State and the U.S. , and subject to their laws . You 're not creating your own country when you buy a house . As such , the government charges you for the facilities and services they provide in your area and your State , which are then your privilege to use . Obviously roads are n't free ; a one-mile stretch behind my house is costing the county $ 15 million to expand it from 2-lane to 4-lane . Here 's the kicker ; you 've already been paying these taxes . You think your landlord 's just going to take the property taxes for the whole apartment complex on the chin ? He 's out to make money , and doing that requires charging a sufficient amount to cover costs , including taxes he incurs . You just never see " allocated property taxes " as an item on your rent statement , just like you do n't see " allocated landowner mortgage " , " allocated facilities maintenance " , " allocated gross margin " etc. . You know you 're getting shafted , paying someone else 's financing with a little extra on the side to boot . That 's why you want a house . Unfortunately , not being able to pay these taxes is a grim reality for some people , old and young , and government generally does n't go easy on delinquent homeowners . After medical bills and mortgage delinquency , property tax delinquency is the number three reason for bankruptcy , and only a mortgage or property tax delinquency can cause your home to be seized and sold . Well that and using it for criminal enterprise , but unless you 're running a meth lab in your half-million-dollar home or financing it with coke money I would n't worry about that score . Retirement planners figure property taxes into cost of living , and they do often advise a downgrade from the 2-story house you raised your children in to something smaller ( for many reasons , including lower taxes ) . There really is n't a way to structure a completely " pay-as-you-go " metropolitan area , and you would n't want to live in it if there were . Imagine every strip of asphalt in the county being a toll road where your transponder ( TollTag , EZ-Pass , etc ) or license plate was scanned and you were billed at each intersection . In addition to being a huge invasion of privacy , the cost to maintain this network ( and your cost to use it ) would skyrocket . Imagine 911 asking for a credit card number before dispatching police , fire or EMS ( Ambulance services already do bill on a per -
In my opinion , Schwab is pretty good and their commissions competitive . You should be using their no-commission ETFs to take full advantage of your relationship . Though Schwab 's ETFs are new , their ERs are one of the lowest you 'll find . Schwab 's reports are tools are their biggest strength . They are well thought out and very useful . Schwab 's closest competitor is Fidelity . Whatever Fidelity does , Schwab will usually offer something similar ! If you are happy with them , no reason to switch . There are some brokers that offer lower commissions , but these are all new players and have n't proven themselves like Schwab . Some like Zecco even pulled a bait-and-switch with their zero commissions .
This is price-setting algorithms running amok . From the page you link , follow the ' 2 new from $ 49,991.11 ' link and you will see that ( at the time of writing ) , there are two vendors offering this item for $ 49991.11 ( plus $ 16.37 shipping ) and $ 49999.99 . These are clearly not ' real ' prices and yet they are suspiciously close to each other . <URL> . Basically , at most one of these vendors actually has this item in stock , but to drive traffic and sales they both offer it for sale anyway . If someone actually ordered it from the one who does n't have it , they would have to buy it first - from someone else offering it for sale ... who is setting their prices based on wider market pricing . You can say how a crazy price spiral might develop .
In the case of Wells Fargo , I believe that free trading is linked to your overall banking relationship with the firm . So if you have a checking account with a balance of $ X , or a total relationship with the bank ( " relationship " is usually defined as loan balances + deposit balances ) over a certain amount , they give you a plum like free stock trades . The theory behind this approach is that banks want to be a one-stop shop for you . The idea is that they can market the banks products to you over a period of years ( lowering customer acquisition cost ) and offer you a level of convenience that allows them to charge a premium for services . For example , many people will pay a rate or fee premium on a mortgage or car loan so that they can do all of their business in one place . In other cases , free trading is linked to marketing campaigns by funds . Charles Schwab started this with the " no transaction fee " mutual fund store many years ago -- transaction fees are actually paid for by the mutual funds who pay for placement in the program . " Free ETF trade " programs are similar .
Most Banks allow to make an international transfer . As the amounts is very small , there is no paperwork required . Have your dad walk into any Bank and request for a transfer . He should be knowing your Bank 's SWIFT BIC , Name and Address and account number . Edit : Under the liberalised remittance scheme , any individual can transfer upto 1 million USD or eq . A CA certificate is required . Please get in touch with your bank in India for exact steps
I did a Google search on co-signer death , which provided a lot of results that looked useful . The top result ( from the Boston Globe ) basically says " <URL> " .
This is called " change " or " movement " - the change ( in points or percentage ) from the last closing value . You can <URL> , the format you 're referring to comes from there .
You normally only pay taxes on the difference between the sale price and the <URL> of the asset . In your example , you would probably pay taxes on the $ 10 difference , not the full sale price of $ 110 . If you paid a commission , however , you would be taxed on your gain minus the commission you paid . Since you held the asset for less than a year , you would n't pay the <URL> of 20 % ; you 'd be taxed on the capital gain as if it were ordinary income , which depends on your federal income tax bracket . Also , littleadv makes a good point about <URL> too , so that 's another part of the equation to consider as well .
Facebook has shares already trading in a private market . The $ 100 billon valuation is based on the trading price of those shares : <URL>
end question
start question
Can a loss on the sale of my house offset capital gains tax from stock options ?
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
But would the IRS agree since the valuation at the probate action was $ 150k and since it was purchased by my mother prior ? The IRS will not agree , but not for the reason you think . Your father selling the house to you is what is called " related persons transaction " . There are very clear rules as to who recognizes the loss , and when . Assume your father has basis of $ 250K in the property . He sells it to you , his son , for $ 100K . I.e. : within your family , without transferring the asset outside of your family 's control , you generated a huge $ 150K loss . It would be reasonable for lawmakers to identify these transactions as a tax evasion scheme and disallow them . Which they did . So in this scenario ( father selling a house with basis of $ 250K to his son for $ 100K ) , the loss of $ 150K can not be recognized for taxes . I.e. : father will not deduct the loss on his tax returns . Instead , you ( the son ) will carry the the loss forward . When you sell the property , you 'll deduct that loss from whatever gain you 're going to have . Unless you sell it to your son , which would disallow the loss again . You get the picture . Get back to your scenario : your father has a " stepped-down " basis . I.e. : since the property was owned by his wife , when she passed away he gained control of it as part of the inheritance . His basis is the value at the time of death ( or 6 months after ) . I.e. : in your scenario , father 's basis is $ 150K , not $ 250K . So by selling to you at FMV - he 's not generating any loss at all ( which makes things simpler for you since there 's no disallowed loss to carry forward until you sell the property ) . Talk to a licensed tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) about the details .
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
It could be a a way to preserve the value of your money , but depends upon various factors . If a country defaults , and it leads to hyper-inflation , by definition that means that money loses its purchasing power . In even simpler terms , it can not buy as much tomorrow as I could today . Therefore people can be incented to either hoard physical goods , or other non-perishable items . Real-estate may well be such an item . If you are resident in the country , you have to live somewhere . It is possible that a landlord might try to raise rent beyond what your job is willing to pay . Of course , in a house , you might have a similar situation with utilities like electricity ... Assuming some kind of re-stabilization of the economy and currency , even with several more zeros on the end , it is conceivable that the house would subsequently sell for an appropriately inflation adjusted amount , as other in-demand physical goods may . Lots of variables . Good Luck .
It 's not enough just to check if your order does n't exceed 10 % of the 20 day average volume . I 'll quote from <URL> : You may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account does n't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the <URL> , not the individual client . This means that if other investors with your broker , or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm , purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at the same time , all of your accounts may face fees , even though individually , you do n't exceed the limits . The NSCC issues a charge to the clearing firm if in aggregate , their orders exceed the limits , and the clearing firm usually passes these charges on to the broker ( s ) that placed the orders . Your broker may or may not pass the charges through to you ; they may simply charge you significantly higher commissions for trading OTC securities and use those to cover the charges . Since checking how the volume of your orders compares to the average past volume , ask your broker about their policies on trading OTC stocks . They may tell you that you wo n't face illiquid charges because the higher cost of commissions covers these , or they may give you specifics on how to verify that your orders wo n't incur such charges . Only your broker can answer this with certainty .
Yes , even though interest might be tax free , a capital gain or loss on sale of the fund is taxable .
The length of ownership matters - it 's capital gain . Because it is not primary residence , you do n't get the $ 250K capital gain exclusion ( more for married ) . By the way , for the matter of sale " primary residence " is a house you own and in which you lived 2 of the last 5 years prior to sale . So even if it is not your primary residence now , if it was recently - you can take the exclusion .
From what I 've read : In Canada , for tax purposes , a family unit ( i.e. you , your spouse , and your dependent children ) can only claim one property as principal residence , for the purpose of claiming the principal residence capital gains exemption . So , you need to pick which property you 'll be claiming as your principal residence for tax purposes , as only one home can be designated principal residence for any given year . Therefore , I imagine that if you already have a principal residence , you would not be able to shelter another property from capital gains taxes simply by putting it in the name of your dependent minor -- ( and is that even possible ? ) I would guess that gains on the sale of that additional property would be subject to capital gains tax . Finally , if you 're talking about having your dependent minor children owning real-estate , I agree with montyloree that you ought to check with a professional -- it sounds potentially complicated .
If you are worried about wash sales within your Wealthfront portfolio , it appears that you should be safe . According to Wealthfront , their harvesting algorithm <URL> : Wealthfront 's tax-loss harvesting algorithms manage your accounts to avoid wash sale issues within your Wealthfront investment portfolio . This includes both sale and purchase timing , as well as choosing alternate ETFs that are not substantially identical to your primary ( initial ) ETFs . Wealthfront does n't use Vanguard target date funds , so there should be no danger of wash sales across the two companies . One question you may have regards on the phrase in the IRS code regarding wash sales . To my knowledge there have n't been rulings about what constitutes substantially similar . However , no Wealthfront ETF would ever be confused as being substantially similar to a target date fund .
There may be more , but a good starting point would be the <URL> . Natural Resources Canada 's ecoENERGY Retrofit program provides financial support to implement energy-saving projects . There are different application processes for homes , commercial and institutional buildings and industrial facilities . Together we can reduce energy-related greenhouse gases and air pollution , leading to a cleaner environment for Canada . Also , there was a temporary home renovation tax credit about a year back , but that no longer exists and nothing has replaced it yet .
The rule defines a wash sale as one that occurs when an individual sells or trades a security at a loss , and within 30 days before or after this sale , buys a " substantially identical " stock or security , or acquires a contract or option to do so . <URL> Does n't matter whether purchase or sale happened first , wash sale rules apply In your example you would have a net gain from the two sales so it would n't matter . Let 's use a different example . Let 's say I buy stock XYZ in January . 100 shares at $ 30/share . Now December comes around and it 's down to 20/share so on December 20th I sell so I can write off the loss on my taxes . Now on the 21st I buy those shares back for 20/share . Wash sale rules prevent me from writing off the loss on my taxes , instead I must adjust the basis of my new shares . The same would be true if instead I had bought 100 now shares on the 20th and sold 100 a day later in the 21st . Wash sale rules would still prevent me from counting that loss .
Both <URL> and the <URL> allow you to exclude $ 250,000 ( single ) or $ 500,000 ( couple ) of profit . So in your case , $ 1.35 M would be exlcluded ( basis $ 850k plus $ 500k exclusion ) , plus any amount you paid for capital improvements ( consult your tax accountant for details on that ) . Beyond that amount , the rest of the sale ( so in your case , about $ 850k ) would be subject to capital gains tax ( Federal and State ) . You 'd likely pay around 24 % to 29 % tax on the gain between the two , unless other relevant details apply .
There 's no scenario that is best in all conditions . Let 's say you will lock in a profit of $ 10,000 immediately , and end up paying $ 2,000 in capital gains taxes . That 's money that otherwise would be growing inside your investment . The counterpoint , of course , is that transferring your investment to one with a lower cost means the proposed investment has a higher expected return . So , it 's going to depend on the expected return of each investment ( which includes the cost of each investment ) and the time frame of your investment . In the 2015 tax year , I sold mutual funds with a cost of approximately 0.35 % in order to switch to ETFs with a cost of approximately 0.06 % , locking in capital gains at the time . In hindsight , I 'm not sure that was worthwhile ; the capital gains are rather costly and my investment horizon is shorter than yours . But it 's at least debatable . If the cost difference or expected return is significantly larger , your decision may be easier than mine .
No . $ 1M income already puts you in the highest income tax bracket , so your capital gains tax would also be the highest + medicare . While the capital gains are taxed at special rates , they do affect your AGI . The special rates for capital gains are based on the AGI . It is only if your AGI is less than that amount will you pay 0 % capital gains tax .
I think these numbers are very location specific . Those house flipper tv shows loved to toss them out because they make great graphics , but they are nonetheless subjective . The only way I know how to guess the value of your home is to get comps . ( What similar homes in your local region sold for recently , withing a small radius such as a quarter or half mile . ) So to decide your ROI figure out your homes current resale value . Use one of dozens of home price estimators for this . Example 100K house , estimated value after adding a bath $ 120K , but the bathroom cost $ 10K to install . ( 120 / 100 ) - 1 = .2 or 20 % increase in the home value . Increase is $ 20K , but since the bathroom cost $ 10K your ROI is only $ 10k . ( is my math correct ? ) But that does n't tell you what new drapes , or updated carpeting will get you . Since you ca n't measure those numbers in any realistic way , you are stuck relying on the gut of a real estate agent , which is n't mathematical and therefore something I ca n't trust . For the little things , they are items that you would want to just make look and feel nice if you are selling the home . Things I have learned : Avoid Junky Lowes or Home Depot fixtures and parts . If you buy the cheap ones then your home looks like every cruddy apartment building in your city . Hire a pro for things that need to pass inspection Get your permits . Upgrades do n't count if they are n't documented Consider a big picture . I did one room at a time in my house and now the house reflects that . I should have planned the whole house stylewise , even if I only did one thing at a time . Never never never big the best or nicest house on the street . Do n't be the worst , do n't be the best .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
So , lets get it straight . I 'm using 2014 numbers and my Intuit tax software : Let 's ignore the ACA tax here , it comes into play since you did n't mention anything about the ACA mandate insurance . Looking at the calculation worksheet ( <URL> ) - the account is right ( the tax amount may be a bit off , since the tax tables are still not updated for 2014 ) . You have $ 20000 capital gains , and $ 6000 ordinary income . Capital gains are taxed at 0 , as expected . Ordinary income is taxed at $ 603 , <URL> .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
end question
start question
Credit check for refinance inquiry ?
When shopping for a mortgage , you get a grace period where all credit pulls related to mortgage shopping in 14 days only count as one credit pull . Having other banks pull your credit to get a quote should not additionally affect your credit because you just had a bank pull your credit for the first quote .
You should n't be charged interest , unless possibly because your purchases involve a currency conversion . I 've made normal purchases that happened to involve changes in currency . The prices were quoted in US$ to me . On the tail end , though , the currency change was treated as a cash advance , which accrues interest immediately .
" I am trying to buy a property between me and a friend " - You and a friend are buying a property together ? No , the owner probably wo n't like a third party check . There are no tax consequences so long as you have a paper trail . Nothing to submit unless you are asked . Your friend and you will show joint ownership of the property , just keep a copy of the check , the statement showing the deposit , and the check used to buy the property , along will all other docs you get at closing .
When you write the check and mail it , the donation occurred from your point of view , no matter when it 's actually cashed . For example , from the <URL> : A charitable gift by check is effective when the check is delivered or mailed , as long as the check clears in due course , even though a donor theoretically could stop payment at any time until the check is presented for payment . So , if your check was mailed on 12/31/2014 it was in 2014 's tax year . If you wrote it on 12/31 but did n't mail it until 1/2/2015 , it was in 2015 's tax year . You can still file a 1040X to claim the deduction in 2014 , if it 's enough that you consider it worth your time to do that .
Read the terms carefully . With promotional offers , if you do anything " bad " , the promotion is terminated and you immediately revert to either your normal rate or a penalty rate . " Bad " includes things like : making a late payment , going over your limit , paying less than the minimum payment , etc. . I would n't sweat the potential credit score impacts . These promotions are pretty much the best deals that you can get for an unsecured loan .
When shopping for a mortgage , you get a grace period where all credit pulls related to mortgage shopping in 14 days only count as one credit pull . Having other banks pull your credit to get a quote should not additionally affect your credit because you just had a bank pull your credit for the first quote .
This is relatively standard financial shell games , actually . The same offers are often available when refinancing a house , but it just gets called " closing costs " or " document fees " so it feels a little bit different ... also partly because the numbers FEEL bigger for a house and so ppl just sign on the line . What 's going on is that the lender has done its calculations and decided once upon a time that it would charge $ 299 to cover costs with loan refinances ... No big deal . I trust that you 're comfortable enough with reimbursing them for that . As far as adding $ 1000 cash now ! ... and having you pay that back as the loan , they 're doing some fancy financial calculations . If you want to see what that would basically cost to compare with an immediate $ 299 payment , you need to do some moderately complex financial calculations . Here 's a ballpark , but I 'm making some assumptions that could get closer if you gave the new interest rate and the loan terms . Assuming you got a new loan for 13,000 at 3.5 % for 5 years ( 60 months ) , your new payment would be about $ 236 per month . Check out <URL> if you want to follow along . That means that with your new loan you 'd pay ( 60 * $ 236 ) + $ 299 = $ 14,459 , if you went with the up front fee . You 'll pay back in principal 14,000 for the loan if you take the cash up front , which is $ 255/month or about $ 15,300 . The obvious difference between the two is 15,300 - 14,460 == 840 . Now , how you evaluate it from here is up for debate and PhD thesis papers , but here 's my two cents . You 'll have to pay 299 either way to refinance your loan . So you 're only really paying $ 540 extra to do the cash up front . Do you have the 299 ? It would save you money . Could you use the extra cash now ? ( And carry the higher payments ? ) Maybe the deal makes sense . Its up to you . But I would be careful with respect to refinancing frequently , especially if you 're at the first year ( s ) of the loan . The way that loan repayments work , you end up paying mostly interest up front and then start repaying your principal more and more towards the end . So you may feel like you 're saving , due to the lower rates , when you 're actually paying mostly interest perpetually without making a big dent in your loan balance .
The recipient might be tough , not all checks I receive will have my address . If it does , and you 're inclined , just mail it to them or drop it off if you are nearby . If not , I might just return to sender . This all depends on the nature of the check , if it 's a refund/rebate check from a big company , mailing it back may be pointless .
tl ; dr : Because you have been aggressively paying off your mortgage , you do n't have much time left on your mortgage . If you continue to pay off your mortgage at this rate , it will most likely not be worth it for you to refinance . When evaluating a refinance , you need to calculate the payback time . This is the time it will take for the money you are saving on interest with your new rate to make up for the cost of refinancing ( closing costs ) . Here is your original amortization schedule for your current mortgage ( monthly payment of $ 910 , total interest cost $ 41,800 ) : ( <URL> ) However , you have been paying early . ( Nice ! ) If you were to make the normal $ 910 monthly payment from here on out and not pay anything early anymore , your mortgage will end on March 2021 , which is 5 years early . ( <URL> ) If you continue to pay early at the rate that you have been paying ( I estimate that you have been paying an extra $ 675 per month ) , your mortgage will end on September 2018 , three years from today . ( total interest cost : $ 19,900 ; interest between now and the end : $ 3,200 ) ( <URL> ) If you are planning on continuing to pay off your mortgage at the rate that you have been paying , this does n't give you a whole lot of time to get your closing costs back in saved interest . Let 's assume that you are planning on paying off your mortgage at the same rate that you have been paying it . Closing costs and interest rates can vary , but for the sake of discussion , let 's say that you can refinance today for 3.125 % , and the closing costs will be $ 2000 . The normal amortization schedule for your new , 15 year mortgage would look like this : ( $ 370 monthly payment , $ 13,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) At the rate you 've been paying ( about $ 1585 per month ) , if you continue this after you refinance , your mortgage will be done about 3 years from now . ( $ 2,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) Looking at your two options , if you do not refinance , you will be paying about $ 3,200 in interest before your mortgage is paid off . If you refinance now , you 'll be paying about $ 2,500 in interest , a difference of $ 700 . It is very unlikely that you will be able to refinance for less than $ 700 in closing costs , so I would say that it is not worth it for you to refinance .
Age does n't signify , except that being younger means you have a shorter credit history by definition . Re what affects credit score : <URL> . Basically , the obvious : demonstrating you can ( or ca n't ) be trusted to handle credit responsibly . That 's what the score is trying to measure and predict , after all . If you are careful with your money , that will already put you well above the average , and the credit score will look after itself . You really do n't have to worry much about it until you start borrowing stupidly or fail to make most payments on time or otherwise give folks reason to worry about your willingness and ability to pay .
No . That 's pretty unlikely . Card issuers typically base your rate on your credit score . Paying down debt reduces your percent of available credit used , and improves your score until you are in the 1-20 % range . That 's optimum . To this issuer , you are one of a million customers , there 's no emotion in this , just numbers to them . For what it 's worth , if a card issuer raises your rate , you are permitted to " not accept " the rate , stop using the card for new charges , and pay at the current rate . Of course this does n't apply to zero interest deals , only to increases to your regular rate .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
They do n't track checks at all . If you make a cash transaction for an amount that exceeds the reporting limit ( circa $ 10K ) , then a <URL> will be filed with the US Department of the Treasury ( not IRS , but close ) about it . This is to detect and prevent money laundering .
If the funds are deposited into a noninterest-bearing account , they will be covered by FDIC insurance regardless of the amount ( However , this extended coverage may not be valid after Dec. 31 , 2012 ) : On November 9 , 2010 , the FDIC issued a Final Rule implementing section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that provides for unlimited insurance coverage of noninterest-bearing transaction accounts . Beginning December 31 , 2010 , through December 31 , 2012 , all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured , regardless of the balance of the account , at all FDIC-insured institutions . ( Source : <URL> )
As you are depositing the check , there 's something simple that you can do that will make this work very easily . Sign the check , and write the works " For Deposit only Account # ( Replacing the and , of course ) , then you can use any means to get the check to the appropriate location , so long as you were the person to sign the check . It 's perfectly legal to do this , or even to send a friend . My bank actually allows us to mail the checks , making it be a stranger that I do n't even know bringing the check to the bank . However , the question of if your SO could sign the check in your absence , well , it might be doable , especially if you are depositing the check into a joint account , but I would n't do it on a regular basis . If there 's an emergency , it could be worth a shot , but aside from that ... I would not try that unless you have some sort of a legal contract , either being married or some kind of power of attorney or similar document .
It is possible for an employer to check your credit score and it is legal . As long as you give them permission . You have every right to refuse BUT the employer also has the right to not give you a job . The reason is to get an overall feeling for your integrity , discipline , and lifestyle . People in debt are more likely to embezzle , etc. . A low credit score can also indicate that you make poor choices in your financial and purchasing deals . If you are refused a job you are qualified under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to get a copy of your credit report . Source - <URL>
The short answer is that the longterm impact to your credit score is negligible . The long answer is that if you open 4 or 5 new cards in a month your score will decrease from the credit inquiries and from a decrease in your average age of accounts . The damage really is pretty minor 20-30 points off your FICO on the high end ( the more old accounts you have the smaller the effect is ) and temporary after a year you will be close to your original score . The only time I would worry about the effects opening a bunch of accounts is if you are planning on getting a mortgage in the next year even then a couple of cards probably wo n't hurt unless you are within a couple months of when you get the mortgage . For reference I had 7 or 8 new accounts within the past year and my FICO was still good enough to get the best rate on my mortgage . This is all based on my own personal experience , I have opened 5-15 new cards a year for bonuses and 0 % offers for the past 5 years or so and my FICO score varies between 740 and 770 .
Obviously you know your own circumstances , but it would be considered normal for a company to pay relocation expenses for someone they hire . Unless they have explicitly said no already you should at least ask . Even if they have said no , they might make you a loan to cover your expenses , at a low or even zero interest rate , to be paid back out of your salary . If they absolutely say no again , then go with the other options mentioned here .
First make sure you know the process for paying off your current mortgage in the refinance and make sure that refinancing makes sense for you . Per the comments on <URL> , it appears that there is conflicting information about how long you can space out your shopping before the pulls start coming in separately . The shortest number quoted , and thus the safest , is within 2 days . If you research your banks in advance and do the pre-approval process at all banks within 2 days , the pulls will count as one hard pull on your credit instead of a couple/few/several . In that case the ding should be about as minimal as it can be on your credit . Do your shopping around first , pick the number of banks you can visit in 2 days to actually go through the process and get your good faith estimates from those lenders . Visit them in those 2 days . This will ensure a minimal hit to your credit . Also make sure not to be doing anything else involving your credit , especially opening up new lines of credit , before you close . EDIT : <URL> states that the window for FICO is 14 days .
It will impact your score negatively . The score looks at all the Loans . There should be moderate amount and number of loans . The another aspect is ALL loans should be paid ON-TIME and in FULL . If you are paying partly on one loan , it will drag the overall score down . By how much would depend on the loan amount and the time it is over due . It would be best if you talk to your bank and ask them to re-amortize to a lower amount and longer duration . This would then start to improve the score . Edit Not Paying a loan will definitely reduce your score . Taking another loan , provided someone will grant you the loan [ with a poor credit score , you may not get another loan ] , will just replace the bad loan as closed . If you ca n't pay the second loan , what makes you think you can pay the new loan ? If you default , it would look like default on old loan plus a default on new loan . As suggested earlier , it is best you start paying the second loan regularly to see an improvement in your score .
end question
start question
What equity would I have when selling early on in mortgage ?
I 've heard that for the first few years , I 'll only be paying down the interest of the mortgage , and not the principal Interest-only mortgages might be available to you , but otherwise that 's not correct . For a repayment mortgage , the lender calculates ( on the counter-factual assumption that the interest rate will not change through the life of the mortgage ) how much you need to pay each month to ensure that the principal will be paid down to zero after the agreed amortization period . So in the first month the principal is $ 80k , the interest is some fraction of that , I will call it X . You pay your monthly payment , Y , and Y-X is deducted from the principal . In the second month the interest is a fraction not of $ 80k , but of $ 80k + X - Y . So in the second month the interest is slightly less than X , but your monthly payment is still Y. Thus in the second month the principal is reduced by slightly more than Y-X , and so on . Eventually in the final month of the mortgage you pay off 100 % of the remaining principal . An interest-only mortgage is simply one for which ( by agreement with the lender ) Y = X . That is , the monthly payments do not pay down the principal , ever . At the end of the mortgage you have to find the full amount loaned , because you still owe the bank the full amount . If you end a repayment mortgage early then the lender uses this system of regular monthly interest charges and regular monthly payments to calculate your remaining principal . Then they 'll add any administration charges or early repayment penalties on top of that calculated principal . Whenever the interest rate changes ( or the mortgage otherwise changes ) your monthly payment is re-calculated to still hit your target repayment date , and the bank tells you your new payment . As an issue of mathematics and in particular the effects of compound interest , it turns out that if the mortgage is amortized over a long period , you do n't pay off much in the first 5 years . You do pay off something , but it 's small enough that people will say , as an approximation , that in the early years you " do n't pay off the principal " . soakley shows some example figures , it depends on the interest rate and the repayment period . So , if it were really true that you only pay off interest in the first 5 years ( for example if the mortgage you choose to take is an interest-only mortgage ) , then at the end of 5 years your equity in the house would be the value of the house less the $ 80k that you still owe to the bank . Looking at it another way , your equity is your $ 20k up-front payment plus all of any increase in the value of the house ( or minus all of any decrease , as the case may be ) . Assuming no change in the value of your house : $ 100k asset minus $ 80k debt equals $ 20k equity . However if you have a repayment mortgage then you will in fact pay off a small amount in the first 5 years and so your equity will be more than $ 20k assuming no change in the value of the house . Note also that there 's no question of " shares " in the value of the house . People talk about the bank owning 80 % of their house but that 's not true ( except in less common arrangements such as Islamic mortgages ) . You will own 100 % of the house and owe the bank $ 80k ( less whatever you 've paid down ) . That 's why all of the increase or decrease in the value of the house is yours .
The only general rule is " If you would buy the stock at its current price , hold and possibly buy . If you would n't , sell and buy something you believe in more strongly . " Note that this rule applies no matter what the stock is doing . And that it leaves out the hard work of evaluating the stock and making those decisions . If you do n't know how to do that evaluation to your own satisfaction , you probably should n't be buying individual stocks . Which is why I stick with index funds .
The underlying investment is usually somewhat independent of your mortgage , since it encompasses a bundle of mortgages , and not only yours . It works similarly to a fund . When , you pay off the old mortgage while re-financing , the fund receives the outstanding debt in from of cash , which can be used to buy new mortgages .
Does the interest for investing take place after that year 's over with or ' monthly ' in a sense ? It depends on your account . Specifically , how often the interest compounds . Meaning , when the bank calculates and pays it ; then that paid interest becomes part of your principal and included in the next round of calculation , hence " compound " . Monthly is a common schedule . Yearly is rare , despite the fact that interest rates are given as annual percentages . The faster the interest compounds , the better . All else being equal , you will earn more interest by depositing earlier , as long as account interest is paid out with frequency other than once at the end of the year . You miss out on the intra-year payments by delaying your deposit . Over a long period of time , this will end up being a substantial difference .
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
Legally speaking , when you convert that bit-coin onto something else , the Israeli Tax Authority will look into the value of that something else , compare it to the original value of the previous something else you used to buy bit-coins ( USD , in your example ) , and charge you capital gain taxes for the difference . According to the Israeli law you 're supposed to pay taxes when selling ( converting the bit-coin to something else ) , and since you 're not using any formal bank or stock broker which will automatically deduct the taxes , you have to pay the taxes yourself . By not doing so you 're committing a tax fraud . The real question you 're asking is whether they 'll come after you . Well , that depends on the amounts . They might . Pay attention : there 's no statute of limitation for tax fraud in Israel . They may come after you in 50 years from now . Another thing to keep in mind : if you used bit-coins to buy something ( services or products of any kind ) , you probably did n't pay the VAT ( מע " מ ) - which is another case of tax fraud on your behalf . PS : I 'm not a lawyer or accountant , so get a professional advice , but I have been dealing with the Tax Authority in Israel , so I 've got a pretty good idea of what the rules are .
First , your benchmark : Your SB account gives you 4 % . Now , consider a fixed deposit . Banks offer you those , at rates that depend on the term . The 1-year FD today gets you between 9 and 9.5 % . While the term is locked in , you can get an early withdrawal - if you exit the 1 year FD within , say , 60 days , they 'll give you the interest rate that applied for 60 days when you started the FD ( with some banks reducing a further 1 % from that rate as a penalty ) . Still , your principal is returned in full ( the penalty is only on the interest ) . Negatives : Taxes . The interest paid is fully taxed , and worse , taxes are deducted at source ( TDS = 10 % of the interest ) , so even if you do n't use the interest it 's counted as income and taxed . Next , consider a short term debt mutual fund . These are , for terms of more than a month , just as low on risk as a bank fixed deposit . There is no equity , and these funds put money back into bank wholesale deposits which give an even better rate . You can withdraw any time you want ( it takes only a day to get money back into your account ) . Usually early withdrawal penalties will apply for about 30 days , but if you have a longer horizon that should n't be a problem . The good part : No TDS , and the interest received is not considered " income " , until you withdraw . So if you get 9 % and do n't exit , you pay no taxes , and the compounding of the full 9 % happens . It 's an alternative to a Savings Bank account - just keep putting your money in , and take it out when you need it . The bad part : There is no guarantee that you 'll get 9 % ; with market prices being volatile , the yields could drop to 6 % . So you have to track this carefully ( currently , yields have been between 8 and 9 % for the last year ) A more detailed piece on this at : <URL> Choosing such a fund : I wrote an article about it at <URL> - I still continue to be invested in those funds ( and they 're giving me about 9 % ) The above are limited risk options . For a long term view I would consider equity investments ( buying stocks or equity mutual funds ) from reputed funds . If you 're risk averse consider buying a " balanced " fund like HDFC Prudence , where they invest part in fixed income markets and part in stocks . Lastly , do n't look at the recent past only . The Sensex has returned over 18 % in the last ten years , but the ten years before that were horrible . Equity markets are risky , but can give you fantastic returns as well .
<URL> states ( click to read full IRS doc ) : <URL> " Do not file a federal income tax return if you do not meet the filing requirements and are not due a refund . ... If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien , you must file a return if your gross income for the year was at least the amount shown on the appropriate line in Table 1-1 below . " You may not have wage income , but you will probably have interest , dividend , capital gains , or proceeds from sale of a house ( and there is a special note that you must file in this case , even if you enjoy the exclusion for primary residence )
Your account is your account , hers is hers . The fact that you file taxes jointly does n't change that . The " I " in IRA stands for Individual . You can not merge them . There are certain conditions when you can withdraw your IRA penalty-free , check <URL> for some pointers .
Dollar cost averaging is a fancy name someone came up with to say " Invest all of the time " . I would not bother with spreading out purchases . If the market is too expensive right now ... so what ? The items you sell will bring top dollar . The fund you buy will cost top dollar . It all evens out . You could sell your assets and just sit on cash , but that would require knowing when the next market drop is coming . . which no one knows . Also , it never really is cash ; it goes into a money market fund which is not guaranteed . I would rather own companies ( VSTAX ) and collect the dividend .
You 'll have to talk to your mortgage lender about that , I doubt there is a ' generic ' answer to it . I do currently have a house in another country that I 'm paying a mortgage on , but the lender was n't too happy with that . They still did accept it , but the bigger problem for me is refinancing it as an investment property when you 're not in the country . Also , it probably depends on what your plans are - are you planning to go abroad for a few years , then return ? Emigrate for good ? Rent out the place while you 're gone ? As I can attest to , even with a local agent a house 5000 miles away can be more of a pain in the posterior than you 'd expect it to be .
Even though your HSA may already cover vision and dental expenses , there are two reasons you still might want to consider a Limited Purpose FSA on top of an HSA : If you anticipate enough <URL> to completely use up funds in your HSA ( and remember , annual contributions to an HSA are <URL> ) , then you can use the FSA funds for the vision &amp; dental expenses specifically , or If you want your HSA balance to accumulate for future major health expenses . HSA balances can carry over from one year to the next . Be careful : Unlike an HSA 's ability to carry over , FSAs are instead use-it-or-lose-it ... excess funds are forfeit at the end of the year . So , do n't overfund beyond anticipated expenses , or you 'll generously end up <URL> in your company 's medical plan . :-)
Gold and silver are for after the crisis , not during . Gold and silver are far more likely to be able to be exchanged for things you need , since they are rare , easily divided , etc. . Getting land away from where the crap is happening is also good , but it 's more than that . Say you have land somewhere . How will the locals view you if you move there to hunker down only when things go bad ? They wo n't really trust you , and you 'll inherit a new set of problems . Building relationships in an off-the-beaten-path area requires a time investment . Investing in lifestyle in general is good . Lifestyle is n't just toys , but it 's privacy , peace of mind , relationships with people with whom you can barter skills , as well as the skills you might think you 'd need to do more than just get by in whatever scenario you envision . For the immediate crisis , you 'd better have the things you 'll need for a few months . Stores probably wo n't be supplied on any regular basis , and the shelves will be bare . Trying to use gold or silver during the crisis just makes you a target for theft . With regard to food , it 's best to get acclimated to a diet of what you 'd have on hand . If you get freeze-dried food , eat it now , so that it 's not a shock to your system when you have to eat it . ( Can you tell I 've been thinking about this ? :) )
When I asked this particular question on a car forum recently , I got the following suggestions : Accept cash , but make sure you check it 's not home printed , so to speak If the buyer wants to pay by cashier 's check , meet him at his bank and see him draw the check out of his account right there and then ( no " here 's one we got earlier " cashier 's checks , the danger of them being a good fake is very real ) Any other method of payment ? Tell the buyer to take a hike When we bought our last car , we met with the seller in the DMV 's parking lot as there generally is some police around and paid him cash . Here in NV the plates stay with the PO so you have to get it registered or a movement permit anyway before you can drive the vehicle so this worked out pretty reasonable and safe for both parties .
The value of debt is that it allows you to profit from the return of equity beyond the amount of actual net equity you own . Of course , this only works if the cost of borrowing is less than your return on equity . Market timing matters a great deal but is n't accounted for in this view . For my answer I would like to hand-wave away market timing considerations . One plausible justification is that you could default on your current home and then immediately go buy one of equal value . If you buy a new home of a lesser value ( due to lack of funds ) and then prices appreciate , then you missed some opportunity cost but probably not $ 100k worth of it . Moving on , here are some helpful assumptions I 'll make . You currently have a net worth of P Borrowing with good credit ( which you have now ) costs you R1 % yield , with a limit of A1 You simply do n't borrow at all if you have bad credit The time value of money to you , or your average investment yield is R2 % You make S dollars per year at your job more than what you spend You will retire in X years . I 'll ignore performance of your portfolio after retirement and only seek to optimize F , which will be your net worth upon retirement . In either case , your current net worth is earning the R2 rate . We can convert this for both your current net worth and future savings using <URL> . Present to future value F = P ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x Annual to future value F = S ( ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x - 1 ) / R2 Adding these together is sufficient to obtain F in the case that you have no borrowing power . The case where you do not default and maintain your credit score is different due to an initial $ 100k penalty and the amortized value of borrowing power . In a completely theoretical sense , you get an effective ( R2-R1 ) yield on all borrowed money . The future value will be the following : F = A1 ( 1 + R2-R1 ) ^ x One step is missing , however , which is to convert this value ( the value of having a good credit score ) into present value to compare to value of your defaulting . P of borrowing power = F / ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x = A1 { ( 1 + R2-R1 ) / ( 1 + R2 ) } ^ x Now , let 's put some specific values in . Say that you can borrow $ 300k with your good credit history and this applies for the next 25 years , after which you retire . The borrowing rate is 7 % and the time-value of money to you is 10 % . I would then calculate : P of borrowing power = $ 58 k < $ 100 k This indicates that it would be more economical to default . Of course , some people might point out that it will be removed from your record after 7 years . If you plug 7 years instead of 25 years into the equation , almost no assumptions about rates will lead to the option of keeping your house being preferable . So in a nutshell , the value of your credit is probably less than $ 100k in a purely mathematical sense . But there are other factors too . If you do n't have that borrowing ability maybe you would n't be able to borrow money to start the business of your dreams . If you are a rock star entrepreneur , then time-value of money to you could be 1,000 % yield , sure , then maybe you could make the above numbers work ( to favor keeping the house ) . I 've also neglected ethics . As other people point out , it would be like stealing from the bank .
Selling short in brokerage accounts does n't work that way for the regular client . Ask your broker what it will cost you to short the treasury if you remove the cash you think you 'll get . You will probably wind up showing money borrowed and charged margin instead of the credit you expect . If your proposal worked , anyone can short in their brokerage accounts and pay zero interest to borrow short term . It 's not this easy .
Is that an FHA loan you have ? And you 're wanting to do one of those low cost FHA re-fi 's , right ? The answer is that in between when you first got that loan and now , the government 's changed the rules on PMI for FHA loans . It more than doubled the amount of monthly PMI you have to pay . The new rates , efective April 18th , 2011 , as as follows : It used to be . So that 's why the PMI would go up . There is another rule in play too , specific to that no-cost FHA refi -- the government requires that the combined ( principal + interest + pmi ) monthly payment after the refi is at least 4 % lower than the current payment . Note that the no-cost refi does not require a new appraisal . Some options present themselves , but only if you can show some equity in a appraisal : 1 ) if an appraisal shows at least 10 % equity , you can go refi to a standard mortgage . You might even be able to find one that does n't require PMI at that level . If you have 20 % equity , you 're golden -- no pmi . 2 ) See what the monthly payment will be if you refi to the 15 year FHA mortgage . Between the much lower PMI , and the much lower interest rates ( 15 year is usually about 0.75 % less than a 30 year ) , it might not be much more than what you 're paying now . And you 'd save a huge amount of money over time , and get out from that PMI much earlier ( it stops when your principal drops below 80 % of the loan amount ) . This would require that reappraisal .
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
In my experience , any kind of equity you may be offered by the company is just a carrot . Your offer may be written in such a way that your potential ownership represents , say , 1 % of the company today . But if the company goes for a round of financing your ownership percentage can get diluted . If this happens a couple of times and the terms of financing are n't very favorable then your percentage can go from that 1 % down to 0.001 % , making the equity worthless . I 've known people who heard their company was being bought and thought they might get some kind of payoff . Come to find out the company had n't done all that well and there was n't anything to pay out after the main investors got some money back . ( The main investors took a loss . ) For obvious reasons , management was n't keeping the staff up to date about the fact that they were operating in the red and their options were worthless . Some people grumbled about lawyers and filing lawsuits , but at the end of the day , there was n't any money to be won . Keep this in mind . As to your question regarding what to look out for : What does the offer represent in terms of percentage of the company ? In a corporation , there may be multiple classes of shares . With an LLC , the sky is the limit as to what they 're going to offer you . Beyond just share classes , profit rights and voting/control rights can be divided up in any way the Membership Agreement states . Are they offering you Membership ? Will your shares/units have voting rights ? Are you even getting shares/units or is it just a promise to share profit/equity in case of a buyout ? Are there any provisions regarding dilution ? How big is the employee pool ? What is the vesting schedule ? What are your rights / obligations if you separate from the company ? Is there a difference between voluntary and involuntary separation ? If you exercise your offer before the company is bought , and you become a Member ... can you continue as a Member after leaving the company ? is your employment tied to Membership in any way ? can you sell your shares/units ? what are your rights/obligations as a Member ? Can you get a copy of the Membership Agreement ( or Bylaws ) ?
Stock price = Earning per share * P/E Ratio . Most of the time you will see in a listing the Stock price and the P/E ration . The calculation of the EPS is left as an exercise for the student Investor .
end question
start question
Pros & cons of buying gold directly vs. investing in a gold ETF like GLD , IAU , SGOL ?
Owning physical gold ( assuming coins ) : somewhat heavy risk of theft have to take it to a dealer to buy or sell there may be some spread over the market value of the gold , to cover the dealer 's expenses you can only really buy or sell in increments of " one coin " small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the dealer the actual ownership is free ( unless you need to pay for anti-theft insurance , a safe , etc ) Owning gold through a fund : more liquid and convenient ( it 's probably easy to buy and sell from a brokerage than to walk yourself down to a dealer ) ownership may qualify you for brokerage minimums of some sort or another you 're pretty much getting the exact same price for gold as all the hedge funds you can only really buy and sell in increments of " one share " the actual ownership is not free ( fund expenses ) small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the fund sponsor in times of extreme political chaos ( revolutions , etc ) there 's an elevated risk you wo n't actually be able to get a hold of it afterward there 's some international element to this depending on where the gold is actually held , so if it 's being held in ( say ) London and you 're in a politically-unstable third-world country or something it might be a better hedge against asset seizures than the physical thing
In a word , no . Diversification is the first rule of investing . Your plan has poor diversification because it ignores most of the economy ( large cap stocks ) . This means for the expected return your portfolio would get , you would bear an unnecessarily large amount of risk . Large cap and small cap stocks take turns outperforming each other . If you hold both , you have a safer portfolio because one will perform well while the other performs poorly . You will also likely want some exposure to the bond market . A simple and diversified portfolio would be a total market index fund and a total bond market fund . Something like 60 % in the equity and 40 % in the bonds would be reasonable . You may also want international exposure and maybe exposure to real estate via a REIT fund . You have expressed some risk-aversion in your post . The way to handle that is to take some of your money and keep it in your cash account and the rest into the diversified portfolio . Remember , when people add more and more asset classes ( large cap , international , bonds , etc. ) they are not increasing the risk of their portfolio , they are reducing it via diversification . The way to reduce it even more ( after you have diversified ) is to keep a larger proportion of it in a savings account or other guaranteed investment . BTW , your P2P lender investment seems like a great idea to me , but 60 % of your money in it sounds like a lot .
As I argued in the comment to your question , your assumption is flawed . Here are some facts that counter your assumption ( <URL> ) : Fact # 1 : Gold went from $ 105 in 1976 to $ 850 in January , 1980 . Consumer prices increased by about 28 % . Verify this <URL> . Fact # 2 : Gold went from $ 850 in 1980 to $ 256 in 2001 . Consumer prices more than doubled . Fact # 3 : Gold went from $ 256 in 2001 to $ 1,011 in March , 2008 . Consumer prices went up about 20 % . <URL> is also pretty good article on Comparing correlation between Gold and Inflation .
Converting Chris W. Rea 's comment into an answer See en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E-gold , e.g. " [ ... ] they are legally required to perform various sorts of " know your customer " background checks " and " e-gold initiated a value access plan that was approved by relevant governmental authorities in the U.S. Users would have access to the value in their accounts after submitting additional information to e-gold , and after a review of this information by the Court-appointed Claims Administrator and the U.S. Government . " Please verify with the Clamins Administrator
There are two sets of tax implications : ongoing yearly taxes , and tax when you sell . On an ongoing basis , I 'm assuming that your city , county , and/or state will extract property tax payment ( s ) from you on the additional property . According <URL> , this payment would be deductible : Deductible real estate taxes are generally any state , local , or foreign taxes on real property . ( But the deductibility is only going to matter if you are itemizing deductions . If you are n't , it 's just another expense . ) The second set of tax implications come when you decide to sell the lot : There will be ( federal ) capital gains tax associated with this , since it is not your primary residence . ( You could try to merge the lot with yours to avoid this tax , but I have no idea how this works in your area or if it would even be worth it in the end -- seems like there would be some other trade-offs . ) You may also have local capital gains taxes . Your locality may have a real estate transfer tax .
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
A good time to invest in gold WAS about ten years ago , when it had reached a 20-year bottom around $ 300 an ounce . That 's when I was buying ( gold stocks , not physical gold ) . Since then , it 's gone up 5-6 times in ten years . It might continue to go up of course , but it also has long way down to go , because it has come up " too far , too fast . " I have since sold my gold stocks . Alternatives to gold include other metals such as silver and copper ( which actually belong in the same chemical family ) as well as platinum and palladium . But they , too , have run up a lot in price over the past ten years .
There are bullion dealers who will buy gold no matter its form . You wo n't get the spot price as it 's probably being bought same as junk jewelry or any other gold needing to be melted and recast . If this is your concern , you should buy a fireproof safe , the kind people use to store their important documents , and add the gold value to home insurance policy . Do not get a safe deposit box at the bank , see mbhunter 's comment and link .
if you bought gold in late ' 79 , it would have taken 30 years to break even . Of all this time it was two brief periods the returns were great , but long term , not so much . Look at the ETF GLD if you wish to buy gold , and avoid most of the buy/sell spread issues . Edit - I suggest looking at <URL> and decide whether long term gold actually makes sense for you as an investor . It 's sold with the same enthusiasm as snake oil was in the 1800 's , and the suggestion that it 's a storehouse of value seems nonsensical to me .
Your ETF will return the interest as dividends . If you hold the ETF on the day before the Ex-Dividend date , you will get the dividend . If you sell before that , you will not . Note that at least one other answer to this question is wrong . You do NOT need to hold on the Record date . There is usually 2 days ( or so ) between the ex-date and the record date , which corresponds to the number of days it takes for your trade to settle . See the rules as published by the SEC : <URL>
You should fund the 401 ( k ) and get the 4 % matching because it 's free money . When you leave the US , patience is a virtue to get the money penalty-free : Rollover to an IRA . Take " <URL> " for 5 years or until age 59 1/2 , whichever is longer , to avoid the 10 % penalty . A long payout time for someone starting out , but penalty-free . Or you can take the 10 % penalty and take out the money all at once . You 'll still owe income tax in either case , something to keep in mind if an early withdrawal would put you into a higher tax bracket . Also see this article : <URL> Another thing to keep in mind is that you never know what might happen -- you could fall in love with the US ( or someone in the US , [ smiley face ] ) , apply for residency , decide to stay a long time , and that 401 ( k ) with the 4 % matching might turn out to have been a very nice thing when you retire .
I would estimate the total costs as somewhere from # 1,000 to # 3,000 . Stamp duty is indeed <URL> . It 's 1 % of the total house price in the range # 125,000 to # 250,000 . There was a temporary exemption for a while for first-time buyers , defined as never having owned a house before . That 's ended now , though . You need a <URL> when buying - usual cost is somewhere between a few hundred pounds and a couple of thousand , depending on how thorough it is . Generally the more thorough surveys are appropriate for older houses . You might also want specialist reports on things like the electric wiring and the plumbing . You need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to handle the legal aspects , and there are also a <URL> associated with those legal aspects . Typical total cost is # 500 - # 1000 . There might be a fee associated with getting a mortgage , but it depends entirely on the deal you get and should generally just be considered as part of the costs of the loan rather than the house purchase itself .
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
Owning physical gold ( assuming coins ) : somewhat heavy risk of theft have to take it to a dealer to buy or sell there may be some spread over the market value of the gold , to cover the dealer 's expenses you can only really buy or sell in increments of " one coin " small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the dealer the actual ownership is free ( unless you need to pay for anti-theft insurance , a safe , etc ) Owning gold through a fund : more liquid and convenient ( it 's probably easy to buy and sell from a brokerage than to walk yourself down to a dealer ) ownership may qualify you for brokerage minimums of some sort or another you 're pretty much getting the exact same price for gold as all the hedge funds you can only really buy and sell in increments of " one share " the actual ownership is not free ( fund expenses ) small but nonzero risk you 're being defrauded by the fund sponsor in times of extreme political chaos ( revolutions , etc ) there 's an elevated risk you wo n't actually be able to get a hold of it afterward there 's some international element to this depending on where the gold is actually held , so if it 's being held in ( say ) London and you 're in a politically-unstable third-world country or something it might be a better hedge against asset seizures than the physical thing
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
The power of compounding interest and returns is an amazing thing . Start educating yourself about investing , and do it -- there are great Q&amp;A s on this site , numerous books ( I recommend " The Intelligent Investor " , tools for small investors ( like Sharebuilder.com ) and other resources out there to get you started . Your portfolio does n't need to include every dime you have either . But you do need to develop the discipline to save money -- even if that savings is $ 20 while you 're in school . How you split between cash/deposit account savings and other investment vehicles is a decision that needs to make sense to you .
One risk with any investment denominated in foreign currency is the exchange rate risk . Specifically , if the value of your local currency increases relative to the Australian Dollar , then it has the potential to reduce , eliminate , or even give you a negative return on your investment unless you plan to keep the proceeds in Australian currency . Of course , this could work to your advantage to and enhance your return if your local currency gets weaker relative to the foreign currency .
An IAU share represents a smaller chunk of gold than a GLD share . GLD used to have a higher volume and better spread than IAU . These days I believe they are about the same .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
When you buy a futures contract you are entering into an agreement to buy gold , in the future ( usually a 3 month settlement date ) . this is not an OPTION , but a contract , so each party is taking risk , the seller that the price will rise , the buyer that the price will fall . Unlike an option which you can simply choose not to exercise if the price goes down , with futures you are obligated to follow through . ( or sell the contract to someone else , or buy it back ) The price you pay depends on the margin , which is related to how far away the settlement date is , but you can expect around 5 % , so the minimum you could get into is 100 troy ounces , at todays price , times 5 % . Since we 're talking about 100 troy ounces , that means the margin required to buy the smallest sized future contract would be about the same as buying 5 ounces of gold . roughly $ 9K at current prices . If you are working through a broker they will generally require you to sell or buy back the contract before the settlement date as they do n't want to deal with actually following through on the purchase and having to take delivery of the gold . How much do you make or lose ? Lets deal with a smaller change in the price , to be a bit more realistic since we are talking typically about a settlement date that is 3 months out . And to make the math easy lets bump the price of gold to $ 2000/ounce . That means the price of a futures contract is going to be $ 10K Lets say the price goes up 10 % , Well you have basically a 20:1 leverage since you only paid 5 % , so you stand to gain $ 20,000 . Sounds great right ? WRONG . . because as good as the upside is , the downside is just as bad . If the price went down 10 % you would be down $ 20000 , which means you would not only have to cough up the 10K you committed but you would be expected to ' top up the margin ' and throw in ANOTHER $ 10,000 as well . And if you ca n't pay that up your broker might close out your position for you . oh and if the price has n't changed , you are mostly just out the fees and commissions you paid to buy and sell the contract . With futures contracts you can lose MORE than your original investment . NOT for the faint of heart or the casual investor . NOT for folks without large reserves who can afford to take big losses if things go against them . I 'll close this answer with a quote from the site I 'm linking below The large majority of people who trade futures lose their money . That 's a fact . They lose even when they are right in the medium term , because futures are fatal to your wealth on an unpredicted and temporary price blip . Now consider that , especially the bit about ' price blip ' and then look at the current volatility of most markets right now , and I think you can see how futures trading can be as they say ' Fatal to your Wealth ' ( man , I love that phrase , what a great way of putting it ) This <URL> has a pretty decent primer on the whole thing . their view is perhaps a bit biased due to the nature of their business , but on the whole their description of how things work is pretty decent . <URL> has a more detailed ( and perhaps more objective ) tutorial on the futures thing . Well worth your time if you think you want to do anything related to the futures market .
end question
start question
Why do credit cards come with insurance , and what is the benefit for the user ?
I believe the insurance you are talking about is the type of insurance that makes your payment in the event you ca n't pay due to some specific reasons . These types of insurance are profit centers for the credit card companies and are generally not worth it for the consumer . You are better off picking the best credit card that meets your needs and then finding your insurance needs separately . Typically , the best credit card payment insurance plan is to not carry a balance and have a reasonable emergency fund . Putting the money that would have gone to insurance towards those two goals will likely help you more than paying for the credit card insurance policy .
This is generally a legal question , and depends on the laws of your state ( where you were insured , not where you live now ) , and the contract ( policy ) you had with your insurer . Generally , insurance policies include provisions where you are required to co-operate with the insurer in order for insurer to defend you . This includes depositions and court appearances . Some policies include compensation for time , others do n't , you 'll need to look into your policy for details . Waivers are granted by the court , not by the insurer , and since you 're the one being sued I 'd guess ( not being a lawyer or a legal professional of any kind ) that it would be in your best interests to do everything in your defense . You need to remember that insurance policy is not a " send and forget " thing . You have to work with them . They 're defending you , it 's your $ 70K on the line , and if you do not help them - they 'll just leave you hanging there on your own .
From the comments , it sounds like you have a technical background . So I 'm going to suggest you think of this as a technical problem : it 's an optimization problem , where the variable you 're trying to optimize for is total interest paid over the lifetime of the loans . Step 1 is making sure you 're using the credit available to you most efficiently . If there 's room in the credit limit for card # 1 to move more of your debt there , then definitely move your balances from the higher-interest cards . However , be careful ; some cards will have different interest rates for balance transfers or cash advances . And definitely do n't move any principal from Card # 3 until the 0 % interest rate expires . Pursuing a bank loan as part of step 1 is valid as well . You could start with the bank you use for your checking account today . Credit unions can be a good source of lower-interest loans as well . Ensure that you fully understand the terms and interest rates , particularly if they change . Just be careful about applying for them ; too many rejections can affect your credit rating negatively . You also mention in the comments that you 're paying " her " mortgage . I do n't know how the ownership is set up there , but either refinancing or taking out a home equity loan can be a way to consolidate debt . The interest rate on a home loan will almost assuredly be less than on your higher rate cards , especially taking the tax deduction into account . Step 2 is paying down the debt efficiently . The rule here is simple : Pay the minimum payment on all cards except for the one with the highest interest rate ; any money you have above the minimum payments should go into paying down the principal on that one . In your case , that 's Card # 2 . Good luck !
These are <URL> allocated to the plan . If necessary , a company issues new shares ( depending on a company it may require shareholders or only board approval ) .
I believe you are talking about Public Provident Fund and National Savings Certificate schemes in India . <URL> - > Deposit money - > If you want to take a loan after 3 years , you can take out 25 % of the balance in your PPF account . <URL> - > Money locked for 6 years and can only be encashed after 3 years , you cancel your deposit and encash all your money . Money is safe in both cases , because they are secured by the Indian government . But interest ( 8.75 % at present for both in 2014-15 financial year ) is compunded anually for PPF , but half yearly for NSC . So you get a higher interest rate in case of NSC . So if you can lock in your money , without any need for withdrawls , choose a NSC for higher returns . Tax rebate wise , both are same .
So " Operation Twist " is actually a pretty simple concept . Here 's the break down : The Fed sells short-term treasury bonds that it already holds on its books . Short-term treasury bonds refer to - bonds that mature in less than three years . Then : Uses that money to buy long term treasury bonds . Long-term treasury bonds refer to - bonds that mature in six to 30 years The reason : The fed buys these longer-term treasuries to lower longer-term interest rates and encourage more borrowing and spending . Diving deeper into how it works : So the Fed can easily determine short-term rates by using the <URL> this rate has a direct effect on the following : credit card rates adjustable-rate mortgages interest on savings accounts and CD 's Prime Rate ( home equity lines are based on this ) However this does not play a direct role in influencing the rate of long-term loans ( what you might pay on a 30-year fixed mortgage ) . Instead , long-term rates are determined by investors who buy and sell bonds in the bond market , which changes daily . These bond yields fluctuate depending on the health of the economy and inflation . However , the Fed funds rate does play an indirect role in these rates . So now that we know a little more about what effects what rate , why does lower long-term rates in treasuries influence my 30yr fixed mortgage ? Well when you are looking for a loan you are entering a market and competing against other people , by people I mean anyone looking for money ( e.g : my grandmother , companies , or the US government ) . The bank that lends you money has to decide weather the deal you are offering them is better then another deal on the market . If the risk of lending to one person is the same as the risk of lending to another , the bank will make whichever loan yields the higher interest rate . The U.S. government is considered a very safe borrower , so much so that government bonds are considered almost " risk free " , but because of the lower risk the rate of return is lower . So now the bank has to factor in this risk and make its decision weather to lend you money , or the government . So , if the government were to go to the market and buy its own long-term bonds it is adding demand in the market causing the price of the bond to rise in effect lowering the interest rate ( <URL> ) . So when you go back and ask for a loan it has to re-evaluate and decide " Is it worth giving this money to Joe McFreeBeer instead and collecting a higher yield ? " ( After all , Joe McFreeBeer is a nice guy ) . Here 's an example : Lets say the US has a rating of 10 out of 10 and its bonds pay a 2 % yield . Now lets say for each lower mark in rating the bank will lend at a minimum of 1 % higher and your rating is 8 of 10 . So if you go to market , the lowest rate you can get will be 4 % . Now lets say price rises on the US treasury and causes the rate to go down by 1 % . In this scenario you will now be able to get a loan for 3 % and someone with a rating of 7 of 10 would be able to get that 4 % loan . Here 's some more info and explinations : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
It is in dollars , but US government can not " print " dollars . That 's prerogative of the Federal Reserve , which is formally an independent institution . They sometimes do something that amounts to " printing money " - heard about " quantitative easing " ? That 's it . But US Treasury ca n't do that . To fund whatever US Govt needs money for , it can get money in two ways : collect taxes or sell bonds ( i.e. take loans ) . Since most of the budgets recently run a deficit , that means US Govt collects less taxes than it spends . The difference is covered with loans , or bonds . So the debt is the sum of all government bonds held by individuals or foreign nations . As many of the lottery/casino winners have learned , the key to financial soundness is to have more income than spending . If you spend more than you got , it does n't matter how much you 've got - you 'll end up broke . US Government , for political reasons , routinely <URL> - because for politicians , spending gets them elected , while austerity gets them hated . Thus US debt is growing . Private people and foreign government gave those loans to US government . They do it because they consider it relatively safe investment and they get interest on it - just as you would do if you have savings account . Your savings account is a loan to a bank and earns you interest . US Government bond is a loan to the government and earns them interest . In fact , most of the bonds more like CD ( certificate of deposit ) than savings account , since they are given for a fixed amount of time - 5 , 10 , 20 , etc. years . There are shorter and longer term bonds , but in any case you can not demand payment before the term ( though you can sell the bond and recover the money , but somebody then needs to buy it from you ) . Since most of the people trust that US Government is not going under any time soon , since , as you noted , US is wealthy , they are content with investing their money and getting the interest . The size of the debt is not dangerous until there 's doubt that the debtor can repay - and the fear is that we approaching this threshold . It 's like somebody taking a mortgage - if you have good income , you can take a big mortgage , but the bank will ( or supposed to , at least :) related the mortgage size with your repayment ability . So far US repayment ability was found adequate by people , but if we abuse it , it may change and then US is up for the tough times - just as if someone stops paying the mortgage . In this case , both sides lose - the investors lose their investment or at least see it diminish and the US loses its credibility and thus ability to take more loans . Nobody wants it happen , so politicians from all countries try to work together to prevent it . We 'll see how good they manage to do it .
It looks like Capital One does not charge foreign transaction fees . <URL> Also on Capital One 's FAQ site : <URL>
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
Usually their PE ratio will just be listed as 0 or blank . Though I 've always wondered why they do n't just list the negative PE as from a straight math standpoint it makes sense . PE while it can be a useful barometer for a company , but certainly does not tell you everything . A company could have negative earnings for a lot of reasons , some good and some bad . The company could just be a bad company and could be losing money hand over fist , or the company could have had a one time occurrence such as a big acquisition or some other event that just affected this years earnings , or they could be an awesome high growth company that is heavily investing for their future and forgoing locking in profits now for much bigger profits in the future . Generally IPO company 's fall into that last category as they are going public usually because they want an influx of cash that they are going to use to grow the company much more rapidly . So they are likely already taking all incoming $ $ and taking on debt to grow the company and have exceeded all of those options and that 's when they turn to the stock market for the additional influx of cash , so it is very common for these companies not to have earnings . Now you just have to decide if that company is investing that money wisely and will in the future translate to actual earnings .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
First , calculating interest on your bank account daily makes the most sense because your balance in a bank account typically fluctuates throughout the month : that is , you make deposits , and you make withdrawals . If the bank calculated interest only at the end of the month , say , based on your balance at that point in time , then it might not be fair to either you or the bank . Depending on whether your end-of-month balance was higher than average , or lower than average , either you or the bank would come out ahead . So , by calculating interest daily the bank is , in effect , arriving at an amount of interest on some form of average balance , which is more fair to both of you . However , even though interest may be calculated daily , it is typically only credited to your account once per month . Imagine the mess it would make on your statement if it were credited daily ! Regarding calculating interest in Excel , have a look at the <URL> . See also <URL> . For instance , if the nominal annual interest rate were 5 % and you wanted to know what the effective annual interest rate is with monthly compounding , you would write , which would yield , or ~ 5.116 % . A longer form in lieu of the Excel function is what you 'll find explained at <URL> , i.e. the formula . Or , in Excel , to match the example above . Also yields . However , each of the methods above to compute the effective annual interest rate is only appropriate if you want to know the future value some years hence but without any inflows or outflows . Once you have a situation where you are making deposits or withdrawals , you 'll want to create a spreadsheet that calculates the daily interest and adds it to the ongoing balance on a monthly frequency . To arrive at the actual amount of interest you would need to accrue for a single day , you would divide the original interest rate by 360 or 365 . ( Bank rules on this may vary -- I 'm not exactly sure . ) So , the daily interest on a balance of , say , $ 1000 would be , yielding or 14 cents if rounded up to the nearest penny . Of course , you need to know the rounding rules . Perhaps rounding is done on each day 's resulting interest ( before summing ) , or on the sum of the month 's resulting interest . Plus , <URL> Again , I 'm not exactly sure on this . In constructing a spreadsheet to calculate interest this way , you should not be adding the daily interest to the ongoing balance directly , but rather accrue the interest in a separate spot off to the side somewhere until the end of the month . At which point , sum up all of the daily interest earned and add it to the ongoing balance . Consider : If you were to credit the ongoing balance each day with that day 's interest , then you would , in effect , be performing daily compounding instead . By adding the interest to the ongoing balance only once per month , the compounding is in effect monthly , even though the interest is calculated on the daily balance . Here 's a link to <URL> .
Like you said , it 's important to keep your personal assets and company assets completely separate to maintain the liability protection of the LLC . I 'd recommend getting the business bank account right from the beginning . My wife formed an LLC last year ( also as a pass-through sole proprietorship for tax purposes ) , and we were able to get a small business checking account from Savings Institute and Trust that has no fees ( at least for the relatively low quantity of transactions we 'll be doing ) . We wrote it a personal check for startup capital , and since then , the LLC has paid all of its own bills out of its checking account ( with associated debit card ) . Getting the account opened took less than an hour of sitting at the bank . Without knowing exactly where you are in Kentucky , I note that Googling " kentucky small business checking " and visiting a few banks ' web sites provided several promising options for no-fee business checking .
According to <URL> , this started out as a way to fund health insurance and unemployment insurance , and has gradually increased its scope to cover pensions . At least in part , what you can claim back from these systems is connected to what you paid into them - you ca n't just work one week and then claim 51 weeks of unemployment benefit , or a full pension - which makes them different from taxes . As well , the money collected is not supposed to go into general government revenue , but to be used only for the specific programs it funds . The UK is certainly not the only country where employees and employers send a fraction of each paycheque to the government for purposes other than income tax . Here in Canada we have Employment Insurance and Canada Pension Plan contributions as well as income tax that come off every paycheque . It 's just the way the system works - not everything that the government collects as your income is paid to you is in fact an income tax . There are advantages to all of us to keep these accounts separate - I do n't want my pension money spent on a road by someone who wants to get re-elected 20 years before my pension needs to be paid .
It 's a real pain in the rear to get cash only from a bank teller ( the end result of cutting the card as suggested ) . There is a self control issue here that , like weight loss , should ultimately be addressed for a psychologically healthy lifestyle . You do n't mention a budget here . A budget is one of the first tools necessary for setting spending limits . Categorizing your money into inviolable categories , such as : savings ( in a savings account separate from your debit/checking account ) home auto grocery fun stuff ( clothes , toys , electronics etc. ) will force you to look at any purchase in context of your other needs and goals . Note that savings is at the top of the list , supporting the aphorism to , " Pay yourself first . " Make realistic allowances for each budget category , then force yourself to stick to this budget by whatever means necessary . Cash in several envelopes labeled with each category can physically reinforce your priorities ( the debit card is usually left at home for now ) . Roll remaining funds from each month over into the next month to cover irregular larger expenses , such as auto repairs . What sort of investing are we talking about ? If you are just talking about retirement savings , an automatic deduction of just $ 50 to a Roth IRA account at a discount brokerage every pay check is a good start . An emergency fund of 6 months expenses is also common financial advice , and can likewise be built from small automatic deductions . In defense of wise use of plastic , a debit card can be a great retroactive budgeting tool because it records all spending for you . It takes a lot more effort to save and enter receipts for cash , and a compulsive spender without a budget is just as likely to run out of money whether or not he uses plastic . You could keep receipts in the envelope you take the cash out of when you 're getting started . If you are so addicted to spending that you must cut your debit card to enforce your budget , at least consider this a temporary measure to get yourself under control . When the bank issues you a new card , re-evaluate this decision and the self control measures you 've implemented to see if you 've grown enough to keep the card .
It 's harder than you think . Once card companies start seeing your debt to credit line ratios climb , they will slash your credit lines quickly . Also , cash credit lines are always much smaller , so in reality , such a scheme would require you to buy goods that can be converted to cash , which dilutes your gains and makes it more likely that you 're going to get detected and busted . Think of the other problems . Where do you store your ill-gotten gains ? How do you get the money out of the country ? How will your actions affect your family and friends ? Also , most people are basically good people -- the prospect of defrauding $ 100k , leaving family and friends behind and living some anonymous life in a third world country is n't an appealing one . If you are criminally inclined , building up a great credit history is not very practical -- most criminals are by nature reactive and want quick results .
WilliamKF explained it pretty well , but I want to put it in a more simplistic form : Stock : You own certain part of the company . The value of the stock derives from the value of the company . Bond : You lend money to the company . Company owes you money , but you do n't own a part in it . The value of the bond derives from the current rates , remaining payments on the loan , and company 's ability to make them .
It 's a good idea to have some emergency money so I would propose a plan that keeps some in your savings : Pay off the ones with 2 % in full . Take your time with the one that is at 0 % . You are n't losing any money on it . If the 0 % goes away , then consider paying it off , but by that time hopefully you have built up your savings a bit more . Also consider the ability to move the balance from the 2 % cards to the 0 % one , if that is possible .
In theory , yes . In practice : Most cards charge a 3 % or so fee on balance transfer . If you slip and let you balance go past " free balance transfer " time limits , you 'll quickly pay more in interest than you gained from keeping free credit around . You 'll need an endless supply of free transfer cards to keep shuffling it around - what if one day it so happens that none is offering it right now and your current free transfer is about to expire ? Again , you 'll pay a lot . Doing this ( opening new accounts frequently ) may hurt your credit rating , which may hurt your chance of getting new deals , which would lead to problems described above . So it can be gamed , but the odds are not on your side :)
Michael McGowan 's answer is correct . The HDHP is like conventional insurance -- it is not like a " health care plan " that we 're all used to . I.e. you do n't want to have it pay out -- if it pays out , something bad has happened to you . ( Just like you hope to never make a claim on your homeowner 's , disability , or AD&amp;D insurance -- that means something bad happened to you . ) There are minor exceptions -- some HDHPs may cover preventive care , immunizations , etc to some extent . The bonus in the case of the HDHP is that you get to put money to cover the deductible into a tax deferred account . The HSA is effectively a self insurance fund with the HDHP as backup . Here 's a concrete example . Say you have an HDHP with a $ 2500 deductible . The monthly premium is $ 500 . You put $ 3000 into your HSA . Scenario 1 : You remain mostly healthy throughout the year . You have a single doctor 's visit , the doctor 's office submits a claim to your insurance . The insurance does n't pay because you have n't met your deductible , and you get a bill for $ 150 . You write the doctor a check for $ 150 out of your HSA . Here , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums , contributed $ 3000 to your HSA , and spent $ 150 of that on health care . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 2850 . In the following year , assume you plan to contribute another $ 3000 to your HSA . You can increase your deductible on the HDHP to $ 5000 ( since you 'll have $ 6000 in your HSA to cover out of pocket costs ) and your monthly premium might go down to $ 400 . Scenario 2 : You are hospitalized for a week . The hospital submits a $ 15000 claim to your insurance . The insurance pays $ 12500 since your deductible is met after $ 2500 . The hospital sends you a bill for $ 2500 for the balance . You write a check to the hospital out of your HSA . Again , you 've spent $ 6000 on your HDHP premiums and contributed $ 3000 to your HSA . At the end of the year , your HSA balance is $ 500 . Scenario 3 : You are hospitalized for two days in December 2011 , and then again for two days in January 2012 . Your deductible reset on January 1 , 2012 . The hospital submits two claims to your insurance : one in 2011 for $ 5000 and one in 2012 for $ 5000 . The insurance company pays $ 2500 on the first one and you get a bill for the other $ 2500 . Same thing for the second one -- you 've got to meet the deductible all over again . You write the hospital a check from your HSA to pay the first one . Then you 've only got $ 500 left in your HSA . But you were planning to make another $ 3000 HSA contribution for 2012 anyway , so you make the contribution , write a $ 2500 check to pay the second bill , and you 've now got a balance of $ 1000 in your HSA -- and since you 've met the deductible for 2012 you should have no more out of pocket expenses . ( Assuming your plan does n't have copays . )
end question
start question
Any good free personal financial ' planning/planner/projection ' services ?
I use <URL> . It 's a bit more like Quickbooks than plain Quicken , but it 's not all that complicated . Probably the most difficult part is understanding the idea of income accounts . Benefits : freely available on Windows , OSX and Linux open source online transaction pull from supported banks / other institutions , with bayesian transaction matching to eliminate duplicates supports multiple currencies , and most any ticker symbol you can imagine scheduled transactions can help you plan expenses and income before they occur the file format is either xml , sqlite or SQL database ( mysql , postgres ) , so the programmatically inclined can a budget sheet and historical estimator ( But really i just prefer scheduled transactions and a spreadsheet ) For short term planning , I use scheduled transactions . If I 'm spending more than I have , it 'll show up here . Every paycheck and dollar spent or invested is recorded with the exact date I anticipate it will happen , 30 days in advance . If that would overdraw my checking account , the Future Minimum Balance field will go negative and red . This lets me move float to higher interest savings and retirement funds , and avoids overdraft fees or other mishaps . By looking 30 days ahead in detail , I have enough time to transfer from illiquid assets . For longer term planning , I keep a spreadsheet around that plans out annual expenses . If I 'm spending more than I earn , it shows up here . I estimate everything : expenses , savings , taxes , and income . I need this because I have a lot of expenses that are far less frequent than monthly or paycheck-ly . The beauty of it is that once I 've got it in place , I can duplicate the sheet and consider tweaks for say taking a new job or moving , or even just changing an insurance plan ( probably less relevant for those with access to NHS ) . Especially when moving to take a new job , it 's not as straightforward as comparing salaries , and thus having a document for the status quo to start from lets you focus on the parts that changed .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
The number of days you could sustain your current lifestyle if you stopped working for money today
I had n't heard of it , but it looks legitimate to me . In the fine print on the product description page , it mentions that the account is backed by Radius Bank , which is a real <URL> ( so it 's at least not transparently a scam ) . One caveat to note in the fine print on the product page you link to is that the 1.00 % APY applies only to balances over $ 2500 , but it does apply to the whole balance in that case , not just the excess amount . For lower-value accounts , the APY is 0.25 % . For comparison , I 'm currently getting 0.75 % in my Capital One 360 savings account and 0.20 % in checking . The US dollar 1-month <URL> * is 0.19700 % , and 1-year is 0.93260 % , as of 2015-11-13 . So the rates are very good but not ridiculous : in my humble assessment , they 're probably not making much profit on them , but they 're not taking much of a loss , either . The structure of the outright fees seems in line with what the good deals from other banks often look like . The above assessment ( interest rates are priced roughly " at cost " ) seems consistent with their philosophy as described on their website . See , for example , <URL> in their FAQ : We work for tips . The only money we make is what you decide to pay us . We let you choose an amount from $ 0 to $ 6 a month when you first sign up for an account and you can change it any time . You get charged on a monthly basis at whatever level you 've chosen on the last day of the month . We 've designed it so that you 're under no legal obligation to pay us . However , having worked hard to create and operate the Aspiration Summit Account for you , we hope we can count on you ! Fair enough , but be careful about how generous you get with the tips ! Six dollars a month on a $ 2500 balance is 6 / 2500 * 12 = 2.88 % per year , a significant fee in bank-world . So , in conclusion : Be aware that the 1 % APY applies only if you keep a balance over $ 2500 . The interest rates and fees are a good deal , but not so far out of line with the market so as to arouse suspicion . They appear to run their main operation " at cost , " and earn their profit on a " pay what you think is fair " model . Be aware that the tips can be deceptively high . * LIBOR is the London interbank offered rate , a measure of what interest big banks charge each other . " 1-month " and " 1-year " refer to the interest rates for loans the banks will pay back in one month and one year , respectively .
No , as far as I know , a free credit report is only available by mail . Here 's <URL> with contact information for Equifax and TransUnion for ordering a credit report by mail . Also note that anyone offering free online credit reports in Canada is lying through their teeth . There are a couple sites out there ( e.g. , canadafreecreditscore.ca , freecreditreportsincanada.ca ) that offer a " free " online credit report in seconds , but that 's just the hook line and sinker for <URL> . Not sure of the details , but I generally avoid anything that 's not Equifax or TransUnion for credit reports .
All interest rates are in the toilet so 1.3 % is n't bad considering . There do n't appear to be any show-stopper restrictions from my cursory look at the FAQ .
" add the interest for the next 5 payments and divide that by how much you paid on the principal during that time " Let 's see - on a $ 200K 6 % loan , the first 5 months is $ 4869 . Principal reduction is $ 1127 . I get 4.32 or 432 % . But this is nonsense , you divide the interest over the mortgage balance , and get 6 % . You only get those crazy numbers by dividing meaningless ratios . The fact that early on in a mortgage most of the payment goes to interest is a simple fact of the the 30 year nature of amortizing . You are in control , just add extra principal to the payment , if you wish . This idea sounds like the Money Merge Account peddled by UFirst . It 's a scam if ever there was one . I wrote about it extensively on my site and have <URL> . Once you get to this page , the first link is for a free spreadsheet to download , it beats MMA every time and shows how prepaying works , no smoke , no mirrors . The second link is a 65 page PDF that compiles nearly all my writing on this topic as I was one of the finance bloggers doing what I could to expose this scam . I admit it became a crusade , I went as far as buying key word ads on google to attract the search for " money merge account " only to help those looking to buy it find the truth . In the end , I spent a few hundred dollars but saved every visitor the $ 3500 loss of this program . No agent who dialoged with me in public could answer my questions in full , as they fell back on " you need to believe in it . " I have no issue with faith-based religion , it actually stands to reason , but mortgages are numbers and there 's order to them . If you want my $ 3500 , you should know how your system works . Not one does , or they would know it was a scam . Nassim Taleb , author of " The Black Swan " offered up a wonderful quote , " if you see fraud , and do not say ' fraud , ' you are a fraud . " The site you link to is n't selling a product , but a fraudulent idea . What 's most disturbing to me is that the math to disprove his assertion is not complex , not beyond grade school arithmetic . Update 2015 - The linked " rule of thumb " is still there . Still wrong of course . Another scam selling software to do this is now promoted by a spin off of UFirst , called Worth Unlimited . Same scam , new name .
We use <URL> to handle our household budget - their latest version allows cloud sync between Android/iOS devices and various desktop installs . I have the budget folder shared with my wife 's Dropbox account so we both an view the budget , enter spending , and make changes .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
Growth phase When you 're estimating how much you 'll have saved at retirement , subtract the average rate of inflation from your estimate of how much your savings will grow each year . For example , if you expect your retirement account to grow at 8 % a year , and you expect inflation to be 3 % each year , use 5 % as the estimated growth rate instead of 8 % . Withdrawal phase Once you reach retirement , add an estimate for the inflation rate to your annual withdrawal rate . For example , say you 've reached retirement with $ 1 million . If you expect to withdraw 4 % each year , but you expect inflation to average 1 % each year after you retire , plan on withdrawing 5 % a year instead of 4 % . This lets you adjust for the decrease in the purchasing power of your money . For example , you may spend $ 40K/year to maintain your current lifestyle . However , depending on your age , $ 40K a year might not be enough to maintain that lifestyle at retirement because of the effects of inflation . At retirement , you might need $ 50K instead . <URL> to the question " Saving for retirement : How much is enough ? " is also worth a read too .
IANAL ( and nor am I an accountant ) , so I ca n't give a definitive answer as to legality , but AFAIK , what you propose is legal . But what 's the benefit ? Avoiding corporation tax ? It 's simplistic -- and costly -- to think in terms like that . You need to run the numbers for different scenarios , and make a plan . You can end up ahead of the game precisely by choosing to pay some corporate tax each year . Really ! Read on . One of the many reasons that self-employed Canadians sometimes opt for a corporate structure over being a sole proprietor is to be able to not pay themselves everything the company earns each year . This is especially important when a business has some really good years , and others , meh . Using the corporation to retain earnings can be more tax effective . Example : Imagine your corporation earns , net of accounting &amp; other non-tax costs except for your draws , $ 120,000 / year for 5 years , and $ 0 in year 6 . Assume the business is your only source of income for those 6 years . Would you rather : Pay yourself the entire $ 120,000 / yr in years 1-5 , then $ 0 in year 6 ( living off personal savings you hopefully accumulated earlier ) , subjecting the $ 120,000 / yr to personal income tax only , leaving nothing in the corporation to be taxed ? Very roughly speaking , assuming tax rates &amp; brackets are level from year to year , and using <URL> calculator ( which simplifies certain things ) , then in Ontario , then you 'd net ~ $ 84,878 / yr for years 1-5 , and $ 0 in year 6 . Overall , you realized $ 424,390 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600,000 was 29.26 % . vs. Pay yourself only $ 100,000 / yr in years 1-5 , leaving $ 20,000 / yr subject to corporation tax . Assuming a 15.5 % combined federal/provincial corporate tax rate ( includes the <URL> ) , then the corp. is left with $ 16,900 / yr to add to retained earnings in years 1-5 . In year 6 , the corp. has $ 84,500 in retained earnings to be distributed to you , the sole owner , as a dividend ( of the non-eligible kind . ) Again , very roughly speaking , you 'd personally net $ 73,560 / yr in years 1-5 , and then on the $ 84,500 dividend in year 6 , you 'd net $ 73,658 . Overall , you realized $ 441,458 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600K was 26.42 % . i.e. Scenario 2 , which spreads the income out over the six years , saved 2.84 % in tax , or $ 14,400 . Smoothing out your income is also a prudent thing to do . Would you rather find yourself in year 6 , having no clients and no revenue , with nothing left to draw on ? Or would you rather the company had saved money from the good years to pay you in the lean one ?
<URL> says you have to use fair market value . You can not simply use a depreciated value . You should attempt to determine what people normally pay for comparable items , and be prepared to defend your determination with evidence in the event of an audit .
If you can borrow for an asset that gives you income that 's more than the cost of carrying the debt , then go for it . But the kinds of debts you have now are n't those kinds of debt , so get rid of them .
While I 've never used Wall Street Survivor , I took a look over the marketing materials and I 've seen multiple similar contests run among investment interns also just out of college . I see some good here and some bad . First off , I love interactive web-based tutorials . I 've used one to learn the syntax of a new programming language and I find the instant feedback and the ability to work at your own pace very useful . The reviews seem to say that Wall Street Survivor is a good way to learn the basics of how trading stocks works and the lingo . Also , it seems pretty fun which <URL> . Wall Street Survivor will hopefully teach you that there are many real stock markets and that they may have somewhat different prices and they likely take the real and timely data from a single market . Wall Street Survivor also frightens me . The big problem that I see with interns running similar contests is that the market is extremely random over short to medium periods of time . An intern can make an awful portfolio or even pick stocks at random and still win the contest . These interns know a lot about the randomness in markets already so they do n't believe they are trading geniuses because they won a contest , I 'm not sure there is much to temper this view on this web-site . Also , while Wall Street Survivor teaches you about trading it does n't appear to teach you about investing . The website appears to encourage short term views and <URL> and does n't seem to simulate the full trading costs ( including fees ) that would eat away at the gains of a individual investor that trades that much . It gives some help with longer term thinking like diversification , but also seems to encourage trading that makes Wall Street Survivor more money , but are likely detrimental to the user . I would say have fun with Wall Street Survivor . Let it teach you some things about trading , but do n't give the site much if any money . At the same time , pick up a copy of short book called " <URL> " and start learning about investing at the same time . Feel free to come back to Stack Exchange with questions along the way .
There are some pitfalls to be aware of , as I recently found . The irs does not distinguish between your different Ira accounts when assessing taxes on conversions . If , in addition to funding a traditional Ira with post-tax dollars , you have traditional ira 's that were funded with pre-tax dollars , your conversion to Roth will create a taxable event for the pre-tax traditional accounts . An often-cited example would be if you had an employer-sponsored retirement plan ( 401k for example ) that was funded on a pre-tax basis , that you rolled over to a traditional Ira after you left that employer . If this applies to you , I recommend further reading on the pro-rata rule . If you do n't have any pre-tax traditional iras , I am not aware of any issues with the backdoor Roth approach . For more info -- <URL> .
putting tax free investments into your traditional IRA I 'm not religious , but I know there 's a special place in hell for anyone advising this . Your Roth is tax free regardless of what was held inside . Your traditional IRA if funded with pre-tax money , is 100 % taxed on withdrawals regardless of what was invested in the account . I 'll give the author the benefit of the doubt and assume you misunderstood . I see Ed Slott wrote the introduction to that book , and Mr Slott knows his stuff . If not , the author got it very wrong .
While Warren Buffet does hold nearly 100 % of his wealth in BRK , he does have a personal retirement account of a few million USD at last disclosure . Individual accounts are not for public consumption ; however , he has revealed that he invests in a similar manner as he did as managing partner of Buffett Partnership , Ltd. and its predecessors , in far smaller companies than the current BRK holdings .
I 'd approach the lender that you 're getting the lease from , but be prepared for them either saying ' no ' to putting the lease into the name of an LLC without any proven track record ( because it has n't been around for a while ) or require you to sign a personal guarantee , which partially defeats the purpose of putting the car lease into the LLC . I 'd also talk to an accountant to see if you ca n't just charge the business the mileage on your vehicle as that might be the simplest solution , especially if the lender gets stroppy . Of course the mileage rate might not cover the expense for the lease as that one is designed to cover the steepest part of the depreciation curve . Does your LLC generate the revenue needed so it can take on the lease in the first place ? If it 's a new business you might not need or want the drain on your finances that a lease can be .
The most obvious answer is by referral . A friend or loved one who had a good experience with this process . I 'd suggest you first research the topic itself on your own . If you read a few books on this topic just to get an understanding , you 'll know better what to ask during the process itself , and you 'll better gauge the attorney 's expertise . The one key thing I 'd suggest is that you not go with a generalist . You need to use an attorney who only does estate planning along with the sub topics you seek . There 's enough for them to keep on top of in the way of changing laws that you do n't want a jack-of-all-trades . Her office may also handle real estate closings ( for example ) but you want her to be 100 % focused . I 've had dealings with a full service firm , but each lawyer had a narrow expertise .
<URL> Mr D receives a dividend of # 100 cash from his Limited Company . The way tax credits work means that this actually represents only 90 % of the tax charge so to work out the taxable income it needs to be ' grossed up ' to 100 % . You do this by taking the 100 , dividing it by 90 then multiplying it by 100 , giving # 111.11 . For the purposes of a tax return this is the dividend income . Next you need to think about how much tax should be paid . This depends on which tax bracket you fall into : Basic rate tax payers pay 0 % on dividends Dividend income = # 111.11 Incurring tax of : Tax charge at 10 % = # 11.11 Less 10 % tax credit = - # 11.11 Tax due = # 0 So as I said this results in income tax of 0 % . Though on your tax return you have to go through all those steps . As the author puts it , just the vagaries of ministers and to confuse mere mortals . Primarily the credit is because you have already paid corporation tax on the income , so a bit of relief and not to tax you twice .
end question
start question
If both spouse employers offer dependent care FSAs , can I use both for the same child ?
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
It is n't the first initiative ( see link below ) and maybe this one will stick around . Time will be a good test . Here is an article on it ... <URL> They plan to make money off unused balances - so they hope to get the masses signed up using the 0 $ fees . Also , no type of advanced trading , just limit and market orders . Think of it this way - even if someone puts in 100 $ and buys a stock at 88 $ ... that 12 $ sits there . Multiply that by say ... 200,000 accounts and then do a basic 3 % return on that . Also , they plan for margin accounts in the future . Time will tell ... sort of like I use Acorn right now ( but it charges a fee to invest - a slightly higher than normal one ) . I signed up for fun and am just letting it ride .
Yes , it 's true . The benefit in question is Canada 's Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) . The UCCB was introduced in the <URL> . The UCCB provides " all families with $ 100 per month for each child under age 6 . " Benefits began in July , 2006 . What 's confusing is how to apply for the UCCB . When UCCB was introduced , there existed another benefit called the Canada Child Tax Benefit ( CCTB ) . When introducing UCCB , the government decided it would be more efficient to have a single application process for all child benefits . In order to get UCCB , you would apply under the existing application process for CCTB . Unfortunately : The application form for CCTB does n't mention the UCCB at all ! The CCTB is income-tested , meaning if your family makes more than a certain amount of income , you do n't qualify for CCTB , which may incorrectly lead you to believe you should n't apply ! You should apply anyway for CCTB , even if you do n't expect CCTB benefits . Applying for CCTB gets you in the system to receive UCCB , which is not income-tested . ( But , UCCB benefits are taxable . ) Here 's the necessary form : <URL> . Even after updates since 2006 , it still does n't mention UCCB , but it does say " Complete this form to apply for all child benefit programs . " Here are some other resources about the UCCB : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
The rules can be a bit complicated , and depend on whether having the care in place provided you the opportunity to work or seek employment . From <URL> To be work-related , your expenses must allow you to work or look for work . If you are married , generally both you and your spouse must work or look for work . One spouse is treated as working during any month he or she is a full-time student or is not physically or mentally able to care for himself or herself . Your work can be for others or in your own business or partnership . It can be either full time or part time . Work also includes actively looking for work . However , if you do not find a job and have no earned income for the year , you can not take this credit . See Earned Income Test , earlier . An expense is not considered work-related merely because you had it while you were working . The purpose of the expense must be to allow you to work . Whether your expenses allow you to work or look for work depends on the facts . Consequently , it really depends on your employment status , but there are requirements to determine if the nature of the program is a " care center " . A dependent care center is a place that provides care for more than six persons ( other than persons who live there ) and receives a fee , payment , or grant for providing services for any of those persons , even if the center is not run for profit . To determine whether a dependent over aged 13 can qualify ( the age limits are different for the Child and Dependent Care credit than for whether the child can be your dependent ) : Physically or mentally not able to care for oneself . Persons who can not dress , clean , or feed themselves because of physical or mental problems are considered not able to care for themselves . Also , persons who must have constant attention to prevent them from injuring themselves or others are considered not able to care for themselves . The IRS would probably require you to have some form of medical documentation of the condition of the individual that is being cared for . The receipts would be required if your return was audited , but as long as you have them , you do n't need to enclose them . Since much of this answer depends on your individual situation , it 's best to consult with an EA/CPA or attorney that knows all of the facts of your return .
401 ( k ) and 403 ( b ) plans may have different rules , depending on the plan ( read the plan documents for more details ) , but in general they can be inherited without tax penalties beyond regular income tax . Specifically , as a spouse you can typically either take a lump-sum distribution from the 401 ( k ) and pay income tax on it ( but not the 10 % penalty ) , or you may usually roll it over into an IRA which further delays the income tax ( but then would have a penalty if you withdrew from it after that ) . See <URL> for example , or <URL> : There are certain exceptions to this additional 10 % tax . The following six exceptions apply to distributions from any qualified retirement plan : Distributions made to your beneficiary or estate on or after your death . IRAs also have this exception , as is covered in <URL> and <URL> . In particular , for spouses : Treat it as your own IRA by designating yourself as the account owner . Treat it as your own by rolling it over into your IRA , or to the extent it is taxable , into a : Qualified employer plan , Qualified employee annuity plan ( section 403 ( a ) plan ) , Tax-sheltered annuity plan ( section 403 ( b ) plan ) , Deferred compensation plan of a state or local government ( section 457 plan ) , or Treat yourself as the beneficiary rather than treating the IRA as your own . Roth IRAs function similarly , though some of the exact mechanics may differ . The only comment other than noting the RMD rules in chapter 2 is : If the sole beneficiary is the spouse , he or she can either delay distributions until the decedent would have reached age 70 1/2 or treat the Roth IRA as his or her own . If you designate your spouse as the beneficiary of your HSA , then it becomes her/his HSA and no tax consequence exists . If not , then it becomes her/his and is taxed . See <URL> for more detail .
In addition to the normal limits , A Solo 401 ( k ) allows you to contribute up to 20 % of net profits ( sole proprietor ) or 50 % of salary ( if a corporation ) , up to $ 49,000 . Note that the fees for 401 ( k ) accounts are higher than with the IRA . See <URL> .
Extended for five years . I wrote an article <URL> , in which I highlight the 2013 changes agreed to in Washington New Years evening . It remains at $ 1000 per child , but same as in prior years , phases out based on income . The details of <URL> , runs a full 157 pages . As a PDF , it 's friendly to searching on specific words to find what you seek .
If you participate in an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401 ( k ) your right to deduct an IRA contribution is phased out once your income reaches a certain level . This is from the IRS website for 2010 : " If either you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan , you may be entitled to only a partial ( reduced ) deduction or no deduction at all , depending on your income and your filing status . Your deduction begins to decrease ( phase out ) when your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount . These amounts vary depending on your filing status . " Here is the link : <URL>
When you fill out your FASFA section 3 You will be asked some or all of these questions : Were you born before January 1 , 1989 ? As of today , are you married ? At the beginning of the 2012-2013 school year , will you be working on a master 's or doctorate program ( such as an MA , MBA , MD , JD , PhD , EdD , or graduate certificate , etc. ) ? Do you have children who will receive more than half of their support from you between July 1 , 2012 and June 30 , 2013 ? Do you have dependents ( other than your children or spouse ) who live with you and who receive more than half of their support from you , now and through June 30 , 2013 ? Are you currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training ? Are you a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces ? At any time since you turned age 13 , were both your parents deceased , were you in foster care or were you a dependent or ward of the court ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you an emancipated minor ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you in legal guardianship ? On or after July 1 , 2011 , were you homeless or were you at risk of being homeless ? If you are unable to answer yes to at least one of these questions you will need a special circumstance to get a waiver . However , Federal law allows for some exceptions , if you have a special circumstance . The following are examples of some special circumstances where you may submit your FAFSA without providing parental information : Your parents are incarcerated ; or You have left home due to an abusive family environment ; or You do not know where your parents are and are unable to contact them ( and you have not been adopted ) . But not all situations are considered a special circumstance . The following are situations that would not be considered a special circumstance : Your parents do not want to provide their information on your FAFSA ; or Your parents refuse to contribute to your college expenses ; or Your parents do not claim you as a dependent on their income taxes ; or You do not live with your parents . <URL> Your school will have to approve the special circumstance if you apply for one . If you are not eligible for a special circumstance and can not provide parental income information then you will only be eligible for Unsubsidized loans . <URL>
When they made a counter offer they essentially rejected your offer , and you are no obligation to accept theirs . Nor are you obligated to your original offer . That is the risk a person takes when they make a counter offer . Their agent/representative should have advised them of this risk . Because time is of the essence in most of these transactions their delay with the extra round also made your original offer void . You were right to keep other properties in play .
" As-is " means that no matter what the inspector finds the seller will not delay closing , repair , or provide money/discount to repair . If you want to go this route then yes you need a complete inspection by a trained and certified home inspector . No matter what they find , big or small , you will then have the opportunity to walk away . If they find small things , then it is up to you . If they find any big things or open ended things then you will likely walk away . Do n't let the seller , their agent , or your agent try and talk you out of the inspection . Despite the claim as " as-is " many jurisdiction also require the seller to disclose all known material defect as a part of the listing and other related documents . So if they spent $ 5,000 covering up the evidence of the leak that will cost $ 20,000 they have to tell you . If it is discovered soon after you move in , you still may be able to take them to court . But you will need that inspection report to show that you tried to find all the defects . Why does the seller go the " as-is " route ? Some have something to hide . Others just want to speed the transaction along . If the defects are small , and you are able to handle the repairs yourself , then settlement can proceeded quickly . But if you insist on a new roof , then they have to schedule it and it can delay thing for weeks . Many times the seller is offering the house at a discount already and does n't want to reduce the money even further .
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
You can use 1040EZ . If there were any difference between the purchase price and the fair market value ( which there was n't in your case ) , it would have been listed as income on your W-2 , and you would report it as wages on your tax return , which can be done on 1040 or 1040A or 1040EZ . You have not sold anything , so there would not be " investment income " to report anyway .
Unfortunately you have to take the deduction in the proper tax year . Your 2015 contribution , even if made in 2016 impacts the taxes you file in April 2016 . The logic allows taxpayers to decide how much to contribute into a IRA or Roth IRA after all the other calculations have been done . Some people are near the cutoffs and ca n't know what makes sense or what is allowed until all the numbers are in . This following suggestion may seem counter-intuitive ; but if you are in a very low tax bracket this year , and expect to be in a very high bracket next year you might consider a Roth IRA for your 2015 contribution . For the low level of taxes you will pay on that $ 5500 now , you can pull all the gains out tax free when you retire , which may be decades from now .
Charitable deductions ( and all Schedule A deductions ) are applied to your marginal tax calculation . They reduce the taxable income on the line 43 of your tax return ( form 1040 ) . When you calculate your tax on the <URL> , you start with that number . You then deduct all the capital gains from it and calculate the ordinary tax on line 24 of the worksheet .
It appears that this is the case . From IRS <URL> , Health Savings Accounts and Other Tax-Favored Health Plans Qualified medical expenses are those incurred by the following persons . You and your spouse . All dependents you claim on your tax return . Any person you could have claimed as a dependent on your return except that : The person filed a joint return , The person had gross income of $ 3,700 or more , or You , or your spouse if filing jointly , could be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's 2011 return .
It will impact your credit score , but typically very minor - paying one bill late is much worse . It reduces your average credit card age , which is a minor contributor to credit score . The disadvantages are : you are giving them your address and name , and implicit permission to spam you with mail , email , etc. for the next years ; you can only do it once ( it 's typically in the fine print - new customers only ) it 's a lot of form filling and hassle Yes , you make 50 $ , and it 's not a bad hourly rate . But except if you really need that money , it 's not worth the effort .
end question
start question
Will I owe any taxes if I can write off every cent ?
In the US tax system , you can not " write-off " capital assets . You have to depreciate them , with very specific exceptions . So while you may be purchasing $ 4500 of equipment , your deduction may be significantly less . For example , computers are depreciated over the period of 5 years , so if you bought a $ 1000 computer - you write off $ 200/year until it is completely depreciated , not $ 1000 at once . There are exceptions however , for example - <URL> is one of them . But you should talk to a tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) about whether it is applicable to the specific expense you want to " write off " and to what extent . Also , keep in mind that State laws may not conform to the Federal IRC . While you may be able to use Sec . 179 or other exceptions and deduct your expenses on your Federal return , you may end up with a whole different set of deductions on your State return . And last but not least : equipment that you depreciated or otherwise " wrote off " that is later sold - is income to you , since depreciation/deduction reduces basis . Ah , and keep in mind - the IRS frowns upon Schedule C business that consistently show losses . If you have losses for more than 3 in the last 5 years - your business may be classified as " hobby " , and deductions may be disallowed . But the bottom line is that yes , it is possible to end up with 0 tax liability with business income offset by business deductions . However , not for prolonged periods of time ( not for years consistently , but first year may fly ) . Again - you should talk to a licensed tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) . It is well worth the money . Do not rely on answers on free Internet forums as a tax advice - it is not .
IRS Publication 17 Your Income Tax says on page 203 ( in regard to what you can deduct on Schedule A as an itemized deduction ) You can deduct safe deposit box rent if you use the box to store taxable income-producing stocks , bonds , or investment-related papers and documents . You can not deduct the rent if you use the box only for jewelry , other personal items , or tax-exempt securities . If you are taking the standard deduction , you get no additional tax advantage from your rental fee even if it is used solely for storage of investment property and documents . The tax advantage is incorporated into the standard deduction .
Yes , you are . When someone is bankrupt their assets are being sold to satisfy the creditors . Your note is an asset , and will be sold . You 'll be making payments to the entity that buys it .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone 's behalf , that someone has to submit <URL> . Note that since you 're not a professional , this form must be paper-filed ( CRTP , EA , CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line ) . Once the form is accepted by the FTB , you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend . Pay attention : you 're going to represent the partnership , not the individual .
The short answer is no you can only deduct actual expenses . The long answer is that it would be impossible for the IRS to determine the value of your time and it would open the tax system to an enormous amount of fraud ( think of being able to make up time spent or writing off time spent volunteering at a soup kitchen or any other charity ) . Now you can write off expenses you have involved in doing the work , equipment and supplies used to do the work along with any wages you paid an employee or contractor to do said work .
In the US tax system , you can not " write-off " capital assets . You have to depreciate them , with very specific exceptions . So while you may be purchasing $ 4500 of equipment , your deduction may be significantly less . For example , computers are depreciated over the period of 5 years , so if you bought a $ 1000 computer - you write off $ 200/year until it is completely depreciated , not $ 1000 at once . There are exceptions however , for example - <URL> is one of them . But you should talk to a tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) about whether it is applicable to the specific expense you want to " write off " and to what extent . Also , keep in mind that State laws may not conform to the Federal IRC . While you may be able to use Sec . 179 or other exceptions and deduct your expenses on your Federal return , you may end up with a whole different set of deductions on your State return . And last but not least : equipment that you depreciated or otherwise " wrote off " that is later sold - is income to you , since depreciation/deduction reduces basis . Ah , and keep in mind - the IRS frowns upon Schedule C business that consistently show losses . If you have losses for more than 3 in the last 5 years - your business may be classified as " hobby " , and deductions may be disallowed . But the bottom line is that yes , it is possible to end up with 0 tax liability with business income offset by business deductions . However , not for prolonged periods of time ( not for years consistently , but first year may fly ) . Again - you should talk to a licensed tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) . It is well worth the money . Do not rely on answers on free Internet forums as a tax advice - it is not .
You wo n't be taxed for putting it in a savings account ( except on any interest that is subsequently paid ) . If the money is from a taxable source , then you 're liable to pay tax on its receipt whether you then put it in a savings account , stuff it under your mattress or burn it . If you 're planning on the basis that you might ( by not putting it in a bank ) be able conceal its existence from the tax authorities so that you do n't have to pay the tax that 's due then you 're asking for advice on breaking the law , which is out of scope for this forum .
You are not allowed to take a routine 401 ( k ) withdrawal each year . There are specific reasons that you might be allowed to take a withdrawal and what you 're proposing does n't fit into those categories .
A mutual fund itself generally is n't taxed on its income or gains . To avoid taxes , each year a mutual fund has to pay out and pass through to its shareholders most of its net interest , dividends , and capital gains . You as the shareholder are taxed on your share of these items . If you review the annual reports for your funds , you will see that part of each years distribution is net investment income , primarily interest and dividends it receives , and the remainder is net realized gain . Here is an example : <URL> In the example linked , for the year ended 12/31/2014 , your fund distributed $ 3.49 per share of which $ 3.15 was net realized gain .
No , you ca n't . The limits are contribution limits , not limits on the value of the investment . If you contributed $ 5,500 for 2015 , you are done contributing for that tax year . You are free to contribute another $ 5,500 for 2016 .
If you 're not a US tax resident ( and on F-1 , you 're probably not ) then the ACA tax provision does n't apply to you . You need to have the health insurance that is required by the visa conditions .
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
Among possible sources of error : What is the nominal interest rate and compounding period ? What is the effective interest rate per payment period ? Does the lender take into account the different number of days in the months , in amortizing a monthly payment mortgage ? Has the lender added any fees or costs to the principal amount ? Some lenders insist on paying property taxes ( since the city gets first crack at the property ahead of any lender ) , or fire insurance premiums ( since it 's their collateral that could burn down )
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
Yes you will get back the extra money at tax time . You are not able to adjust the withholding . Each employer will pay their share , and not get a refund , but at tax time , you 'll get back any excess as if you worked one job . On the tax forms the data from each W2 is loaded , including the Social Security ( FICA ) withheld . There are a number of circumstances that can result in the worker portion being too much , say 6 months at one job , 6 months at another , but the total for the year is well above the max withhholding level . Or the OPs situation with multiple concurrent jobs . If you fill the forms manually , I ca n't tell you the form the triggers the refund ( yet ) but the reporting of the excess payments will result in a refund via the same Federal tax payment / refund method . To be clear , your federal refund will be higher , or required payment lower due the the Social Security issue .
Your corporation would file a corporate income tax return on an annual basis . One single month of no revenue does n't mean much in that annual scheme of things . Total annual revenue and total annual expenses are what impact the results . In other words , yes , your corporation can book revenues in ( say ) 11 of 12 months of the year but still incur expenses in all months . Many seasonal businesses operate this way and it is perfectly normal . You could even just have , say , one super-awesome month and spend money the rest of the year . Heck , you could even have zero revenue but still incur expenses -- startups often work like that at first . ( You 'd need investment funding , personal credit , a loan , or retained earnings from earlier profitable periods to do that , of course . ) As long as your corporation has a reasonable expectation of a profit and the expenses your corporation incurs are valid business expenses , then yes , you ought to be able to deduct those expenses from your revenue when figuring taxes owed , regardless of whether the expenses were incurred at the same approximate time as revenue was booked -- as long as the expense was n't the acquisition of a depreciable asset . Some things your company would buy -- such as the computer in your example -- would not be fully deductible in the year the expense is incurred . <URL> expenses are deducted over time according to a schedule for the kind of property . The amount of depreciation expense you can claim for such property each year is known as <URL> . A qualified professional accountant can help you understand this . One last thing : You wrote " write off " . That is not the same as " deduct " . However , you are forgiven , because many people say " write off " when they actually mean " deduct " ( for tax purposes ) . " Write off " , rather , is a different accounting term , meaning where you mark down the value of an asset ( e.g. a bad loan that will never be repaid ) to zero ; in effect , you are recognizing it is now a worthless asset . There can be a tax benefit to a write-off , but what you are asking about are clearly expense deductions and not write-offs . They are not the same thing , and the next time you hear somebody using " write off " when they mean " deduction " , please correct them .
You will need to file your tax return ( form 1040 ) with the form 2555/2555-EZ attached to it . Usually , retail tax preparation services , especially on-line websites , are not tailored for such a unique need and people working there are likely not train to understand what it is that you 're talking about . If you 're up to doing the research yourself you can use the IRS free fillable forms or just mail in paper return which you can fill manually . Otherwise , check with a local US-licensed tax prepare or find a US-based tax prepare working with expats . @Eric raises a good point - this is a good time to remind you that you also need to file <URL> ( separately of the tax return ) and maybe other reports .
If you simply want to preserve the value of your capital , take a look at buying <URL> from the US Treasury : When a TIPS matures , the investor is paid the inflation-adjusted principal or original principal , whichever is greater . Since a TIPS investor wo n't receive less than the original principal , the investor 's original principal amount is protected against deflation as well . TIPS pay interest semiannually at a fixed rate . The rate is applied to the adjusted principal ; so , like the principal , interest payments rise with inflation and fall with deflation . So you 'll earn ( a small amount of ) interest , and the principal will be adjusted for inflation . Edit : As Michael Pryor points out in a comment below , there is liquidity risk -- if you need the money before the bond matures , you could lose principal . In my answer above I 'm assuming you want to " lock up " the money for a period of time . If you 're anticipating needing cash from the principal , you could set up a <URL> to provide you with some extra liquidity .
You got it right . It is in part III of the form ( form 8829 , that is , in its current form ) . You pay 25 % tax on the amounts deducted as depreciation . That is if you sell at more that your current ( = post depreciation ) basis . Talk to your tax adviser about the details . He may be able to help you getting the old forms if you did n't keep the copies , you 'll definitely need them . You 'll have to request the copies from the IRS .
end question
start question
Can I still deduct contributions to my Traditional IRA ?
It depends . For 2012 the phaseout range for deducting an IRA contribution when you are covered by a retirement plan at work are as follows : For single filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For head of household filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For married couples filing jointly : $ 92,000 to $ 112,000 For married couples filing separately : $ 0 to $ 10,000 Unfortunately , ' covered ' is n't qualified by any minimum time .
Contributions to a traditional IRA are treated as ordinary income when they 're withdrawn , as well as the earnings .
If your employer matches a percentage of your contributions , then you should try to max out your plan . Once you have completed maxing out your 401k , you may want to open up an IRA for several reasons : will your 401k be enough to sustain your lifestyle in retirement ? Your IRA allows you to save even more for retirement . you can invest in all sorts of stuff through your IRA that might not be available in your plan . you can withdraw the principal from your IRA , usually after five years . This serves as another form of savings . IRAs have some asset protection in the event of bankruptcy . A normal savings or investment account usually does not offer such protection .
You can claim a deduction only if all of your business is conducted from the home , i.e. your home is your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The <URL> ( Canada Revenue Agency ) has pretty strict guidelines listed <URL> , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualifies . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other related &amp; allowable home expense deductions has to be pro-rated to be equal to or less than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business is operated out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage is 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expenses ( 120/2 ,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this helps !
If you participate in an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401 ( k ) your right to deduct an IRA contribution is phased out once your income reaches a certain level . This is from the IRS website for 2010 : " If either you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan , you may be entitled to only a partial ( reduced ) deduction or no deduction at all , depending on your income and your filing status . Your deduction begins to decrease ( phase out ) when your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount . These amounts vary depending on your filing status . " Here is the link : <URL>
Your $ 400/month contributions are still tax deductible in the current tax year . However , each subsequent tax year , you will be required to repay at least 1/15 of the total amount you withdrew . In your example , let 's say you used $ 25,000 for the home buyer 's plan in the 2015 tax year . Throughout 2015 , you contribute $ 400/month toward your RRSP . For the 2015 tax year , you are able to claim $ 4800 in RRSP contributions . For the 2016 tax year , you continue to contribute $ 400/month toward your RRSP . However , you are only able to claim $ 3133.33 in RRSP contributions , and must put at least $ 1666.67 toward repayment of your HBP . This will continue until you have entirely repaid the HBP . You are free to repay it early . <URL> has the details .
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
I wrote a brilliant guest post at Do n't Mess With Taxes , titled <URL> . ( Note - this article now reflects 2012 rates . Just updated ) Simply put , it 's an ongoing question of whether your taxes will be higher now than at any point in the future . If you are in the 25 % bracket now , it would take quite of bit of money for your withdrawals to put you in that bracket at retirement . In the case of the IRA , you have the opportunity to convert in any year between now and retirement if your rate that year drops for whatever reason . The simplest case is if you are now in the 25 % bracket . I say go pre-tax , and track , year by year what your withdrawal would be if you retired today . At 15 % , but with a good chance for promotion to the 25 % bracket , start with Roth flavor and then as you hit 25 % , use a combination . This approach would smooth your marginal rate to stay at 15 % . To give you a start to this puzzle , in 2012 , a couple has a $ 11,900 standard deduction along with 2 exemptions of $ 3800 each . This means the first $ 19,500 in an IRA comes out tax free at retirement . If you believe in a 4 % withdrawal rate , you need a retirement account containing $ 500K pretax to generate this much money . This tick up with inflation , 2 years ago , it was $ 18,700 and $ 467K respectively . This is why those who scream " taxes will go up " may be correct , but do you really believe the standard deduction and exemptions will go away ? Edit - and as time passes , and I learn more , new info comes to my attention . The above thoughts not withstanding , there 's an issue of taxation of Social Security benefits . This creates a <URL> which I recently wrote about . A single person with not really too high an income gets thrust into the 46 % bracket . Not a typo , 46.25 % to be exact .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
Both types of plans offer a tax benefit . A traditional IRA allows you to invest pre-tax money into the account and it grows tax free . Once you withdraw the money it then gets taxed as though it were income based on the amount you withdraw for that calendar year . A Roth IRA has you invest post-tax money and also grows tax free . However , when you make withdraws in retirement that money is then tax free . Neither plan is right for everybody . If you have a very high income now and plan on being in a smaller tax bracket later when you 'll be making withdraws then the traditional IRA is better . If you will be in a higher bracket later , then the Roth IRA will serve you more . Depending on the way you manage your retirement investing you can likely invest in both if you are unsure as to which would be better . The same type of investments should be able to be nested within each type .
The Roth-IRA or for that matter a regular IRA is generally not connected to your place of employment . Now a 401 ( k ) is linked to your place of employment . If the business no longer exists , they should have turned over the 401K . The US department of Labor has information regarding <URL> . I suspect my plan is abandoned , but I have never received a notice of plan termination . How could I find out if a QTA has elected to terminate and wind up my 401 ( k ) pension plan ? EBSA has developed an Abandoned Plan searchable database to help participants and beneficiaries find out if a particular plan is in the process of being , or has been , terminated . The site is searchable by plan name or employer name and will provide the name and contact information for the QTA , if one exists . If you do not have access to a computer to conduct the search , you may contact one of EBSA 's Benefits Advisors to assist you by calling toll-free , 1.866.444 . EBSA ( 3272 ) .
The IRA contribution for the year are allowed until the tax day of that year . I.e. : you can contribute for 2015 until April 15th , 2016 ( or whatever the first business day is after that , if the 15th is a holiday ) . You 'll have to explicitly designate your contribution for 2015 , since some of the IRA providers may automatically designate the current year unless you explicitly say otherwise . If that happens - it will be very hard to fix later , so pay attention when you 're making the contribution . You get a couple of things from your IRA provider : <URL> - details your contributions for the year , account FMV , and RMD details . You can see the actual form <URL> . You do n't always get this form , if you did n't contribute anything and no RMD is required for you . Since the last day to contribute is April 15th , these forms are usually being sent out around mid-May . But you should know how much you 've contributed by the tax day without it , obviously , so this is only for the IRS matching and your record-tracking . <URL> includes information about distributions ( including withdrawals and roll-overs ) . You may not get this form if you did n't take any money out of your IRA . These come out around end of January .
No , your 401 ( a ) contributions will not count against your Roth IRA limit . Contributing to other IRA accounts can reduce how much you can contribute to a Roth account , but 401 ( a ) / 401 ( k ) and other employer sponsored plans do not count against the Roth IRA limit . The IRS publishes a lot of really good information on this topic , which you can find <URL> . It 's pretty long though , so it 's best used as a reference .
Yes , you can recharacterize your new Roth IRA ( started in 2014 ) as a Traditional IRA by April 15 , 2015 . With recharacterization , the earnings within the Roth IRA get transferred over to the Traditional IRA . It is as if you started a Traditional IRA on the day that you made the first Roth IRA contribution i 2014 . If you have already filed your 2014 tax return ( and thus paid income tax on the money sent to the Roth IRA ) , you can file an amended return to claim whatever deduction you are entitled to on the Traditional IRA contribution . ( High earners are not entitled to make deductible contributions to Traditional IRAs but can make nondeductible contributions . Be sure to file Form 8606 to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution . Absent this , that money will be taxed again when it is taken out ) Do not " CANCEL " your Roth IRA , whatever that means . Re-characterize it , and soon , especially if your income is high enough that you are not entitled to contribute to a Roth IRA for 2014 .
Under " Pension contributions deducted from your pay " you need to put in the # amount of the 5 % that you pay from your salary . If your gross salary is # 50k then you would put # 2500 in that field . Under " Pension contributions not paid from your salary " you need to put in any additional amounts that you have paid into any pensions , eg by sending in a cheque or making a Direct Debit or Standing Order . This may well be # 0 in your specific case . You do not need to enter the 10 % employer contribution anywhere .
<URL> covers Moving Expenses . According to Pub 521 , in order to deduct moving expenses , there are <URL> , one of which is called the <URL> : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Yes , the 39-week employment period is a requirement . However , the 39 weeks do not have to be consecutive nor with the same employer . Also , the 39 weeks do not have to be complete before taking the deduction . Pub 521 goes on further to explain this in the section <URL> . Essentially , you can deduct your moving expenses if you think that you will meet this 39-week requirement over the 12 months following your move . If you decide to take the deduction and then it turns out that you did not meet the 39-week test , you must fix it by either amending your tax return or adding the deduction back in as " extra income " on the next year 's return . Pub 521 also lists <URL> which will get you out of the time test , ( including getting laid off ) , but quitting is not one of them . Since you have already left the area , you will not meet this 39-week test and should not deduct the expenses for that move . However , in moving back to your home state , you have made a new move that might be eligible for deduction , depending on your job situation .
It 's not compound interest . It is internal rate of return . If you have access to Excel look up the XIRR built-in function .
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
The I in IRA stands for Individual . You can do a backdoor conversion of all or part of your Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA all by yourself regardless of whether your spouse converts her IRA or not , and the taxable part of the rollover is determined by what your Form 8606 says , not what is on her Form 8606 . But since you file a joint return with your spouse , she will have the ineffable joy of being as liable as you for the income tax that is due on the conversion : on a joint tax return , both spouses are jointly and severally liable for the tax due ( no halfsies ) . If one person does not pay , the other is liable for the entire amount .
end question
start question
Do I have to repay the First-Time Homebuyers tax credit if I refinance ?
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
When evaluating a refinance , you need to figure out the payback time . Refinancing costs money in closing costs . The payback time is the time it takes to recover the closing costs with the amount of money you are saving in interest . For example , if the closing costs are $ 2,000 , your payback time is 2 years if it takes 2 years to save that amount in interest with the new interest rate vs. the old one . To estimate this , look at the difference in interest rate between your mortgage and the new one , and your mortgage balance . For example , let 's say that you have $ 100,000 left on your mortgage , and the new rate is 1 % lower than your current rate . In one year , you will save roughly $ 1,000 in interest . If your closing costs are $ 2,000 , then your payback time is somewhere around 2 years . If you plan on staying in this house longer than the payback time , then it is beneficial to refinance . There are mortgage refinance calculators online that will calculate payback time more precisely . One thing to watch out for : when you refinance , if you expand the term of your mortgage , you might end up paying more interest over the long term , even though your rate is less and your monthly payment is less . For example , let 's say you currently have 8 years left on a 15-year mortgage . If you refinance to a new 15-year mortgage , your monthly payment will go down , but if you only pay the new minimum payment for the next 15 years , you could end up paying more in interest than if you had just continued with your old mortgage for the next 8 years . To avoid this , refinance to a new mortgage with a term close to what you have left on your current mortgage . If you ca n't do that , continue paying whatever your current monthly payment is after you refinance , and you 'll pay your new mortgage early and save on interest .
I was in a similar situation for 2014 - > 2015 . In 2014 we owed a lot of money due to some bad math by myself , and a lot of extra income . The accountant ( now fired ) gave me quarterly tax chits that were based upon my 2014 income with no regard to the makeup of my 2015 income . We did not use any of those chits . At the end of 2015 we were due a small refund . There was no penalty and I believe there would not have been unless I owed more than $ 1000 . From the <URL> Underpayment of Estimated Tax If you did not pay enough tax throughout the year , either through withholding or by making estimated tax payments , you may have to pay a penalty for underpayment of estimated tax . Generally , most taxpayers will avoid this penalty if they owe less than $ 1,000 in tax after subtracting their withholdings and credits , or if they paid at least 90 % of the tax for the current year , or 100 % of the tax shown on the return for the prior year , whichever is smaller . There are special rules for farmers and fishermen . Please refer to Publication 505 , Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax , for additional information .
It may be reported to the Treasury ( <URL> ) . Any cash transaction of over $ 10K is . In addition to the strict reporting requirements that the FinCen imposes , banks can report whatever they feel like if they think its suspicious . Another thing to keep in mind is that the IRS might ask for a gift tax return from the payer , or a foreign gift report from you . While you claim this is a loan , it may not necessarily be seen as such by the IRS . You need to have proper paperwork ready to show the source of the money if asked , and show that it is a bona fide loan , and that 's it . Also , how would I report capital gains on trades that I have made . Do I actually have to send every single trade I make to the government and show profits and losses on each trade ? Yes . That would be part of your schedule D or E on your yearly tax return .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
AFAIK , you ca n't get the lock until you submit the application .
<URL> covers Moving Expenses . According to Pub 521 , in order to deduct moving expenses , there are <URL> , one of which is called the <URL> : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Yes , the 39-week employment period is a requirement . However , the 39 weeks do not have to be consecutive nor with the same employer . Also , the 39 weeks do not have to be complete before taking the deduction . Pub 521 goes on further to explain this in the section <URL> . Essentially , you can deduct your moving expenses if you think that you will meet this 39-week requirement over the 12 months following your move . If you decide to take the deduction and then it turns out that you did not meet the 39-week test , you must fix it by either amending your tax return or adding the deduction back in as " extra income " on the next year 's return . Pub 521 also lists <URL> which will get you out of the time test , ( including getting laid off ) , but quitting is not one of them . Since you have already left the area , you will not meet this 39-week test and should not deduct the expenses for that move . However , in moving back to your home state , you have made a new move that might be eligible for deduction , depending on your job situation .
Is there an option to dispute this record online since I have never lived in Ohio state ? Start with getting a US-licensed CPA/EA in India , or a CPA/EA working in Ohio , contacting them on your behalf and getting more details . Why did they put the lien ? They probably think you earned money in the State/while resident of the State , and did n't pay taxes . Why would they think that ? Could there be any chance that this was put by mistake ? I still find it hard to believe that the state authorities took my credit card address as a proof of residence . Obviously , unless you did n't tell us something in your question , this is some kind of mistake . But mistake can be not theirs - someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to steal your identity . Someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to file a fraudulent tax return and got refunds they were not supposed to get If there is no option to dispute , what is the worst that can happen if I do n't pay it and enter the US in 2020 ? If you do n't do anything , someone else 's mistake will become your mistake . Your credit will be ruined , the statute of limitations to dispute the assessment will have passed and the State will attempt to collect on you . The statute of limitations on collections depends on the State laws , but it is much longer than the statute of limitations on assessments , so while you may not be able to argue you do n't owe the dept by 2020 - the State will probably be able to garnish your wages and freeze your bank accounts . Deal with this , ASAP .
When shopping for a mortgage , you get a grace period where all credit pulls related to mortgage shopping in 14 days only count as one credit pull . Having other banks pull your credit to get a quote should not additionally affect your credit because you just had a bank pull your credit for the first quote .
Whether your financial status is considered " OK " depends on your aspirations . You are n't spending more than you earn and have no debt . That puts you in the category of OK in my book , but the information in your post indicates that you would benefit from some financial advice -- 100 grand sounds like a lot of money to have in a bank unless you are on the verge of spending it . Financial advisors come in various shapes and sizes . Many will charge you a lot for what turns out to be helpful advice in the first meeting , but very little value-added thereafter . Some do n't have the best incentives ( they may be incentivized to encourage you to put your money into certain funds , for example ) . There are many financial advisors ( of sorts ) that you have access to that wo n't cost you anything . For example , if you have a 401 ( k ) at work , I bet there is a representative from the plan administrator that will meet with you for free . If you open a brokerage account or IRA at any place ( Fidelity , Vanguard , etc. ) you can easily talk with one of their reps and get all sorts of advice . My personal take is to meet with anyone who will meet with me for free , but not to pay anyone for this service . It 's too easy to get good advice and paying for it does n't guarantee that you get better advice . Your financial situation will depend primarily on a few things you have not mentioned here . For example , How much are you setting aside for retirement and what are your retirement goals ? This is something lots of people can give you advice on , but we do n't know what market returns will be going forward so we do n't really know . One bit of advice that may benefit you is how to set aside money for retirement in the most tax advantaged way . How much do you feel that you need saved up for large expenses ? Thinking of starting a family ? How many months worth of income are you comfortable having set aside ? What is your tolerance of risk ? If you put your money in risky assets , you may make more , but you may also actually lose money . Those are the questions a financial advisor will ask about . Once you have his/her advice -- and preferrably after talking to a few advisors -- you can make your own decision . Basically , your options are : Keep saving in banks or other safe assets ( make sure you are using the highest interest-rate paying bank you can find ) Put additional money into an IRA or other retirement vehicle in order to save on taxes Open a ( normal , taxable ) brokerage account and start buying financial assets . Buy real assets , like real estate , gold1 , collectibles , guns1 , etc. . Rules of thumb : Save only what makes sense to save in banks given your expected needs for cash . Put a lot in tax advantaged accounts ( do n't give Uncle Sam any gifts ) . Then look at financial and real investments . There are a number of free resources on the internet . For example <URL> . Or you can hit up the forums at <URL> . Those guys give and receive financial advice as a hobby . They are n't professionals , but you can get a lot of varying ideas and make up your own mind , which to me is better than ( just ) asking a professional . BTW , regarding the ESPP : these plans often give you a discount on stock and can therefore be a good idea . Just be sure you do n't hold the stock longer than you need to . It 's generally a bad idea to concentrate your wealth in any single investment , especially one highly correlated with your background risk ( i.e. , if the company does poorly you will already be worse off because you may lose your job or see fewer advancement opportunities . No need to add losses in your savings to that ) . 1 Please note : I am neither advocating nor discouraging buying guns , gold , or other controversial real assets . I 'm just giving examples of items some people buy as part of their wealth-preservation strategy .
No . The volunteering part of that question is really the answer , you are looking for nothing in return ; other than a feeling of having " given back " . This would also somewhat blur the line between the employees of the charity , and their volunteers in a way that I suspect could cause some friction , for example : if you were receipted for more than they made .
I believe you can , under professional fees . To be sure , you should ask a professional tax preparer or tax adviser ( CPA/EA ) .
The back pay will explain the high rate . You are being taxed on a month one basis . <URL> says W1 ( week 1 ) and M1 ( month 1 ) are emergency tax codes . This means your tax is based only on what you are paid in the current pay period , not the whole year . These codes are sometimes known as ' non-cumulative ' . Thus the tax is calculated as if you were getting the amount you got this month for every month in the year . So compare 12 times the amount with the tax allowances to see where you get taxed at the higher rate . ( or divide the allowances by 12 ) When your records have been consolidated the emergency code is removed and the amount you pay will be adjusted to the correct level and this will include a refund if necessary Doing a calculation at annual rates Gross salary of # 68,500 first # 11,000 at 0 next # 32,000 at 20 % = # 6,400 next # 25,500 at 40 % = # 10,200 So net tax of # 16,600 a rate of 24.23 % So you received about # 5,708 in one month
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
According to <URL> : A first-time buyer is someone who does not and has never owned an interest in a residential property , either inside or outside the UK . So you do n't count . I have n't been able to any government document confirming this though . <URL> does say ( section 3.11 ) that : the government bonus can only be put towards a first home located in the UK with a purchase value of # 450,000 or less in London and # 250,000 or less in all other parts of the UK the government bonus can only be used towards a property that is being used for the first time buyer to live in as their only residence and not buy-to-let . This will be enforced by the scheme administrator ... accounts are limited to one per person rather than one per home so those buying together can both receive a bonus Taken together I think that means that your girlfriend can get one of these ISAs and use it towards a jointly-purchased house . But you 'd be wise to check that with the ISA provider .
I believe it 's just to limit the less well-off from acquiring one . If your credit history and income do not support a $ 15,000 credit limit , then do n't even think about applying for an Altitude Black card . If they do , then do n't bother with a student card . It 's primarily about market segmentation by wealth or income .
mbhunter , Here 's the portal for US Dept of Labor child employment laws : <URL> Note the first two paras : " The Fair Labor Standards Act 's ( FLSA ) minimum age requirements do not apply to minors employed by their parents , or by a person acting as their guardian . An exception to this occurs in mining , manufacturing and occupations where the minimum age requirement of 18 years old applies . State laws often follow the same pattern as the Fair Labor Standards Act with regard to minors working for their parents . Consult your state department of labor for specific guidance . " So it looks like there is no legal compulsion ; unless you are having your daughter bore engine cylinders or set explosives at the backyard silver mine .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
Your taxes are only slightly more complex than previous years . Therefore if you were comfortable doing your taxes using software last year , you should n't have any problems doing them this year . Both the software and professional should use how you answer a few basic questions , and the information on your paperwork , to guide you though your options . They will calculate the different approaches and present you with the options . One thing that you will need is a social security number for the child in order to claim them as a dependent . So If you have n't started the <URL> you should do so now .
end question
start question
I would not like to rush to file taxes at the last moment . Does it make sense to file Form 4868 ?
An extension is an extension to file , not to pay . If you expect to pay , you 'll owe penalties/interest for paying late . However , an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay . That means , if you owe , you should pay the IRS by the April 18th deadline to avoid penalties and interest . <URL> FYI you have until April 18th in 2011 because April 15th is a holiday which gives you an extra weekend to work on tax investigation .
Canada and the United States have a tax treaty , meaning that if you are resident in only one country , under most circumstances you would declare income only in the country of residence . The raw information can be found here on the Canadian Department of Finance Web Site : <URL> . The IRS info is here : <URL> The information is very technical . I would recommend that you speak with an accountant , particularly if you 're talking large sums of money . A less technical summary from the US Treasury : <URL>
From Equifax FAQ : <URL> ? - " Good information , like your on-time payment of credit card bills or your mortgage , can stay on your credit history forever . Having more good information helps strengthen your credit history and increase your credit score . " Removing old items for the sake of ' cleaning up ' your report may not be possible , and is probably unnecessary . ' Old ' items , closed accounts that were paid off , are not a negative , although I understand the desire to see them fall off .
What you 're talking about is called " tax gain harvesting , " and it is considered good tax management . From The Oblivious Investor , <URL> . For an interesting take on <URL> , check out Go Curry Cracker . You can claim up to $ 70,000 or so in capital gains before paying any taxes if you are the 10 % or 15 % tax bracket .
The fact that you got your check does n't mean you 're not going to be audited . It just means that your return was properly filed and accepted . Audit notices usually start to appear at about half a year after returns are filed , and come as late as 3 years after . In fact , your tax return can be audited many years after you filed it , if the information on it affects a future year tax liability ( for example - depreciation deduction , passive activity , NOL , capital losses , foreign tax credits , and many other things that can stretch into the future ) .
In the U.S. , <URL> is known as the tax return . This is the form that is filed annually to calculate your tax due for the year , and you either claim a refund if you have overpaid your taxes or send in a payment if you have underpaid . The form is generally due on April 15 each year , but this year the due date is April 18 , 2016 . When it comes to filing your taxes , there are two questions you need to ask yourself : " Am I required to file ? " and " Should I file ? " Am I required to file ? The <URL> has a section called " Do I have to file ? " with several charts that determine if you are legally required to file . It depends on your status and your gross income . If you are single , under 65 , and not a dependent on someone else 's return , you are not required to file if your 2015 income was less than $ 10,300 . If you will be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's return , however , you must file if your earned income ( from work ) was over $ 6300 , or your unearned income ( from investments ) was over $ 1050 , or your gross ( total ) income was more than the larger of either $ 1050 or your earned income + $ 350 . See the instructions for more details . Should I file ? Even if you find that you are not required to file , it may be beneficial to you to file anyway . There are two main reasons you might do this : If you have had income where tax has been taken out , you may have overpaid the tax . Filing the tax return will allow you to get a refund of the amount that you overpaid . As a student , you may be eligible for student tax credits that can get you a refund even if you did not pay any tax during the year . How to file For low income tax payers , the IRS has a program called <URL> that provides free filing software options .
FICA No . FUTA Generally , FUTA is limited to a very low amount compared to the overall salary ( first $ 7K a year ) SDI Depends on the state law , generally is also limited to a certain maximum amount . SUI Same as SDI - depends on the state law . ETT If you 're referring to the California Employment Training tax - it is limited to the first $ 7K of the annual pay , same as FUTA . Non-taxable fringe benefits are not considered wages .
Full payment is always better than auto-loan if you are prudent with finances . I.E if you take a loan , you are factoring the EMI hence your savings will remain as is . However if you manage well , you can buy the car with cash and at the same time put aside the notional EMI as savings and investments . The other factor to consider is what return your cash is giving . If this more than auto-loan interest rate post taxes , you should opt for loan . For example if auto-loan is 10 % and you are getting a return of 15 % after taxes on investment then loan is better . Company Car lease depends on terms . More often you get break on taxes on the EMI component . But you have to buy at the end of lease period and re-register the car in your name , so there is additional cost . Some companies give lease at very favourable rates . Plus if you leave the job lease has to be broken and it becomes more expensive .
I think you can go with option 2 , but I 'm not sure TurboTax supports it . It will probably want to generate an amended form for you .
Did some research and it appears they can be mailed together . Here are the instructions for how the IRS processes when multiple forms are in the same envelope . Occasionally multiple forms 1040/A/EZ / X are attached . For example : Two or more returns from the same taxpayer are mailed in the same envelope Two or more family members ' returns are mailed by the tax preparer in the same envelope Two or more unrelated returns are mailed by the tax preparer in the same envelope Note : Detach the returns leaving an action trail on each document , then sort , work or route the returns as appropriate . <URL> However , the IRS is tracking an issue in their issue system about multiple filings in the same envelope and several getting marked as late . IMRS 10-0001371 -- Multiple Forms 7004 ( Request for Extension ) mailed in one envelope Issue : A tax professional mailed multiple Forms 7004 ( Request for Extension ) in one envelope to Ogden , postmarked 3/15/10 . Six of these were rejected , with the taxpayer receiving Form 6513 stating the extension was not approved because it was filed after the date the return was due . <URL> So because the IRS has had a recent problem with multiple filings in the same envelope , I would go ahead and use more than one envelope .
The biggest reason why one might want to leave 401k money invested in an ex-employer 's plan is that the plan offers some superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere , e.g. some mutual funds that are not open to individual investors such as S&amp;P index funds for institutional investors ( these have expense ratios even smaller than the already low expense ratios of good S&amp;P index funds ) or " hot " funds that are ( usually temporarily ) closed to new investors , etc. . The biggest reason to roll over 401k money from an ex-employer 's plan to the 401k plan of a new employer is essentially the same : the new employer 's plan offers superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere . Of course , the new employer 's 401k plan must accept such roll overs . I do not believe that it is a requirement that a 401k plan must accept rollovers , but rather an option that a plan can be set up to allow for or not . Another reason to roll over 401k money from one plan to another ( rather than into an IRA ) is to keep it safe from creditors . If you are sued and found liable for damages in a court proceeding , the plaintiff can come after IRA assets but not after 401k money . Also , you can take a loan from the 401k money ( subject to various rules about how much can be borrowed , payment requirements etc ) which you can not from an IRA . That being said , the benefits of keeping 401k money as 401k money must be weighed against the usually higher administrative costs and usually poorer and more limited choices of investment opportunities available in most 401k plans as Muro has said already .
TL ; DR : Decide based on whether your CURRENT form includes an enclosed payment , and not based on whether your original Form 1040 filing had an enclosed payment . For Form 843 , that usually means sending to the address where you would send a return without an enclosed payment . Background The city that you file for the case " And you ARE NOT enclosing a payment use this address " has the actual service center . The address to which you file the tax return is not the actual street address of the service center ; you can get these street addresses <URL> . But it 's the same city . In particular , the IRS has service centers processing individual tax returns in Kansas City ( MO ) , Austin ( TX ) , and Fresno ( CA ) . You can also get a full list of IRS service centers <URL> , including ones that do not process individual tax returns . The city where you file for the case " And you ARE enclosing a payment use this address " does not have an IRS service center . In particular , there are no IRS service centers in Louisville ( KY ) , Cincinnati ( OH ) , San Francisco ( CA ) , Cincinnati ( OH ) , and Hartford ( CT ) . The reason that tax returns with payments need to be sent to a separate location ( without a service center ) is that the payment processing is done separately at that location . My understanding is that after the payment is taken , the rest of the tax return is then forwarded to the corresponding service center . That is why the IRS tells you <URL> . For instance , for California taxpayers , those not enclosing a payment should file to a Fresno address , and those enclosing a payment should file to a San Francisco address . But the IRS has a service center in Fresno and does n't have a service center in San Francisco . Relevance to your case Therefore , the relevant criterion for deciding where to file is not the location where you originally filed your tax return , but rather , whether your current form has an enclosed payment . Since Form 843 is not usually accompanied by a payment , a case like yours most likely involves sending your form to the service center directly ( i.e. , the " And you ARE NOT enclosing a payment use this address " column address ) . The IRS does not explicitly provide Form 843 filing addresses but it <URL> , which has a somewhat similar role of making or seeking corrections . Note that the addresses listed for this are the same as the " And you ARE NOT enclosing a payment use this address " column addresses for Form 1040 , i.e. , the cities that have IRS service centers . Thus , for the example of California , you would file Form 843 ( or Form 1040X ) with the Fresno address and not the San Francisco address , as long as your Form 843 ( or Form 1040X ) is not accompanied by a payment . This would be the case even if your original Form 1040 was filed with the San Francisco address because that form included an attached payment .
If you have enough experience and information to make a reasonable guess as to the likelihood of ( 1 ) , then it makes sense to hold , generally speaking . If it were ME , and I did n't have much experience or knowledge on the specific companies involved , I 'd probably take the gain . But that 's just what I would do , based on the isolated and limited info you provided . Reality is probably a lot more complicated .
Yes , you can make the election to file your LLC as an S-Corp , and Turbo Tax Business can help you with the S-Corp business return . You need to make sure you 're set up correctly and there are a lot of things to be aware of . For example , the whole " reasonable salary " thing is a can of worms . So while the answer to your question is " yes , it 's manageable , you can do it on your own , " it might be worthwhile to have a professional help you the first year , make sure it 's set up right , and then you can do it on your own in subsequent years .
I wrote about the dynamic of why either of a lower or higher exchange rate would be good for economies in <URL> A strong currency allows consumers to import goods cheaply from the rest of the world . A weak currency allows producers to export goods cheaply to the rest of the world . People are both consumers and producers . Clearly , there have to be trade-offs . Strong or weak mean relative to Purchasing Power Parity ( i.e. you can buy more or less of an equivalent good with the same money ) . Governments worrying about unemployment will try and push their currencies weaker relative to others , no matter the cost . There will be an inflationary impact ( imported inputs cost more as a currency weakens ) but a country running a major surplus ( like China ) can afford to subsidise these costs .
SOS is Secretary of State . SOS number is the number the Secretary of State office assigned to your entity . You can find it on the LLC application form that you submitted ( assuming you kept the copy of your application returned to you ) , or by <URL> ( the first column , " entity number " , is what you 're looking for ) .
I think the right question you should ask yourself about is : Can i work at home ? is it possible ? do i have a calm , private place at home to work from ? what will be the motivation while working from ? If you got answers to these questions , you will find if you can get money from home or not , because any place you can do work from will give you money , just work !
The answer to your question depends very much on your definition of " long-term " . Because let 's make something clear : an investment horizon of three to six months is not long term . And you need to consider the length of time from when an " emergency " develops until you will need to tap into the money . Emergencies almost by definition are unplanned . When talking about investment risk , the real word that should be used is volatility . Stocks are n't inherently riskier than bonds issued by the same company . They are likely to be a more volatile instrument , however . This means that while stocks can easily gain 15-20 percent or more in a year if you are lucky ( as a holder ) , they can also easily lose just as much ( which is good if you are looking to buy , unless the loss is precipitated by significantly weaker fundamentals such as earning lookout ) . Most of the time stocks rebound and regain lost valuation , but this can take some time . If you have to sell during that period , then you lose money . The purpose of an emergency fund is generally to be liquid , easily accessible without penalties , stable in value , and provide a cushion against potentially large , unplanned expenses . If you live on your own , have good insurance , rent your home , do n't have any major household ( or other ) items that might break and require immediate replacement or repair , then just looking at your emergency fund in terms of months of normal outlay makes sense . If you own your home , have dependents , lack insurance and have major possessions which you need , then you need to factor those risks into deciding how large an emergency fund you might need , and perhaps consider not just normal outlays but also some exceptional situations . What if the refrigerator and water heater breaks down at the same time that something breaks a few windows , for example ? What if you also need to make an emergency trip near the same time because a relative becomes seriously ill ? Notice that the purpose of the emergency fund is specifically not to generate significant interest or dividend income . Since it needs to be stable in value ( not depreciate ) and liquid , an emergency fund will tend towards lower-risk and thus lower-yield investments , the extreme being cash or the for many more practical option of a savings account . Account forms geared toward retirement savings tend to not be particularly liquid . Sure , you can usually swap out one investment vehicle for another , but you ca n't easily withdraw your money without significant penalties if at all . Bonds are generally more stable in value than stocks , which is a good thing for a longer-term portion of an emergency fund . Just make sure that you are able to withdraw the money with short notice without significant penalties , and pick bonds issued by stable companies ( or a fund of investment-grade bonds ) . However , in the present investment climate , this means that you are looking at returns not significantly better than those of a high-yield savings account while taking on a certain amount of additional risk . Bonds today can easily have a place if you have to pick some form of investment vehicle , but if you have the option of keeping the cash in a high-yield savings account , that might actually be a better option . Any stock market investments should be seen as investments rather than a safety net . Hopefully they will grow over time , but it is perfectly possible that they will lose value . If what triggers your financial emergency is anything more than local , it is certainly possible to have that same trigger cause a decline in the stock market . Money that you need for regular expenses , even unplanned ones , should not be in investments . Thus , you first decide how large an emergency fund you need based on your particular situation . Then , you build up that amount of money in a savings vehicle rather than an investment vehicle . Once you have the emergency fund in savings , then by all means continue to put the same amount of money into investments instead . Just make sure to , if you tap into the emergency fund , replenish it as quickly as possible .
First make sure you know the process for paying off your current mortgage in the refinance and make sure that refinancing makes sense for you . Per the comments on <URL> , it appears that there is conflicting information about how long you can space out your shopping before the pulls start coming in separately . The shortest number quoted , and thus the safest , is within 2 days . If you research your banks in advance and do the pre-approval process at all banks within 2 days , the pulls will count as one hard pull on your credit instead of a couple/few/several . In that case the ding should be about as minimal as it can be on your credit . Do your shopping around first , pick the number of banks you can visit in 2 days to actually go through the process and get your good faith estimates from those lenders . Visit them in those 2 days . This will ensure a minimal hit to your credit . Also make sure not to be doing anything else involving your credit , especially opening up new lines of credit , before you close . EDIT : <URL> states that the window for FICO is 14 days .
The US does n't have a Value Added Tax , which is the one usually refundable upon departing the country ... so sales taxes you pay in this country stay in this country and you do n't get a refund . Just remember to treat the tax as an implied part of the price . ( And be aware that state and local taxes may vary , so the total price may be higher in one place than in another . New York City adds a few percent on top of the state sales tax , for example . ) If you are n't sure how much tax would be , do n't be afraid to ask .
end question
start question
Using stock options to lower income tax in the USA ?
You 're talking about NQO - non-qualified stock options . Even assuming the whole scheme is going to work , the way NQO are taxed is that the difference between the fair market value and the strike price is considered income to you and is taxed as salary . You 'll save nothing , and will add a huge headache and additional costs of IPO and SEC regulations .
Basically , a bonus is no different from your normal income . You will get the same benefits from putting the money in a 401 ( k ) as you would if you decided to put more of your normal income into a 401 ( k ) .
Despite a fair number of views , no one besides @mbhunter answered , so I 'll gather the findings of my own research here . Hopefully , this will help others in similar situations . If you spot any errors , please let me know ! Exercising your options and taxes : If the strike price for your stock is S and the current fair market value is F , then the difference ( F - S ) is subject to taxes , even if you do n't actually sell the stock and realize that profit . Non-qualified stock options : are subject to income taxes , which roughly means you take the " profit " from ( 1 ) and add it to your income , as if it was part of your salary . This means it gets taxed at whatever tax bracket your salary + profit end up in , usually in the 10-35 % range . ISO stock options : are not subject to income taxes , but they do get counted when calculating AMT . Although most people are n't typically subject to AMT , if you make enough profit from ( 1 ) , you may be . Not sure what the rate is for AMT , but seems to be around 25 % . AMT calculation : fill out form 6251 or use software such as TurboTax ( it takes just a couple minutes using the latter ) . Selling your options : if you sell your options at price P , the difference between ( P - F ) also has tax implications . If ( P - F ) is negative - that is , you lost money - you can write it off . I believe the maximum write off is $ 3k per year . If ( P-F ) is positive - that is , you made a profit - it gets taxed . Short term capital gains tax : if you sell your options less than one year after exercising , the profit is subject to short term capital gains tax . Similar to ( 2 ) , this roughly means the profit is tacked onto your income as if it was part of your salary and depending on what bracket you end up in , gets taxed at 10-35 % . Long term capital gains tax : if you sell your options more than one year after exercising ( and two years after the options were granted ) , the profits are subject to long term capital gains tax , which is typically 15 % . Exercising options early : some companies allow you to exercise all your options early - that is , before they actually vest ( though you still wo n't be able to actually sell them until they vest ) . Advantages of exercising options early : as soon as you exercise , the " clock starts ticking " for when you get into long term capital gains territory and consequently , pay far less taxes when you sell your options . Moreover , if the fair market value is increasing , exercising sooner minimizes ( F - S ) and consequently , minimizes the " profit " that gets taxed at the relatively high rates of income/AMT taxes as described in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Exercising when F == S and waiting at least one year to sell your options keeps taxes to an absolute minimum . Disadvantages of exercising options early : to exercise your options , you must pay ( S * N ) + ( F - S ) ( N ) ( income tax or AMT rate ) where S = strike price , F = fair market value , N = number of shares . This may be a lot of money up front , especially given that you might not actually be able to sell these options for a long time . Moreover , by the time you can sell , it 's possible that the stock tanks - or perhaps the company does n't go public in the first place - at which point you 're out a lot of money .
No , that was not the right thing to do . A W-9 is the form used to certify that you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien for U.S. federal tax purposes . You want to fill out a W-8BEN , available on the <URL> There is a spot on a W-8BEN for you to include your U.S. social security number . A Form W-8 is used to certify that you are NOT a U.S. resident for U.S. federal tax purposes .
This will probably require some explanation from you on the source of the money and the reasons for the transaction . Cash transactions over $ 10k will be reported by the bank ( in this case ) on a <URL> . Keep in mind , mere breaking the transaction into multiple smaller ones in order to avoid the CTR is on its own a criminal offense . Just deposit what you want to deposit , and report what 's needed to be reported . Note that if you 're a US tax resident - these foreign bank accounts must have been reported already to <URL> , if not - you should expect a very nasty audit with the IRS .
Charitable donations are deducted from your taxable income . The impact to the amount of tax you pay depends on your tax bracket . So if you are in a 25 % tax bracket you will save $ .25 per dollar that you donate to charity . There are limits to the amount of charitable donations you can claim depending on your filing status ( single , married , etc. ) and your taxable income . In order to claim charitable donations you have to itemize your deductions which means that you ca n't use the 1040EZ form . Depending on your situation it may be better to take the standard deduction rather than itemize . The charitable organization will issue you a receipt for donations given during the tax year and you should receive that from them by the end of January . I believe you need to have a receipt in order to legally deduct the donation from your taxes .
Neither . A Look at <URL> will show you the math by which taxable income is calculated . 22 lines to get to your total income . 37 to your adjusted gross , 61 to your taxable income . ( Note , there are tax credits that may appear in the remaining lines , which can wipe out any or all of the tax bill of line 61 . You can be in the 10 % bracket , but have Uncle Sam pick up the remaining tab . ) For most people in the US , personal exemptions and the standard deduction are the two largest reductions to one 's income . For the next group , it 's the <URL> that will tally enough deductions to exceed the standard deduction and the taxpayer benefits from " itemizing . " The recent Question <URL> should answer how you know your bracket once you arrive at your taxable income .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
From my friends at <URL> this is the 2012 tax table . This is the table of tax due on taxable income , i.e. the ' bottom line ' of the return after all deductions , credits , etc. . If your taxable income is exactly $ 35,350 , you are " in the 15 % bracket " as the last $ 100 was taxed at 15 % . But , the next $ 100 of income would be taxed at 25 % . Yes , part of the 401 ( k ) process is that you need to be aware of what the tax would have been on the pre-tax 401 ( k ) money . Since a Roth is post-tax money , it does n't change your bracket , only pre-tax 401 ( k ) or Traditional IRA will do that . At a taxable $ 50,000 , you are clearly in the 25 % bracket and would choose your account accordingly . You can see above , the way the tax structure works is progressive . i.e. . The tax on $ 35,350 is fixed at $ 4867.50 and only the amount above this is taxed at 25 % . The next $ 100 or $ 1000 in taxable income wo n't push other income into the higher bracket . Many use the strategy user102008 alluded to , navigating one 's retirement deposits so the pretax account saved them from 25 % income , but does n't drop too far into the 15 % bracket . A mix of Traditional 401 ( k ) , Roth 401 ( k ) , Traditional IRA , and Roth IRA , can help you hit the goal dead-on if you are willing to pay a bit of attention during the year .
From the <URL> : Subject to the provisions of Articles 16 ( Directors ' Fees ) , 17 ( Artistes and Athletes ) , 18 ( Pensions , Annuities , Alimony , and Child Support ) , 19 ( Government Service ; Social Security ) , and 20 ( Visiting Professors and Teachers ; Students and Trainees ) , salaries , wages , and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State , unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State . Looks like you 're out of luck on this . You have to pay the US taxes .
Let 's say we have an investment with a 12 % gross rate , compounded monthly . We invest a million pounds . That works out to a 1 % rate per month . So after twelve months of compounding , we have a number that is 12.682503 % higher than the original . So we might say that our AER is 12.7 % . If we had simply multiplied our original amount by 1.127 , we would have almost gotten the right answer . Note that your actual bank may handle rounding differently . Also , 12 % is clearly a ridiculous interest rate . I picked it for easy division and multiplication , not realism . Similarly , compounding is more likely to be daily than monthly . But I 'm way too lazy to write out 366 lines of investment numbers . And of course I do n't actually have a million pounds to invest . I just did n't want to round off after just a couple digits . Any taxes would have been paid out of a separate account or perhaps this is some kind of tax free account . Again , purely for convenience .
Firstly , the <URL> . Unless you can show that you use that transit pass for travelling to work OTHER THAN to and from your normal place of work , you ca n't claim it . Who deducts the cost of travel in other circumstances depends on who pays it . If the corporation pays , the corporation deducts . I believe that if the company pays your transport costs then that counts as part of your salary and you would pay tax on it ( the company can consider it an expense ) . EDIT : As Chris Rea points out , there is a tax credit for transit passes ( which can be claimed no matter why you bought them ) . It 's a personal tax credit only , so you have to have bought them and you claim the credit . Whether you are a contractor or an employee or unemployed makes no difference .
It 's <URL> in Canada ( <URL> ) . Note that if you are getting a refund , rather than paying more taxes , you can be as late as you want without penalty .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Americans are snapping , like crazy . And not only Americans , I know a lot of people from out of country are snapping as well , similarly to your Australian friend . The market is crazy hot . I 'm not familiar with Cleveland , but I am familiar with Phoenix - the prices are up at least 20-30 % from what they were a couple of years ago , and the trend is not changing . However , these are not something " everyone " can buy . It is very hard to get these properties financed . I found it impossible ( as mentioned , I bought in Phoenix ) . That means you have to pay cash . Not everyone has tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash available for a real estate investment . For many Americans , 30-60K needed to buy a property in these markets is an amount they can not afford to invest , even if they have it at hand . Also , keep in mind that investing in rental property requires being able to support it - pay taxes and expenses even if it is not rented , pay to property managers , utility bills , gardeners and plumbers , insurance and property taxes - all these can amount to quite a lot . So its not just the initial investment . Many times " advertised " rents are not the actual rents paid . If he indeed has it rented at $ 900 - then its good . But if he was told " hey , buy it and you 'll be able to rent it out at $ 900 " - would n't count on that . I know many foreigners who fell in these traps . Do your market research and see what the costs are at these neighborhoods . Keep in mind , that these are distressed neighborhoods , with a lot of foreclosed houses and a lot of unemployment . It is likely that there are houses empty as people are moving out being out of job . It may be tough to find a renter , and the renters you find may not be able to pay the rent . But all that said - yes , those who can - are snapping .
Sec . 132 refers to 26 USC § 132 . Title 26 of the USC ( United States Code ) is what is commonly referred to as the " US Tax Code " . Note the US - this is the United States federal law , not the New Jersey law . State tax law does n't have to be the exact copy of the Federal law , and in most cases it is in fact not . In your case , New Jersey does n't conform to the Federal benefit in that that for State taxes this benefit does n't exist . As the result , your wages for State Tax purposes are not the same as your wages for Federal tax purposes .
Generally speaking , you realize options gains or losses for ( US ) tax purposes when you close out the option position , or when it expires so in your example , if you 're discussing an equity option , you 'd realize the gain or loss next year , assuming you do n't close it out prior to year end . But options tax treatment can get messy fast : The above is not true for options on broad-based indices ( like the S&amp;P 500 ) . So-called " 1256 contracts " on such indices realize gains or losses based on the mark-to-market value at year end , regardless of when they are closed or expire . If you have other positions in options on the same underlying stock , or the stock itself , it 's more complex . For example , if you had sold shares of the stock at a loss in the 30 days prior to selling deep in the money naked puts , you 'd likely trigger the wash sale rule , forcing you to defer the losses you took in the stock . Similarly , if you shorted stock this year while you had gains in the naked put position , you would potentially trigger the " short sale " rule , which would force you to realize gains on the naked put this year , unless you qualify for something called the " short-term hedge exemption " . Still , if you have no other stock or option positions in the underlying during or within 30 days of the establishment of the naked put , and assuming the option is n't assigned , you wo n't realize any gains or losses until the year in which the option is closed or expires .
If I were you , I would pay off the student loan as quick as possible . Here 's the reason : A 6 % guaranteed return-on-investment is pretty good . And that is essentially what you are getting when you pay off your debt . I understand the feeling of being behind on your retirement savings , but when the debt is gone , you 'll also have the monthly expense of loan payments gone , so you 'll be able to put away even more toward retirement at that time . The quicker you can get rid of the debt and start saving up for retirement , the better , so I would challenge you to push yourself a little bit to make it happen sooner . See if you can knock this out in 18 months by either reducing your expenses a little more or increasing your income a little bit .
No state taxes , but Italy also has a favorable treaty with the US Federal Government . Look into to lowering your federal taxes to 5 % ;) its a thick read , <URL> and also try to determine if the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion applies to you , reducing your Federal tax to ZERO on the first $ 95,100 earned abroad . <URL> but then you may be subject to a 20 % + italy tax . so maybe you should just try for the tax treaty
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
end question
start question
How to receive packages pseudonymously ?
I 've done this before for startup companies where I did n't want the mailing address to really obviously be my apartment or home address . Just for appearances . What you should be Googling are terms like " private mailbox center . " If I recall correctly , I used to do this with Mail Boxes Etc before they were bought by UPS . This seems to be the equivalent offering these days : <URL> I have n't looked at a dummy office for receiving mail -- I imagine that is a bit more expensive . Unless people are delivering things in person I think that would be overkill -- the Fedex guy does n't care if his package delivery is to a UPS mailbox center .
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
The <URL> has a section called <URL> . Below a certain income , you are not required to file a tax return and pay any tax . This amount of income at which you are required to file depends on several things , including your dependency status ( you are a dependent of your parents ) , your marital status , and other factors . The instructions have charts that show what these numbers are . You would fall under <URL> . Assuming that you are under age 65 , unmarried , and not blind , you only have to file when you reach the following conditions : Your unearned income was over $ 1,050 . Your earned income was over $ 6,300 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,050 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,950 ) plus $ 350 . ( Note : Income from YouTube would count as " earned income " for the purposes above . ) However , if you are producing your own videos and receiving revenue from them , you are technically self-employed . This means that the conditions from <URL> also apply , which state : You must file a return if any of the five conditions below apply for 2015 . You had net earnings from self-employment of at least $ 400 . As a self-employed person , you can deduct business expenses ( expenses that you incur in producing your product , which is this case is your videos ) . Once your revenue minus your expenses reach $ 400 , you will need to file an income tax return .
There is no simple way to calculate how much house any given person can afford . In the answer keshlam gave , several handy rules of thumb are mentioned that are used as common screening devices to reject loans , but in every case further review is required to approve any loan . The 28 % rule is the gold standard for estimating how much you can afford , but it is only an estimate ; all the details ( that you do n't want to provide ) are required to give you anything better than an estimate . In the spirit of JoeTaxpayer 's answer I 'm going to give you a number that you can multiply your gross income by for a good estimate , but my estimate is based on a 15 year mortgage . Assuming a 15 year mortgage with a 3 % interest rate , it will cost $ 690.58 per $ 100,000 borrowed . So to take those numbers and wrap it up in a bow , you can multiply your income by 3.38 and have the amount of mortgage that most people can afford . If you have a down-payment saved add it to the number above for the total price of the home you can buy after closing costs are added in . Property taxes and insurance rates vary widely , and those are often rolled into the mortgage payment to be paid from an escrow account , banks may consider all of these factors in their calculators but they may not be transparent . If you ca n't afford to pay it in 15 years , you really ca n't afford it . Compare the same $ 100k loan : In 30 years at 4 % you pay about $ 477/month with a total of about $ 72k in interest over the life of the loan . In 15 years at 3 % you pay about $ 691/month but the total interest is only $ 24k , and you are out of the loan in half of the time . The equity earned in the first 5 years is also signficantly different with 28.5 % for the 15 year loan vs. 9.5 % on the 30 year loan . Without straying too far into general economics , 15 year loans would also have averted the mortgage crisis of 2008 , because more people would have had enough equity that they would n't have walked out on their homes when there was a price correction .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
File a small claims lawsuit in the city that the person resides . The court will charge you a small fee and give you a date . They will also summons the other person to appear . Bring all the documentation that shows the following The contractor ( you ) The contractee ( your friend ) The goods being transferred ( in your case the money with exact amount ) The start date of the agreement The end date of the agreement Proof that you transferred the money to them BONUS - Bring the documentation that shows them saying they will not pay you back I had to sue someone once for a very similar problem . I lent them a 6 month interest free loan . They told me to shove it after 6 months and 1 day . So I sued them . The court should accept facebook messages as proof . More than likely though your friend wont even show up which means you win by default . Here 's the bad news , that was the easy part . Just because you win in court does n't mean the money appears the next day . There are a couple ways you may have to recover your money . Ask REALLY nicely for it back ( no seriously , this is the easiest ) File for wage garnishment ( state dependent ) Sell your claim to collections company to collect for you Hire an executioner ( The city has a sheriff usually that handles this . Call them and ask the fee , last resort ) Best of luck to you !
Using Fundamental and Technical Analysis together is actually a good idea for longer term trading of up to 6 months or longer . The whole idea behind trading with Technical Analysis is to increase the probabilities of a trade going in the desired direction by using uncorrelated indicators that produce the same signal to buy or sell at the same time . For example , you might use a Moving Average ( MA ) as a buy signal when the price falls for a few days , hits the MA and then reverses and starts moving back up . If however , you also include a Stochastic Oscillator ( SO ) to indicate when the stock is oversold ( under 20 % ) , and if the price rebounds from the MA average at the same time as the Stochastic is crossing over in the oversold position , then this may be a higher probability trade . If you also only trade stocks that are Fundamentally healthy ( as fundamentally good stocks are more likely to go up than fundamentally bad stocks ) then this might increase the probabilities again . Then if you only buy when the market as a whole is moving up , then this will increase your chances again . A few weeks ago at a seminar , the presenter totalled the men in the room to be 76 and the women in the room to be 8 . He then asked what will most likely be the next person to walk in the room - a man or a woman ? The statistics are on the side of a wan walking in next . This is what we try to do with Technical Analysis , increase our chances when we take a trade . Of course a woman could be the next person to walk in the room , just like any trade can go against you , and this is why we use money management and risk management and take a small loss when a trade does go against you . Lets look at an example where you could incorporate FA with TA to increase your chances of profits : <URL> Above is a candlestick chart of Select Harvest ( SHV ) , the green line above the price is the perceived value , the pink line is the 40 day MA , the blue line is the EPS , and the white lines is the Stochastic Oscillator ( above 80 % being overbought and below 20 % is oversold ) . From Feb 2015 to start of Aug 2015 the stock was uptrending , since then the price reversed and started to downtrend . The stock was determined to be fundamentally good early in 2015 with the perceived value gradually increasing and greater than the share price , and the EPS starting to increase regularly from mid April . Thus , as the stock is seen as fundamentally healthy any price reversal in the vicinity of the MA could be seen as a buy opportunity . In fact there where 2 such opportunities on 31st March and 11th June where price had reversed and rebounded off the MA whist the SO crossed over in or near the oversold area . The price did reverse and then rebounded off the MA again on 9th July , however the SO was not in or near the oversold area on this occasion , so not as high in probability terms . The price still rebounded and went up again , however another momentum indicator ( not shown here ) shows some bearish divergence in this case - so another reason to possibly keep away at this point in time . A good signal to get out of the trade , that is your stop loss has not already taken you out , is when the price breaks and closes below the MA line . This occurred on 7th August . So if we had bought on the first signal on 31st March for $ 7.41 and sold when the priced broke through the MA on 7th August for $ 11.76 , we would have made a profit of approx . 59 % in just over 4 months . If bought on the second signal on 11th June for $ 9.98 and again sold on 7th August for $ 11.76 , we would have made about 18 % in under 2 months . So the fundamentals , the Price ( in relation to MA ) and the SO where all lining up to provide two high probability trades . Of course you would need to incorporate you risk management ( including stops ) in case the price did not continue upwards after you bought . If the market is also moving up on the day of the signal this will further increase your chances . Unless you day trade , which I would avoid , a good way to enter your trades after a signal is to enter a stop buy order after market close to buy if the price moves above the high of the signal day . That way if the market and the stock open and move lower during the day after the signal you avoid entering the trade altogether . This can be incorporated as part of your risk management and trading rules . After the price broke down through the MA we can see that a downtrend commenced which is still current today ( in fact I just took a short trade on this stock yesterday ) . We can also see that the perceived value , whilst still above the price , has reached a peak and is currently moving downwards and the EPS after being flat for a few months has just moved down for the first time in 10 months . So maybe the fundamentals are starting to waver a bit on this stock . It may be a good stock to continue shorting into the future . So basically you can continue using Fundamental Analysis to select which stocks to buy , place them in a watch-lis
Use a currency ETF . there are many . Specific to your question there is <URL> I do n't happen to find a currency ETF for Thailand , so the closest you could come to a Thai currency fund would be something that 's an Index fund ETF that is based on an index in the Thai Market such as : <URL> Because that fund is investing in an index of stocks that trade on the Thai market , you are in effect investing in something denominated in Baht . This is spelled out in the prospectus where it discusses ' currency risk ' . The problem is that you are however not investing in just the currency , but rather a broad index of stocks denominated in that currency . Still to the extent the market holds fairly steady , you get much the same effect of investing in just the currency . to the extent the market is moving , you get the net effect of what the thai market does , plus how the bhat trades relative to the dollar .
I 'm not sure there 's much meaningful diversification at Lending Club across loan quality . The important diversification is to have a lot of different borrowers . When you talk about diversifying investments , what you 're going for is to have uncorrelated asset classes , so when one thing goes down , something else might go up , giving you overall less " noise " and more consistent results . Across loan qualities , correlation is pretty high I bet . If consumers come under economic strain , you 'll get increased defaults at all loan qualities . It is n't like having stocks and bonds , where one might go up while the other goes down . All the loan qualities will ( relatively ) suffer at the same time , though the lower qualities will ( absolutely ) suffer more . Anyway the correlation probably is n't perfect so there 's probably some theoretical diversification benefit across loan qualities , but I just doubt it 's big . Maybe someone else has numbers . What you do need is diversification across borrowers . All the loan qualities , statistically on average , should have similar returns ( slightly more for lower quality ) . But they get there in a really different way , either lower interest rates with few defaults , or higher interest rates but more defaults . The " more defaults " way is lumpier and should take , on average , more borrowers and more time to average out to the expected rate of return . Regardless of loan quality , if you only loan to a few people you could easily lose all your money . Important to spread out among a lot of people so you can be fine if some of them take the money and run .
There are only two things you can directly do with the money in an Amazon gift card : you can keep the gift card , or you can put the money into your Amazon account . There are n't any other options . You ca n't deposit the value into a bank account or anything like that . So , as far as safety , those are the only options you need to consider , because there 's nothing else you can do . ( Okay , there is one other thing you can do : you could sell the card to someone else , or barter it for something you want . But you can do that with anything . ) The " gift card " is basicaly just a string of numbers and letters that you put into your Amazon account and it credits you with the appropriate amount of money . So yes , it can be stolen . If you have n't redeemed it yet , someone could find the code by hacking your email or looking over your shoulder or whatever . If they redeem it , you wo n't be able to do so . As for your edit : If I do n't transfer the balance of the Amazon egift card to my Amazon account , can I transfer the balance to other accounts or use the card to buy other gift cards ? If you do n't transfer it to your account , you can transfer the balance to another account by giving the code to someone else and letting them deposit it in their account . You still wo n't be able to buy other gift cards with it , because you ca n't buy anything with it until it 's deposited in an Amazon account , and once it 's deposited in an Amazon account , you ca n't buy gift cards with it because of their policy . If you do n't want the restrictions imposed by Amazon , do n't buy Amazon gift cards ; instead , just use your actual money to buy things . If you 're worried about the cards being stolen , just deposit them into your account right away and you eliminate the risk of them being stolen . If , as you say , you bought the cards for yourself , there 's no reason not to do this ; presumably you bought them so you could buy things on Amazon , and you 'll have to deposit them into your account eventually anyway to do that , so just put them in right away . I do n't know specifically how Walmart cards work , but I assume they 're the same . In general , anything called a " gift card " offered by a particular retailer works the same way : you ca n't do anything with it except buy products at that retailer . The only thing that really makes Amazon different is that the only way to use your card is to add the money to your Amazon account , because the only way to pay for things on Amazon is with an Amazon account . There 's no way to spend just some of the value ; you have to deposit it all into your account . With gift cards for retailers with physical locations , you can usually use the value up piecemeal , by actually going to a store and spending just enough to buy something . ( I assume Walmart works this way , although I do n't know if you can use an e-gift card this way there . )
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
You can invest upto $ 200K per year abroad , and yes , you can buy Google as a stock . Consider opening an international account with a broker like interactive brokers ( www.interactivebrokers.co.in ) which allows you to fund the account from your local Indian account , and then on , buy shares of companies listed abroad .
Your credit score is only affected by the status of loans and credit accounts which are yours , either alone or jointly with someone else . Bank accounts are not usually considered on credit reports or credit scores . So to answer your questions : If one person took on a lot of debt or ruined his or her credit score , does that affect the other person 's score in any way ? One person can not directly affect another person 's credit , except to the extent that they can affect ( by not paying ) shared obligations . If someone with whom you share a joint loan goes bad on other debts , it will affect their credit score but not yours . How would it affect future joint loan applications ? I 'm not so sure on this one , as it would be up to the lender . They would probably consider both applicant 's credit scores and reports , so one person 's bad credit would probably affect the outcome of the loan application .
They generally approve for basic options trading ( buying calls ) based on overall experience and will grant more rights as you build experience . I 'd question how you have " more than the average investor 's knowledge " about options if you 've never traded them before , but that really does n't matter . They 're trying to protect you from yourself and satisfy legal requirements to that effect . If you want access , just lie and say you 've been trading for a decade , hundreds of times a year . They ca n't verify it and wo n't ask for proof . Source : I did this
Is this the most direct way ( removing the middle man ) of investing in stocks ? There ai n't no middleman , like the old days . But if you take it literally , the broker is the middleman . What other services should I consider ? Use a comparison website or trawl the web for opinions and reviews . Pay particular importance to how client money is safeguarded , the financial health of the service provider , which regions you can trade , commissions , inactivity fee , read between the lines of their agreement before you sign on the dotted lines and if they provide other services too and of what kind . And if you want to walk away , what will be the consequences and if they provide a grace period or not . what platform I should use ? Which platform you use , should be dependent on your requirements and on your requirements alone . Not what I use or what the seller is offering . Do n't go for gimmicky offerings , but check how it will benefit you now or in the future .
This is called " <URL> " . If your company is publicly traded it is definitely doable through your broker . If your company is private , you 'll have to ask them if it is possible , and if it is - how the process works . Re taxes , hard to tell since you did n't mention what country you 're from . But generally , in all the tax jurisdictions I know of ( which is not a lot ) the amount you get above the amount that you paid is considered salary in this scenario and is taxed accordingly .
Anytime you do work without any payment until the work is complete , you are effectively extending credit to the party receiving your service . How much credit you are willing to extend will vary greatly , depending on the amount and the trustworthiness of the party . For example , if you are charging $ 50 for something , you probably wo n't bother to collect money upfront , whereas if you are charging $ 5,000 you probably would collect some upfront . But if the party you are working for is a large financially sound company , the number may be even much higher than $ 5K as you can trust you will be paid . Obviously there are many factors that go into how much credit you are willing to extend to your customer . ( This is why credit reports exist for banks to determine how much credit to extend to you . ) As for the specific case you are asking about , which may be classified as a decent amount of work for a small business , I would default to having a written scope of work , a place in the document for both parties to sign , and specify 50 % upfront payment and 50 % payment at completion . When you receive the signed document and the upfront payment ( and possibly even after the check clears ) , you begin work . I would call this my " default contract " and adjust according to your needs depending on the size of the job and the trustworthiness of the customer . As for your question about how to deposit the check , that depends on what type of entity you are . If you are a sole proprietor you should ask for the checks to be made out to you . If you are a business then the checks should be made out to your business name . You do n't need " in trust " or anything similar because your customer , after paying the upfront fee , must trust that you will do the work you promise to do , just like you have to trust that after completing the work you will receive the final payment . This is the reason the default is 50 % before and after . Both parties are risking ( roughly ) the same amount . Tip : having done the " default " contract many times in my career , both as a sole proprietor and a business owner , I can assure you there is a big difference between a potential customer agreeing to something in advance , and actually writing a check . The upfront payment definitely helps weed out those that were never going to end up paying you , even if their intentions were good . Tip 2 : be as specific as possible as to what the scope of work will include . If you do n't , particularly with software , they 'll be adding feature after feature and expecting it to be " included " .
I agree with QuantK the easiest way is through an investment in ETFs . The other possibilities are : Buy commodities in the spot market . i.e. you just buy the commodity you want and hold on to it . This implies that you will need to store it , which you probably do n't . Hence , the next alternative . Futures . Investing in futures is not something you should consider without doing your homework first ! Futures positions are taken on margin and are thus " bought " with leverage . Furthermore , futures contract have a maturity date . This means that you would need to " roll " your position if you want to keep exposure to the commodity . In addition you should note that spot market returns are not necessarily the same as movements in futures returns due to basis risk and differences in timing ( futures typically converge to the spot price the closer to maturity but in essence reflect price discovery over time ) . If you want to invest in commodities through taking a position in futures contracts I advise you to become familiar with at least the following concepts : roll returns ( backwardation/contango term structures ) , margin ( especially what kind of collateral your broker accepts ) and transaction costs . ETFs typically invest in commodities through one of the above stated possibilities . They either arrange storage or they make sure futures positions are rolled . If ETFs invest through futures your return typically consist of the futures return and the return on collateral ( typically some bond portfolio ) . There are also other other derivates which you can consider but in the end these are typically linked to futures returns .
The cost of Alzheimer 's care depends on the facility that provides this care . Specialized facilities usually have higher costs than general geriatric care ones . Though there are several ways to cover the cost : Long Term Care Insurance Veterans Benefits Renting or Selling the House Medicare Medicaid I think you 'd better read the article <URL> or learn their brochure <URL>
end question
start question
What is it called when someone researches the manufacturing costs of a company to determine their profit level ?
Just looking at the production cost would n't be anywhere near enough , but I think you are looking at " fundamental analysis " . With fundamental analysis you try to estimate the actual value of a company , compare it to share prices , and buy shares where the fundamental value is higher than the share price , assuming that the market will eventually figure out that the shares are worth more , and then the share price goes up . With " technical analysis " you do n't care what the company is worth , you just look at how the share prices has moved in the past and predict future share prices from that .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
Just to be clear , this is a 2011 tax table . No problem as an example , but I do n't want you paying the wrong tax if you 're actually using this now . Beyond that , you 've got the right idea , but you need to keep track of the progressive nature at each rung . The first line your table is so if you 're in the lowest bracket you just pay 10 % . The second line is The third column contains 10 % of the top of the first bracket , which is 10 % of $ 8,500 . So far so good . Now the third line is Now to get the third column here , you take the $ 850 from the third column of the second line , and you add 15 % of ( $ 34,500 - $ 8,550 ) . In other words , you 're adding the marginal tax for the full width of the previous bracket only .
My experience is with Carnival Cruise lines . It may be different on other lines . The two biggest things that will run up your tab are drinks and shore excursions . Drinks : Expect to pay $ 2 - $ 4 for a beer or coke , and $ 7 - $ 12 for a mixed drink . You can often buy a " Fountain card " or something like that that is a fixed price for sodas throughout the cruise . Probably a good deal if you are a big soda drinker or are with kids . You get juice , iced tea and water at no charge . Oh yeah , and they add an automatic tip on every drink . I 'm sure you could ask them to take the tip off , but you 'd look like a tool for doing it considering the ( mostly ) Phillipinos who serve you drinks are probably working 16 hour days for peanuts . Shore Excursions : These can really add up . You could easily double the price of your cruise if you do a lot of the higher end ones . You can usually save a ton of money by not booking them through the cruise ship and just pre-arranging them through the internet or booking them at the kiosks that are inevitably right next to the dock at each port . The cruise director will tell you all sorts of scary stories to dissuade you from doing this , but it is mostly bunk . Often the cruise ship goes through the exact same tour companies and they add as much as a 2-3x markup . The Fancy Dining option : There is usually a high-end restaurant that you need reservations for and charges a $ 25 - $ 30/person . I never bother with them . The regular dining options are good enough for me . But if you are a surf &amp; turf aficionado you might want to budget for that . Internet is super expensive , around 70 cents a minute if I recall . You can buy bulk minutes , but it is n't that much cheaper . You are better off just bringing a laptop or smartphone and using them in ports . I had no trouble finding free wifi at most ports . Cell Phone : Danger Will Robinson ! Your cell phone will work on-board , but be prepared for a huge bill when you get back . I STRONGLY suggest turning off your phone on board or at least disabling the ability to receive calls and text messages . You can passively run up a bill that way . Tips : This is one thing I like about cruises . They just add about $ 10/day/person to your bill for tips and there is an option at the end of the cruise to add to that tip for the room steward , maitre 'd , etc. . There is absolutely no pressure at all to add to that tip , i.e. there is no one standing with their palm out . I never minded tipping for service , I always just hated having to carry cash around to do it . They make this process very easy on board . You really do n't need to have cash on board at all . Bottom Line : I tend to buy at least a few drinks/day and find my own shore excursions . With a few souvenirs thrown in here and there I typically spend about 50 % of the cruise price in extras per person .
If your gross pay is $ 2000 per month and you are depositing $ 200 into the 401-K , the company sees this as a 10 % contribution . If they match 100 % up to 5 % they will contribute 5 % of the gross or $ 100 per month . It does n't matter if your contribution is pre - or post-tax and it does n't matter to the company what your tax bracket is . Also note that all of their contributions are considered pre-tax . Keep in mind that in the quoted example ignored Social Security , Medicare , state taxes , health insurance ...
The list of the public companies is available on the regulatory agencies ' sites usually ( for example , in the US , you can look at SEC filings ) . Otherwise , you can check the stock exchange listings , which show all the public companies traded on that exchange . The shareholders , on the other hand , are normally not listed and not published . You 'll have to ask the company , and it probably wo n't tell you ( and wo n't even know them all as many shares are held in the " street name " of the broker ) .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
An RRSP loan is most beneficial when the performance of your alternative investments ( mutual funds ? ) do worse than your loan rate . For example , suppose you have $ 100K in an RRSP . You withdraw $ 50K in a loan for your mortgage and keep the remaining $ 50K invested in mutual funds . If the market ( and your mutual funds ) lose 10 % than in 1 year , your RRSP will hold $ 45K of mutual funds . The $ 50K mortgage loan is now worth more than $ 50K because you 've made principal and interest payments into your RRSP . When the market is going down , a loan against your RRSP will " pay " better than investments . Essentially you are selling High and buying Low . Unfortunately , it can be hard to predict the market well enough to time this well .
It 's provincial jurisdiction , so it can vary by province . <URL> , it 's different when an employee quits vs. being terminated : Quiting : Employed at least thirty days but less than one year : one week Employed at least one year : two weeks Being terminated : Employed at least thirty days but less than one year : one week Employed at least one year and less than three years : two weeks Employed at least three years and less than five years : four weeks Employed at least five years and less than ten years : six weeks Employed at least ten years : eight weeks Edit : At least in Manitoba , according to the above link , an employer ca n't set different notice periods . Effective April 30 , 2007 , employers can not have alternate notice policies . A notice policy set under the previous legislation is not valid . The only exclusion is a unionized workplace , where a collective agreement has a probationary period that is one year or less . <URL> , on the other hand does n't have anything legislated about resignation notice except under a couple very specific circumstances . This <URL> for contracts to put in place their own requirements . In this case , you can be sued for provable losses ( minus the savings from not having to pay you . )
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
Why do you care if it 's " legal " ? If you are concerned about the security implications and do n't want to do it , then do n't do it . If the company wo n't accept your deposits without it , then go to another investment company . There are hundreds of them out there . I have never , ever had someone ask for a scanned image of my credit card , and I 've done business with at least half a dozen investment companies , so this is not a standard industry practice . You have at your disposal a protection far stronger than the ability to bring some sort of legal complaint : You can take your business elsewhere . Doing that does n't require hiring a lawyer or going to court or anything . You just do it . All that said , there are ways to avoid creating much additional security risk . I presume you 've already given them your name , address , card number , and security code over the phone or through their website , so you 've trusted them with this information , and if hackers or the NSA wanted to snoop on your private information , they could have done it then . Okay , a web page might have used https and thus been encrypted while an email is not . So three solutions : ( a ) If they provide an upload on an https page , use that and you have no more security risk than when you originally entered this information . ( b ) Put the scanned image into an encrypted file before emailing , like say an encrypted PDF , or encrypt the image file with some other software , and then send them the password in a separate email . ( c ) You can get fairly decent security by sending the front and back of the card in two separate emails sent at different times . Then a hacker would have to intercept both and be able to connect them to each other . BTW I would n't really worry about the NSA intercepting such emails . I presume that if they want access to your credit card account , they have easier ways to accomplish that than figuring out this unusual system . Unless they have some specific reason to target you or this investment company , they 're probably not searching for images of credit cards in emails .
I 'd suggest you run a credit check on the new tenant . If you reject based on this , they have little to argue as this is an objective number . It 's no guarantee , but a high credit score says a lot . Edit - I added a chart in response to your last comment . You can be as choosy as you wish , the request for credit check is to weed out the potential disasters more than to find a golden 800 score . I agree with Rob , a 650-700 cutoff would give you the top 1/2 - 1/3 of potential applicants .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
If bond rates are falling , investors will want to buy longer-term bonds in order to LOCK IN today 's ( presumably ) higher rate for as long as possible . If bond rates are rising , investors will prefer to buy shorter-term bonds that can be ROLLED OVER at ( presumably ) higher rates later .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
In my experience , this choice is entirely up to the bank itself . There was a time when , given my mothers ATM card I could go to the bank and pull money for her , but the bank has since changed their rules and now they only will allow people listed on the account to access it , card or no card . If the bank is aware of who you are and knows that your friend is not you , they may be skeptical of allowing your friend to withdraw any money , or they might not care , it 's at their discretion . If they do not know who either of you are , if your friend has the card and information needed , that will likely be sufficient , unless they ask for identification .
It 's a form of debt issued by the United States Treasury . As the name implies , a 10-year note is held for 10 years ( after which you get the face value in cash ) , and it pays interest twice per year . It 's being used in the calculator to stand for a readily available , medium-term , nearly risk-free investment , as a means of " discounting " the value that the company gains . The explanation for why the discounting is done can be found on the page you linked . As a Canadian you could use the yield of comparable Canadian treasury securities as quoted by Bank of Canada ( which seem to have had the bottom fall out since the new year ) , although I do n't suppose American notes would be hard for a Canadian investor to come by , so if you wanted to be conservative you could use the US figure as long as it 's higher .
I have to agree with you . On the short sale , it 's clear the owner is gone . But - On a great foreclosure deal , so long as you have a legitimate title company offering title insurance , the risk should be acceptable .
end question
start question
Pay taxes through employer payroll withholding for 1099 work ?
Yes , asking your employer paying you W-2 wages to withhold additional income tax is a convenient way of paying taxes on self-employment income without the hassle of making quarterly payments of estimated tax . This is particularly useful if your self-employment income starts ( or increases dramatically ) towards the end of the year when you already have missed some quarterly payment deadlines . Taxes withheld are regarded as being withheld uniformly through the year even if there was a big increase in withholding in the last few months . That is , one-fourth of the total amount withheld is deemed to have been paid in timely fashion as the quarterly installment due , and so one can avoid penalties for underpayment of tax in earlier quarterly installments . Be sure to include enough to cover the Social Security tax and Medicare tax owed by you on your self-employment income ( both the employer 's share and the employee 's share ) in your calculations when you ask your employer to withhold additional income tax from your wages . As you say , it all goes into the same bucket on your Form 1040 .
While she can certainly get an LLC or EIN , it is n't necessarily required or needed . She can file as a sole-proprietor on her ( or your joint ) taxes by filling out a schedule-C addition to the 1040 . Any income or losses will pass through to your existing income situation ( from W-2 's and such ) . The general requirement for filing as a business in this regard has nothing to do with any minimum income , revenue , or size . It is simply the intent to treat it as a business , and unlike a hobby , the overall intent to earn a profit eventually . If you 're currently reporting the 1099-MISC income , but not deducting the expenses , this would be a means for you to offset the income with the expenses you mentioned ( and possibly other legitimate ones ) . There is no " 2 % AGI " restriction for schedule-C .
A re-financing , or re-fi , is when a debtor takes out a new loan for the express purpose of paying off an old one . This can be done for several reasons ; usually the primary reason is that the terms of the new loan will result in a lower monthly payment . Debt consolidation ( taking out one big loan at a relatively low interest rate to pay off the smaller , higher-interest loans that rack up , like credit card debt , medical bills , etc ) is a form of refinancing , but you most commonly hear the term when referring to refinancing a home mortgage , as in your example . To answer your questions , most of the money comes from a new bank . That bank understands up front that this is a re-fi and not " new debt " ; the homeowner is n't asking for any additional money , but instead the money they get will pay off outstanding debt . Therefore , the net amount of outstanding debt remains roughly equal . Even then , a re-fi can be difficult for a homeowner to get ( at least on terms he 'd be willing to take ) . First off , if the homeowner owes more than the home 's worth , a re-fi may not cover the full principal of the existing loan . The bank may reject the homeowner outright as not creditworthy ( a new house is a HUGE ding on your credit score , trust me ) , or the market and the homeowner 's credit may prevent the bank offering loan terms that are worth it to the homeowner . The homeowner must often pony up cash up front for the closing costs of this new mortgage , which is money the homeowner hopes to recoup in reduced interest ; however , the homeowner may not recover all the closing costs for many years , or ever . To answer the question of why a bank would do this , there are several reasons : The bank offering the re-fi is usually not the bank getting payments for the current mortgage . This new bank wants to take your business away from your current bank , and receive the substantial amount of interest involved over the remaining life of the loan . If you 've ever seen a mortgage summary statement , the interest paid over the life of a 30-year loan can easily equal the principal , and often it 's more like twice or three times the original amount borrowed . That 's attractive to rival banks . It 's in your current bank 's best interest to try to keep your business if they know you are shopping for a re-fi , even if that means offering you better terms on your existing loan . Often , the bank is itself " on the hook " to its own investors for the money they lent you , and if you pay off early without any penalty , they no longer have your interest payments to cover their own , and they usually ca n't pay off early ( bonds , which are shares of corporate debt , do n't really work that way ) . The better option is to keep those scheduled payments coming to them , even if they lose a little off the top . Often if a homeowner is working with their current bank for a lower payment , no new loan is created , but the terms of the current loan are renegotiated ; this is called a " loan modification " ( especially when the Government is requiring the bank to sit down at the bargaining table ) , or in some cases a " streamlining " ( if the bank and borrower are meeting in more amicable circumstances without the Government forcing either one to be there ) . Historically , the idea of giving a homeowner a break on their contractual obligations would be comical to the bank . In recent times , though , the threat of foreclosure ( the bank 's primary weapon ) does n't have the same teeth it used to ; someone facing 30 years of budget-busting payments , on a house that will never again be worth what he paid for it , would look at foreclosure and even bankruptcy as the better option , as it 's theoretically all over and done with in only 7-10 years . With the Government having a vested interest in keeping people in their homes , making whatever payments they can , to keep some measure of confidence in the entire financial system , loan modifications have become much more common , and the banks are usually amicable as they 've found very quickly that they 're not getting anywhere near the purchase price for these " toxic assets " . Sometimes , a re-fi actually results in a higher APR , but it 's still a better deal for the homeowner because the loan does n't have other associated costs lumped in , such as mortgage insurance ( money the guarantor wants in return for underwriting the loan , which is in turn required by the FDIC to protect the bank in case you default ) . The homeowner pays less , the bank gets more , everyone 's happy ( including the guarantor ; they do n't really want to be underwriting a loan that requires PMI in the first place as it 's a significant risk ) . The U.S. Government is spending a lot of money and putting a lot of pressure on FDIC-insured institutions ( including virtually all mortgage lenders ) to cut the average Joe a break . Banks get tax breaks when they do loan modifications . The Fed 's buying at-risk bond packages backed by distressed mortgages , and where the homeowner has n't walked away completely they 're negot
If you are planning this as a tax avoidance scheme , well it is not . The gains will be taxable in your hands and not in the Banks hands . Banks simply do n't cash out the stock at the same price , there will be quite a bit of both Lawyers and others ... so in the end you will end up paying more . The link indicates that one would pay back the loan via one 's own earnings . So if you have a stock worth USD 100 , you can pledge this to a Bank and get a max loan of USD 50 [ there are regulations that govern the max you can get against 100 ] . You want to buy something worth USD 50 . Option1 : Sell half the stock , get USD 50 , pay the captial gains tax on USD 50 . Option2 : Pledge the USD 100 stock to bank , get a loan of USD 50 . As you have not sold anything , there is no tax . Over a period pay the USD 50 loan via your own earnings . A high valued customer may be able to get away with a very low rate of intrest and very long repayment period . The tax implication to your legal hier would be from the time the stock come to his/her hands to the time she sold . So if the price increase to 150 by the time Mark dies , and its sold at 160 later , the gain is only of USD 10 . So rather than paying 30 % or whatever the applicable tax rate , it would be wise to pay an interest of few percentages .
Sometimes 403b 's contain annuities or other insurance related instruments . I know that in many New York schools the local teacher unions administer the 403b plan , and sometimes choose proprietary investments like variable annuities or other insurance products . In New York the Attorney General sued and settled with the state teacher 's union for their endorsement of a high cost ING 403b plan -- I believe the maintenance fees were in excess of 3 % / year ! In a tax deferred plan like a 401k , 403b or 457 plan , the low risk " insurance fund " is generally a GIC " Guaranteed Investment Contract " . A GIC ( aka " Stable Value Fund " ) is sort of cross between a CD and a Money Market fund . It 's used by insurance companies to raise short term capital . GICs usually yield a premium versus a money market and are a safe investment . If your wife is in a 403b with annuities or other life-insurance tie ins other than GICs , make sure that you understand the fee structure and ask lots of questions .
A reason to get an accountant is to avoid penalties for possible mistakes . That is , if you make a mistake , the IRS can impose penalties on you for negligence . If the professional makes the SAME mistake , the burden of proof for " negligence " shifts to the IRS , which probably means that you 'll pay more taxes and interest , but NO penalties ; hiring an accountant is prima facie evidence of NOT being negligent . I would get an accountant since this the first time for you in the present situation , when mistakes are most likely . If you feel that s/he did the same for you that you would have done for yourself , then you might go back to doing your own taxes in later years .
I believe the premiums are deductible , but the computation of the deduction is not necessarily simple . <URL> and <URL> discuss a problem that arose because , for self-employed individuals , the premium subsidy was dependent on the adjusted gross income , but ( due to the self-employed premium deduction ) , the adjusted gross income was circularly dependent on the premium subsidy . The IRS issued a <URL> on how to resolve this dependency , providing two algorithms for computing the deduction . The fact that the IRS issued a ruling to tell self-employed people how to deduct their ACA premium costs means those costs must be deductible . It is possible that TurboTax incorporates this ruling , and that 's why it 's telling you not to include ACA premiums at that particular point . Have you looked through the rest of TurboTax 's questions to see if it wants you to enter the ACA premiums somewhere else ?
I strongly recommend that you talk to an accountant right away because you could save some money by making a tax payment by January 15 , 2014 . You will receive Forms 1099-MISC from the various entities with whom you are doing business as a contractor detailing how much money they paid you . A copy will go to the IRS also . You file a Schedule C with your Form 1040 in which you detail how much you received on the 1099-MISC forms as well as any other income that your contracting business received ( e.g. amounts less than $ 600 for which a 1099-MISc does not need to be issued , or tips , say , if you are a taxi-driver running your own cab ) , and you can deduct various expenses that you incurred in generating this income , including tools , books , ( or gasoline ! ) etc that you bought for doing the job . You will need to file a Schedule SE that will compute how much you owe in Social Security and Medicare taxes on the net income on Schedule C . You will pay at twice the rate that employees pay because you get to pay not only the employee 's share but also the employer 's share . At least , you will not have to pay income tax on the employer 's share . Your net income on Schedule C will transfer onto Form 1040 where you will compute how much income tax you owe , and then add on the Social Security tax etc to compute a final amount of tax to be paid . You will have to pay a penalty for not making tax payments every quarter during 2013 , plus interest on the tax paid late . Send the IRS a check for the total . If you talk to an accountant right away , he/she will likely be able to come up with a rough estimate of what you might owe , and sending in that amount by January 15 will save some money . The accountant can also help you set up for the 2014 tax year during which you could make quarterly payments of estimated tax for 2014 and avoid the penalties and interest referred to above .
I found the answer . I had a small misconception about capital gains taxes . It so happens that your ordinary income tax bracket is calculated by adding your capital gains to your ordinary income . So in the example I gave in the question , those hundreds of thousands of dollars of capital gains income would put you in a high tax bracket , so you would have to pay capital gains taxes based off that tax bracket ( probably 20 % for long term and 39 % for short term in the worst case scenario ) .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
Yes . I have personally signed such contracts ( fixed budget software development ) and lost money every single time . And yes , it is quite possible for you to get paid under minimum wage if you take too long . <URL> is the primary culprit for these kinds of contracts , so make sure you put together iron-clad explanations of what is and is not covered by the contract ( and pad the asking price for good measure ) .
You do n't generally pay capital gains taxes until you sell the stock . If you bought it in 2013 and the price goes up in 2014 but you just hold on to the stock , you wo n't have to pay any taxes on it . If you then sold it in 2015 for a profit , you 'd have to pay capital gains taxes on the profit . Note that this excludes dividends . Dividends may complicate the matter somewhat . I 'm also assuming you are in the U.S. or Canada , or a country like one of those two . It 's possible some other country does taxes differently , though it 'd surprise me .
When buying a house or piece of property , does the Title Company work for the buyer , the seller , or are they neutral , just playing the part of administering the deal ? It depends on what you mean by title company . In one case they are the company handling the closing . Some call this a settlement company , but many have the word Title in the name . In my real estate transactions the buyer has paid for the service a part of the settlement costs . Who is picked is a negotiation between buyer and seller . On a day I sold one house and bought another having them back-to-back in the same office was the most convenient . The Title company agent may be a lawyer , but at least in Virginia they do n't have to be . But even if they are a lawyer they do n't represent either party . They are making sure all the proper forms and money is ending up in the correct place at the correct times . They will facilitate the transaction , but they do n't protect either side from a bad deal . The other use of the term Title company may mean Title Insurance Company . They are a company that insure the lender , in case there is a problem with the ownership of the property . The lender will make you buy the Title insurance policy . They will dictate who to use , and the term of the policy . The buyer of the property can also buy an optional policy to protect themselves if the title is bad . The lender does n't require you to purchase this policy . Title policies protect the lender and you when the ownership is not clear . The ex-spouse may claim ownership , the homeowners association may claim back dues owed , a construction company may claim that they were never paid . In some cases the issue could have occurred years before your transaction , and were missed during the title search . Without a policy the ownership could revert to the previous party . The lender wants their policy to make sure they do n't lose their money , you want a policy to make sure you do n't lose the equity and the roof over your head .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
FICA No . FUTA Generally , FUTA is limited to a very low amount compared to the overall salary ( first $ 7K a year ) SDI Depends on the state law , generally is also limited to a certain maximum amount . SUI Same as SDI - depends on the state law . ETT If you 're referring to the California Employment Training tax - it is limited to the first $ 7K of the annual pay , same as FUTA . Non-taxable fringe benefits are not considered wages .
Is the employer responsible for reviewing medical expenses ? No , the employer is not responsible for reviewing medical expenses . It is the job of the individual account holder to determine if their account funds are being properly used . The individual would also be responsible for providing supporting evidence if faced with an IRS audit . Are employer-made HSA contributions deductible health care expenses ? The tax treatment depends on how the business is incorporated . For sole proprietors , partnerships , and S-corporations , contributions to a partner 's HSA will be treated as a distribution to the partner and included in the partner 's income and may be deductible by the partner but not by the business - <URL> For larger corporations , employer contributions are treated as employer provided coverage for medical expenses under an accident or health plan .
For instance , they are reporting my income to California even though I am not a U.S. resident . But you are . The US does n't have a notion of physical presence , you 're resident by mere citizenship . In case you did n't know that before - US citizens and residents ( those who are not citizens , but pass the physical presence/green card test ) are taxed on their worldwide income . Where you are might matter for various tax treaties , but that only if you 're not a citizen of that country as well . You 're resident of California if that was the last State of residency before you left the US , and California taxes worldwide income as well . However , there are certain provisions that may allow you to become CA ' non-resident ' , check it out with a professional ( CPA/EA familiar with the CA FTB residency rules ) . In that case you 'll only pay taxes on CA sourced income ( your salary ) , but not other income ( interest in the foreign bank ) . Now they are asking for an I-9 . Every US employer must . How do I straighten this situation out ? Seems be heading for trouble . If by trouble you mean paying your taxes , then there 's nothing to straighten out . But do consult with a US-licensed CPA/EA who provides services in the country you 're located at ( US embassies some times provide listings of those , if not - there 's always Google ) . There might be some additional issues you 're unaware of that might affect you ( FBAR , for example , various exclusions and deductions , additional reporting requirements ... ) . Chris mentioned dual taxation - that is a very real and valid concern . Even though you 're taxed by the US on your US-sourced salary , being a resident in another country subjects you to the tax laws of that country . They might want to tax you on that money as well , and you may have to pay taxes twice if there 's no protection in a tax treaty against that . Note about @Paul 's answer : your personal tax return may indeed include certain forms that will reduce your tax in the US , either through the foreign income exclusion ( form 2555 , an audit red flag ) , foreign tax credit ( form 1116 ) or a combination of both . But your question was about the employer . To the employer - you 're a California resident , and the employer will treat you as such . What you personally do with your 1040 is not their problem or concern , its yours . I strongly suggest you to get a professional advice on that ( and if you do n't want to pay the CPA and instead learn it yourself - that 's fine , but when the audit time comes it will cost you much more to hire representation anew instead of having the CPA/EA who advised you ahead of time defend his advice ) .
For a person to totally skip the gift tax provision , the money must be paid directly from the giver to the school . For example , if the grandparents want to pay for college they can send a tuition payment directly to the school . Even if the annual tuition is $ 30,000 . Normally , a person can give $ 14,000 to another person without having to reduce their lifetime exemption for estate tax . Let us say that tuition is $ 30,000 per year , room and board $ 15,000 per year , and books $ 1,000 per year : for a total of $ 46,000 per year . If they give all the money to the child , they will have to reduce their lifetime exemption by ( 46K - 14K ( Grandparent 1 ) -14 K ( grandparent 2 ) ) or $ 18,000 for that year . If they send the tuition payment of 30K directly to the school , the remaining 16K can be covered by splitting the gift to the student between the two grandparents . Now to your situation . The provision you quoted does n't apply . Sending the payment to the bank is n't the same as sending it to the school . The quoted section is to allow a person to fund another persons education without having the money be commingled with all the other money the student has . But you can send 14K to each parent , and they can use it to pay off the loan without you having to reduce your lifetime exemption . The good news is that as soon as January rolls around you can send another $ 14K to each parent . That mean you can send a total of $ 56,000 to them in the next 6 months . You can double the numbers if you are married and your spouse also send $ 14K to each of your parents every year . Unfortunately , the payments are not a source of deduction for you . They are a gift to a family member , they are n't a donation to a charity .
end question
start question
Mathematics behind deciding to do a lump sum mortgage payment vs. RRSP contribution ?
To answer this question , you should ask these questions : - How much do you expect your money will grow in your RRSP ? ( you can use any Compound Online Calculator for this , I use <URL> ) - How much will your lump sum payment save you in interest ? ( I looked at this one : <URL> ) Then you can decide what 's better in your situation . From a quick calculation using the websites above , the lump sum option will save you almost $ 3k in interest over 25 years , while investing these $ 10k will grow to $ 33k over the same time period ( considering a return of 5 % ) . Since your mortgage interest rate is relatively low compared to a decent investment ( 5 % ) , your best return is to invest . Note , however , that we are talking only numbers here . If you think you will have a little piece of mind making the lump sum payment , go ahead and forget about the numbers . It 's better to be able to sleep at night than be mathematically correct , sometimes . Hope it helps !
Yes , the extra matching contribution your employer puts into your group RRSP plan is considered employment income and so yes it would be included in the income reported on your T4 . However , you should also receive from your RRSP plan administrator a contribution receipt , and the amount on that receipt should include both your contributions and the $ 500 . Consequently , you should be able to deduct that $ 500 from your income when you file your income tax return . The net effect is that your employer 's matching contribution goes into your RRSP without any present tax impact . You 'll pay tax on the $ 500 later ( or whatever amount it grows/shrinks to ) when you eventually withdraw the money , presumably in retirement . Note that your payroll income tax withholding amount may have already been adjusted ( in your favor ) to assume that you 'll take the corresponding deduction for your payroll RRSP contributions . This means that if you do n't get use your RRSP contribution receipt to claim the deduction on your income tax return , then you could end up with a balance owing .
You may not need all of these , but if you have them , you should have everything the mortgage people will ever ask for . Recent bank statements from all of your banks ( including brokerage accounts ) The last two years of W2 's A copy of your driver 's license A copy of your social security card The last two years of tax returns Your last two paystubs A copy of the signed sales contract A copy of the cancelled check you provided for down payment . If you own more than 25 % of a business , the last two years of tax returns for the business
I find it strange that they would actually recommend switching to a SD RSP . Most of the Big 5 banks would be happy to have you blindly invested in their high-fee mutual funds without even making you aware that the self-directed option exists . In my view , there are a few very important things to consider : Would you like your investments to be self-directed ? Would you be able to decide what to invest your money in if you had all the choice that 's offered through a SD RSP ? Would your financial advisor at the bank still be involved ? Only consider answering the question of when you should start looking into switching to one if you have already decided that you would like to switch to one . If you would like to have a SD RSP , it might make sense once your invested amount can justify any added commissions and fees you may incur with your new investments . If it 's at a Big 5 bank ( i.e. TD or RBC ) you 're looking at $ 30/trade for stocks and ETFs , and maybe a fee for third-party mutual funds . Are you well-versed with all the products that you can invest in using a self-directed account ? Although I would generally recommend a SD RSP , or even a self-directed TFSA or non-registered account , it would behoove an investor to really be committed to knowing what they 're doing . Without presuming too much about the OP , I would recommend anyone reading this answer to start at a great <URL> . What are all the fees associated with the SD RSP ? Many of the Big 5 banks and other companies charge exorbitant fees . Commission fees notwithstanding , the two major fees that I would be careful about are the annual administration fees and transfer out fees . RBC Direct Investing , for example , <URL> $ 75/yr for RSPs that are less than $ 25000 in value . They also charge an exorbitant $ 135 transfer out fee . Of course , you 'd need to pay that if you decide to switch brokerages since you ca n't just withdraw from bank A and redeposit at bank B without triggering tax consequences . If you really would like a self-directed account , must you stick with your current bank ? Having said all this , I think that there are other brokerages out there that should be evaluated apart from the Big 5 banks should you choose to go this route , particularly if one has less than $ 25000 invested . A good starting point is at a <URL> , which includes a table of many Canadian discount brokerages . The irony would be staggering if you inform your financial advisor at your bank that you have decided to take their advice and open a SD RSP , but somewhere else . Best of success with your RRSP , whatever you decide to do . If you would like me to elaborate further on any of these points , please post a comment and I 'll do what I can .
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
In my experience ( and I 'm a programmer , not an accountant ) it comes down to this : LLC gives you the liability protection of a Corporation without the hassle of keeping minutes of meetings and filing 2 sets of taxes . Sole Proprietor is cheap &amp; easy , but does not give you any liability protection If you get paid ' as a person ' , the employer is expected to use a W2 if they pay you more than , I think , $ 600 By liability protection , I mean that if you should screw something up ( or the client believes you broke something ) , who 's responsible ? With an LLC or Corporation it 's typically the company that 's responsible , so they could sue the company for all its assets , but could n't take your house . However , as a Sole Proprietor , you 're personal assets are not protected . There are exceptions when your LLC or Corp might make you liable personally , for example if you have conducted them such that there is a blurred line between personality and company ( for instance I think if you do n't have a separate account ) LLCs are also state specific , so the rules ( and costs ) vary state to state .
<URL> will let you calculate the savings from making a prepayment right away . Run it twice : once with a smaller initial balance , and once with the high balance and the prepayment . If you add the extra $ 10k to your down payment , your monthly payment will be lower . The higher monthly payment you will have with the $ 10k in your first payment means that you 'll be paying more principal every month , right from the beginning . Using the calculator above with a $ 200k mortgage at 5 % fixed for 30y : if you use the $ 10k as a prepayment , you 'll save about $ 22k in interest over the life of the loan , which will be shortened by 38 months . Bottom line : do n't put it into the down payment . But also see <URL> for the trade-off here . That 's assuming a US mortgage , which is different from Canada . I ran the same numbers using <URL> and came up roughly the same amount . ( I find the first calculator above much easier to use , if you are n't worried about losing a little precision in the numbers . )
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Setting aside for the moment the very relevant issue of whether you need the full amount quickly , I 'll just tackle comparing which option gives you to maximum amount of money ( in terms of real dollars ) . The trick is , unless you think inflation will suddenly reverse itself or stop entirely ( not likely ) , $ 50K today is worth a LOT more than $ 50K in 20 years . If you do n't believe me , consider that just 30 years ago the average price for a mid-level new car was around $ 3k . When you grandfather says he got a burger for a nickel , he is n't talking about 2010 dollars . So , how do you account for this ? Well , the way financial people and project managers do it to estimate how much to pay today for $ 1 at some point in the future is through a net present value ( NPV ) calculation . You can find a <URL> . In your question , you gave some numbers for the payout , but not the lump sum prize amount . Going solely on what you have provided , I calculate that you should take the lump sum if it is greater than $ 766,189.96 which is the net present value of 20 years of $ 50K Payments assuming 3 % annual inflation , which is fairly a fairly reasonable number given history . However , if you think the out-of-control Gov ' t spending is going to send inflation through the roof ( possible , but not a given ) , then you almost certainly would want the lump sum . I suppose in that scenario you might want the lump sum anyway because if the Govt starts filching on their obligations , doing it to a small number of lottery winners might be politically more popular than cutting other programs that affect a large number of voters .
Sounds like you need a cash account . Suggest you do as follows : Add an account to represent cash on hand -- let 's call it " Cash " . Record a deposit of the full $ 750 to " Cash " . Record the payment of the vendor 's invoice from " Cash " . Record the deposit/transfer from " Cash " to your checking account . This better models what actually happened in real life , rather than trying to adapt things into a system that lacks a cash account .
As a new graduate , aside from the fact that you seem to have the extra $ 193/mo to pay more towards your loan , we do n't know anything else . I wrote a lengthy article on this in response to a friend who had a loan , but was also pondering a home purchase in the future . <URL> discusses the math behind one 's ability to put a downpayment on a house vs having that monthly cash to pay towards the mortgage . In your case , the question is whether , in 5 years , the $ 8500 would be best spent as a home down payment or to pay off the 6.8 % loan . If you specifically had plans toward home ownership , the timing of that plan would affect my answer here , as I discuss in the article . The right answer to your question can only come by knowing far more of your personal situation . Does your employer offer a matched 401 ( k ) ( or other matched retirement account if you are not in the US ) , and are you depositing the full amount to capture that match ? It makes little sense to set aside funds to pay off a 6.8 % loan if you are leaving a 50 or 100 % match on the table . Do you have any other high interest debt ? 18 % card takes priority over this loan . What is the nature of your current savings and rate of savings ? An emergency fund or funds that would take care of unexpected expenses , including bridging the gap during a time of unemployment is an important first step for the new grad . Start by hitting the first $ 1000 , $ 2000 , etc. . But ultimately , you want X months worth of expenses to have a true safety net . Meanwhile , the plan comes at a cost . Your plan will get rid of the loan in about 5 years , but if you simply double up the payments , advising the servicing company to apply the extra to principal , it would drop to just a couple month over over 4 . As you read more about personal finance , you 'll find a lot of different views . Some people are fixated on having zero debt , others will focus on liquidity . In the end , you need to understand each approach and decide what 's right for you .
You can choose to pay your mortgage instead of another bill , or vice versa . Your net will change from month to month while your gross is relatively static . I can make a bunch of promises to my load officer about my expenses , but it is very difficult to verify . Moreover , it is pretty hard to give your net income and plan for emergencies . So for the sake of reliability , verifiability , and general ease a lender will look at your gross . YOU should definitely look at your net when deciding if you can afford a loan .
Generally incorrect . Some of your mortgage payment is interest , and some is repayment of principal . When it comes to deducting your rental property 's expenses against its income , you generally are n't permitted to deduct the repayment of loan principal . So , no , $ 1600 rent and $ 1600 mortgage payment ( ignoring all else ) is not break-even -- rather , you are profiting to the extent that your rental property 's mortgage principal is being reduced . That profit is taxable income , even if your cash flow has n't benefited . Otherwise , you could " break even " this way in perpetuity and at the end of the mortgage have a property paid for fully in tax-free dollars ! Nope . ( I said " generally " at top because the possibility of an interest-only loan does make the entire payment interest , but I mention this merely for completeness and not because it is likely to apply . )
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
From the IRS instructions for <URL> : Penalty for Not Filing If you are required to file Form 8606 to report a nondeductible contribution to a traditional IRA for 2010 , but do not do so , you must pay a $ 50 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause . Overstatement Penalty If you overstate your nondeductible contributions , you must pay a $ 100 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause .
The term self-directed generally refers to RRSP accounts where the account holder has not only the ability to determine a basic investment asset mix ( such as can be accomplished even with a limited selection of mutual funds ) but , more specifically , the self-directed account holder has a much wider choice of financial instruments beyond mutual funds , GICs , and/or cash savings . A self-directed RRSP generally permits the account holder to also invest or trade directly in financial instruments such as : bonds ( including governments and corporates ) , public company stocks/shares/unit trusts listed on a stock exchange , exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) , purchasing call and put options , writing covered call options , ... or even holding a mortgage on a property . Those kinds of instruments are not typically available in a non-self-directed mutual fund or bank RRSP . Typical mutual fund or bank RRSPs offer you only their choice of products -- often with higher fees attached . Related resources : <URL> <URL>
You 'll want to roll the 401k over to a specifically designated rollover IRA . Rollover IRAs differ from an ordinary IRA account because they have NO contribution limit per year . Also Rolling over a 401k to a Roth IRA has consequences . There wo n't be a penalty but you will have to pay taxes on the amount being rolled over . The choice of Roth or Traditional IRA depends on your current tax situation as well as your expected taxes at retirement . Typically if you are in a low tax bracket and expect to be in a higher tax bracket at retirement a Roth IRA is suggested as withdrawals are tax free . With a rollover conversion you will have to evaluate whether paying taxes now outweighs the potential benefits of tax free withdrawals when you retire .
To answer this question , you should ask these questions : - How much do you expect your money will grow in your RRSP ? ( you can use any Compound Online Calculator for this , I use <URL> ) - How much will your lump sum payment save you in interest ? ( I looked at this one : <URL> ) Then you can decide what 's better in your situation . From a quick calculation using the websites above , the lump sum option will save you almost $ 3k in interest over 25 years , while investing these $ 10k will grow to $ 33k over the same time period ( considering a return of 5 % ) . Since your mortgage interest rate is relatively low compared to a decent investment ( 5 % ) , your best return is to invest . Note , however , that we are talking only numbers here . If you think you will have a little piece of mind making the lump sum payment , go ahead and forget about the numbers . It 's better to be able to sleep at night than be mathematically correct , sometimes . Hope it helps !
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
end question
