start question
What investment options should I consider for my emergency fund ?
While I do n't disagree with the other answers as far as CD laddering goes ( at least in principle ) , three months CDs are currently getting much lower rates than money market accounts , at least according to <URL> . A savings account is also more liquid than CDs . Bonds are another option , and they can generally be liquidated quickly on the secondary market . However , they can go down in value if interest rates rise ( actually this is true of CDs as well -- there is a secondary market , though I believe only for brokerage CDs ? ) . Bottom line , A high yield savings account is likely your best best . As others noted , you should think of your emergency fund as savings , not investment .
You did n't mention how much is the interest rate of your debts . It is a very simple rule . % profit > % loss If you think you can make more money by investing ( the best way you can ) in spite of having debts then go ahead and invest . % profit less than % loss Else , if you donno what you 're doing and ca n't make sure you earn more than what you 're paying off for interest then may be you should focus on clearing up the debts first . You can read more about similar topic discussion <URL> Now , that you 've presented the interest rate of your loans i.e. 11 % which is your average , then I suggest you to clear up the high interest rate loans first i.e. which are above 11 % because it is very difficult to make an investment and get returns more than 11 % of what you invest . What ever be it , now that you wo n't be having big events in the coming 5 years , I suggest you to clear up all your loans and stay debt free i.e. tr to become stable and tension free . You know , because you ca n't run away anywhere with all those loans up on your shoulders , you HAVE to clear them today or tomorrow . So , now that you 're free ( in the next 5 yrs ) and burden less , so why not clear them up today ?
As Michael Pryor answered , a bond fund is a mutual fund that invests in bonds . I 'd also consider an ETF based on bonds to be a bond fund , but I 'm not sure that all investors would consider these as " bond funds " . Not all bond funds are the same -- just like stock funds . You can classify bond funds based on the issuer of the bonds : Government bond funds ( as described in the U.S. ) invest primarily in bonds issued by the U.S. Federal Government . These may be tax advantaged . Municipal bond funds ( aka " Munis " ) invest primarily in bonds issued by municipalities ( cities , counties ? ) . These may be tax advantaged . Corporate bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations . There are different " grades " of corporate bonds , based on the <URL> applied to the companies by ratings agencies like Moody 's or Fitch . An " AAA " fund would invest primarily in bonds issued by highly rated companies . High yield bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations with low ratings . ( These bonds are also called " junk bonds " . ) These bonds typically have a higher yield ( i.e. they pay a higher interest rate ) , but they also have a higher risk of default ( i.e. the issuer goes bankrupt and does n't pay back the principal ) . You may also find bond funds based on debt issued by foreign governments , I 'm not familiar with these . " Blended " funds are very common -- these would invest in two or more of the categories above . You can also classify funds based on the time to maturity : Short term bonds will mature in less than a year . You might also find " ultra short " or other descriptions . All else equal , shorter times to maturity mean a higher likelihood of repayment and less interest rate risk . Medium term bonds will mature in more time . There 's a correspondingly higher risk of default and adverse affects from interest rate changes . Long term bonds will mature in ten or more years . These are the most exposed to interest rate fluctuations . Except for funds that focus on a certain maturity , most funds will spread the maturities out to spread the risk out . In general , bond funds have lower risk and lower expected return than stock funds . Sometimes bond funds have price movements that are not tightly correlated to the price movements in the equity markets . This can make them a decent hedge against declines in your equity investments . See Michal Pryor 's answer for some info on how you can get tax free treatment for your bond fund investments .
Money you need in less than 5 years should be saved not invested . The only place I would be comfortable the money would be a money market account or Certificate of Deposit ( CD ) . I usually go for the money market account because they pay at or close to CD rates and there are no restrictions on getting to the money . However in this case I might choose a CD to keep me from being tempted to borrow some of it for something else . But even after typing that I still think I would put it in a money market , because if interest rates rise they rise in the money market but not the CD , and I just do n't think interest can go much lower .
All data for a single adult in tax year 2010 . Roth IRA Full contribution allowed for AGI under $ 105K Partial contribution allowed for AGI between $ 105K and $ 120K No contribution allowed for AGI over $ 120K 401K IRS allows up to $ 16,500 but varies based on employer and plan details . Roth 401k IRS allows up to $ 16,500 , but varies based on employer and plan details . Traditional IRA and your employer offers a 401k Phased out at $ 66,000 . Traditional IRA and your employer does NOT offer a 401k No income/AGI limit . Your full IRA contribution ( up to $ 5K ) can be made and deducted from your taxes similar to a 401k . So , here are your options . If you have a 401k at work , you could max that out . If you make close to $ 120K , you could reduce your AGI enough to contribute to a Roth IRA . If you do not have a 401k at work , you could contribute to a Traditional IRA and deduct the $ 5K from your AGI similar to how a 401k works . Other than that , I think you are looking at investing outside of a retirement plan which means more flexibility , but no tax advantage .
If your emergency fund is used strictly in the event of a job loss , you may want to factor in your unemployment benefits . But note ! You will not necessarily receive unemployment benefits . In many countries , you are not eligible if you are fired . Additionally , I 've seen people laid off but denied benefits until they spent several months fighting the decision . So , it 's wisest not to count on unemployment benefits . Even if you do , note that they often take a while to kick in . Six to eight weeks in Canada , for example . It is also a good idea to consider what else could cause you to tap into your emergency fund . A death of a spouse or a parent may leave you with $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 in funeral expenses that you have to pay within two weeks , months before any life insurance would kick in . If you own a house , your furnace or hot water tank may fail and need immediate replacement . Generally , you 'd cover these from an emergency fund , though your specific case may be different . There 's obviously an opportunity cost to keeping too much in cash or cash-like investments in your emergency fund , so you 'll want to take that in to consideration as well . My personal opinion is that you should have at least 6 months of living expenses saved up , not counting on any unemployment benefits . You should also have enough to cover the other emergencies such as the ones I raised , though sometimes you can borrow from family for that sort of thing . Beyond 6 months , I 'm willing to factor in benefits , less-liquid investments , etc. .
Let 's say that you want to invest in the stock market . Choosing and investing in only one stock is risky . You can lower your risk by diversifying , or investing in lots of different stocks . However , you have some problems with this : When you buy stocks directly , you have to buy whole shares , and you do n't have enough money to buy even one whole share of all the stocks you want to invest in . You are n't even sure which stocks you should buy . A mutual fund solves both of these problems . You get together with other investors and pool your money together to buy a group of stocks . That way , your investment is diversified in lots of different stocks without having to have enough money to buy whole shares of each one . And the mutual fund has a manager that chooses which stocks the fund will invest in , so you do n't have to pick . There are lots of mutual funds to choose from , with as many different objectives as you can imagine . Some invest in large companies , others small ; some invest in a certain sector of companies ( utilities or health care , for example ) , some invest in stocks that pay a dividend , others are focused on growth . Some funds do n't invest in stocks at all ; they might invest in bonds , real estate , or precious metals . Some funds are actively managed , where the manager actively buys and sells different stocks in the fund continuously ( and takes a fee for his services ) , and others simply invest in a list of stocks and rarely buy or sell ( these are called index funds ) . To answer your question , yes , the <URL> is a mutual fund . It is an actively-managed stock mutual fund that attempts to invest in growing companies that do business in countries with rapidly developing economies .
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
4.7 is a pretty low rate , especially if you are deducting that from your taxes . If you reduce the number by your marginal tax rate to get the real cost of the money you end up with a number that is n't far off from inflation , and also represents a pretty low ' yield ' in terms of paying off the loan early . ( e.g. if your marginal tax rate is 28 % , then the net you are paying in interest after the tax deduction is 4.7 * .72 = 3.384 ) While I 'm all for paying off loans with higher rates ( since it 's in effect the same as making that much risk free on the money ) it does n't make a lot of sense when you are down at 3.4 unless there is a strong ' security factor ' ( which really makes a difference to some folks ) to be had that really helps you sleep at night . ( to be realistic , for some folks close to retirement , there can be a lot to be said for the security of not having to worry about house payments , although you do n't seem to be in that situation yet ) As others have said , first make sure you have enough liquid 'em ergency money ' in something like a money market account , or a ladder of short term CD 's If you are sure that the sprouts will be going to college , then there 's a lot to be said for kicking a decent amount into a 529 , Coverdell ESA ( Educational Savings Account ) , uniform gift to minors account , or some combination of those . I 'm not sure if any of those plans can be used for a kid that has not been born yet however . I 'd recommend <URL> as a good starting point to get more information on your various options . As with retirement savings , money put in earlier has a lot more ' power ' over the final balance due to compounding interest , so there 's a lot to be said for starting early , although depending on what it takes to qualify for the plans there could be such a thing as too early ;-) ) . There 's nothing wrong with Managed mutual funds as long as the fund objective and investing style is in alignment with your objectives and risk tolerance ; The fund is giving you a good return relative to the market as a whole ; You are not paying high fees or load charges ; You are not losing a lot to taxes . I would always look at the return after expenses when comparing to other options , and if the money is not in a tax deferred account , also look at what sort of tax burden you will be faced with . A fund that trades a lot will generate more short term gains which means more taxes than compared to a more passive fund . Anything lost to taxes is money lost to you so needs to come out of the total return when you calculate that . Sometimes such funds are better off as a choice inside an IRA or 401K , and you can instead use more tax efficient vehicles for money where you have to pay the taxes every year on the gains . The reason a lot of folks like index funds better is that : The majority of managed funds do n't manage to beat the indexes Lots of good no-load and low expense options abound , including in ETF form . The lack of short term trades means the tax burden is way lower , making them good for investments outside of a tax deferred accounts . Once you subtract management fees and money paid out for taxes , even fewer managed funds yeild the same net return on investment that a low cost index fund does . Given your described age , it 's not appropriate now , but in the long run as you get closer to retirement , you may want to start looking at building up some investments that are geared more towards generating income , such as bonds , or depending on taxes where you live , Municipal bonds . In any case , the more money you can set aside for retirement now , both inside and outside of tax deferred accounts , the sooner you will get to the point of the ' critical mass ' you need to retire , at that point you can work because you want to , not because you have to .
Following up on this , here is what I did . First , I called my benefits provider . They had documentation of my election over the phone , which then allowed them to retroactively fix the problem . Had they not had this documentation , I would have been out of luck . Second , the next step for " fixing " occurred when I received my W-2 for this position . This W-2 mistakenly showed the amount for my medical FSA in box-10 of my W-2 as the same dependent care FSA . This requires calling/emailing my benefits and payroll department to get an updated W-2 ...
The " $ 1000 is no money at all " people are amusing me . Way back in the mists of time , a very young me invested on the order of ~ $ 500 in a struggling electronics manufacturer I had a fondness for . An emotional investment , not much money , but enough that I could get a feel for what it was like owning stock in something . That stock 's symbol was AAPL . This is admittedly a rare outcome , but $ 1000 invested over the long term is n't not worth doing . If for no other reason then when the OP has " real " money , he 'll have X + $ 1000 invested rather than X , assuming 0 % return , which I doubt . It 's a small enough amount that there are special considerations , but it 's a solid opportunity for learning how the market works , and making a little money . Anyway , my advice to the OP is as follows : All of this assumes you have enough money to live on , and this $ 1000 is indeed " play money " . If you need this money for books , rent , etc. put it in a savings account . Putting $ 1000 into the market , and then needing to tap high interest credit card debt to make ends meet is losing money . Consider opening a Roth IRA . If you 've already got the money , you 've already been taxed on it , and as a non-working student , your tax rate is as low as its likely going to be . Consider how much risk you 're willing to shoulder . Are you alright with having $ 0 at the end of all this ? Take a look at index ETFs and mutual funds . While these do n't have a spectacular return , at least recently , the market as of Fall 2011 is unusually highly correlated , which means it 's unlikely that you 'll do much worse or staggeringly better unless you 're lucky . Pay special attention to commissions and expenses with these , as they can eat into your returns , which will admittedly be small . An $ 10 commission on a $ 10,000 investment is much less of a big deal than it is on a $ 1,000 investment . Some discount brokerages even have mutual funds that are themselves baskets of index funds ( instant diversification ) , and if you 're a client with them , these have low minimum investments and fairly small fees , which are properties you 're looking for . Which brings me to the last bit . Whatever you end up doing , hold it . Actively trading with as little money as you have will devour your returns with transaction fees .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
While I do n't disagree with the other answers as far as CD laddering goes ( at least in principle ) , three months CDs are currently getting much lower rates than money market accounts , at least according to <URL> . A savings account is also more liquid than CDs . Bonds are another option , and they can generally be liquidated quickly on the secondary market . However , they can go down in value if interest rates rise ( actually this is true of CDs as well -- there is a secondary market , though I believe only for brokerage CDs ? ) . Bottom line , A high yield savings account is likely your best best . As others noted , you should think of your emergency fund as savings , not investment .
Dollar cost averaging is a fancy name someone came up with to say " Invest all of the time " . I would not bother with spreading out purchases . If the market is too expensive right now ... so what ? The items you sell will bring top dollar . The fund you buy will cost top dollar . It all evens out . You could sell your assets and just sit on cash , but that would require knowing when the next market drop is coming . . which no one knows . Also , it never really is cash ; it goes into a money market fund which is not guaranteed . I would rather own companies ( VSTAX ) and collect the dividend .
Emergency funds are good to keep yourself out of debt , for whatever reason . Job loss is a big place where an emergency fund can help you out . It buys you time to find another job before hauling out the credit cards for your groceries , falling behind on your mortgage and car payments , etc. . But it can just as easily be used for major car repairs , serious medical issues , home repairs , etc. ... anything that needs to be done quickly , and is n't a discretionary item . The bigger your cash reserves , the better , especially now that the economy is bad .
I think you 've got competition on that list for where to put the money - I 'd work out which option is costing me the most currently or will cost me the most in the future and take care of it . I 'd be willing to bet that Eric is right , though , that it will need to be the roof . Not fixing it could cost you more in the long run than any of the other items on the list ( assuming your circumstances remain roughly the same ) . General comments/other considerations : Interest on education loan tends to be quite low , so not worth targeting Not enough to top up the 401K given everything else you have going on I 'd ignore the car payments , unless you 're getting nailed with a bad interest rate ; if that were the case , it might warrant a closer look . Any money that does n't get spent on the roof ( if any ) - I would put in a rainy day fund .
just pick a good bond and invest all your money there ( since they 're fairly low risk ) No . That is basically throwing away your money and why would you do that . And who told you they are low risk . That is a very wrong premise . What factors should I consider in picking a bond and how would they weigh against each other ? Quite a number of them to say , assuming these are n't government bonds ( US , UK etc ) How safe is the institution issuing the bond . Their income , business they are in , their past performance business wise and the bonds issued by them , if any . Check for the bond ratings issued by the rating agencies . Read the prospectus and check for any specific conditions i.e. bonds are callable , bonds can be retired under certain conditions , what happens if they default and what order will you be reimbursed ( senior debt take priority ) . Where are interest rates heading , which will decide the price you are paying for the bond . And also the yield you will derive from the bond . How do you intend to invest the income , coupon , you will derive from the bonds . What is your time horizon to invest in bonds and similarly the bond 's life . I have invested in stocks previously but realized that it is n't for me Bonds are much more difficult than equities . Stick to government bonds if you can , but they do n't generate much income , considering the low interest rates environment . Now that QE is over you might expect interest rates to rise , but you can only wait . Or go for bonds from stable companies i.e. GE , Walmart . And no I am not saying you buy their bonds in any imaginable way .
Have you looked at <URL> yet ? There are tax benefits with it and you can roll over the remaining funds from your first child 's account into your second child 's , etc. . Read <URL> to get yourself up to speed for this plan . <URL> is another plan you can look at . The Wikipedia article talks about the similarities and differences , so I wo n't repeat here .
There are entire books devoted to this topic ... :) I 'd suggest focusing on a % of income that you can set aside for each child and start doing that instead of looking at a specific dollar target . I would look at a 529 plan to get the state tax benefit for growth . Also , be careful to counter the " advice " given by admissions folks , who encourage high school kids to " choose the college that will make you happy " and expose them to as many pictures of lovely , leafy private campuses as possible . The lawns at the private school are nice , but state colleges offer a great education at a relative bargain . Try to teach your kids about money so they understand the downsides of the loans that schools throw at you . I went to a state school , had very supportive parents and worked throughout . I came out with $ 750 of debt ( on a 0 % credit card for a laptop replacement ) . I have a friend who went to a similar , private school who came from a similar background and who is now in a similar place career-wise . Except he has a $ 500/mo monthly tribute to Sallie Mae . My parents started working on me when I was about 12 , and it worked !
Not simply by applying for more cards , but rather by being approved for credit cards . In fact , too many declined credit applications can hurt your credit score . I 'm not certain of the details , but some activity is also necessary . Not using your lines of credit can be seen as a detrimental factor . I assume they are trying to guard against being gamed . So , having a bunch of unused lines of credit is not necessarily good . Finally , having too many open lines of credit ( for some definition of " too many " ) can also be a bad thing , though I 'm not sure if this effects your credit score or is simply used as a reason by some issuers to decline your application .
end question
start question
Credit Card Offer Wording ?
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
Most points cards will let you redeem the points for cash or a statement credit . Figure out how many points equals a $ 1 redemption . This will give you a base " points to dollars " conversation rate . ( It also tells you the effective cash back rate of your card . ) Now look at the merchandise you can buy with the points . Find a few things you are interested in . Find the retail value of that merchandise on Amazon.com . Use your points-to-dollars ratio to find the effective price of redeeming the item . See if it is " cheaper " to buy with points or to buy from Amazon . You can do a similar price comparison for non-merchandise items ( airline tickets , hotels , etc ) . Just compare it to the base points-to-dollars ratio . Look at the redemption rate of gift cards too . There are often deals where you can buy a $ 50 gift card for effectively $ 45 . If you ca n't find a good use for the points , then just redeem them for cash . You should also pay attention to the effective cash back rate . If it is consistently less than a regular cash back card , perhaps you should consider switching .
You should n't be charged interest , unless possibly because your purchases involve a currency conversion . I 've made normal purchases that happened to involve changes in currency . The prices were quoted in US$ to me . On the tail end , though , the currency change was treated as a cash advance , which accrues interest immediately .
You can not carry a balance on a charge card ; the total balance is due as the payment each period . I guess some government use charge cards . There is no interest to be paid on them , so it is cheaper , but the credit companies still make some money on transaction fees . <URL> <URL> <URL>
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
Couple years ago i asked Citibank to replace my bank/credit card with ATM Only card without any issues .
My understanding is this is considered a " rebate . " I view the cash reward as recovering part of the merchant fee charged for the use of my card . It 's not income because it 's my own money . Now , when I use the card for business items that I 'm reimbursed from my employer 100 % , in theory those rebates should be taxed , in practice , there 's no tracking . Note - I am in the US . My current card gives me 2 % back , up to $ 1500/yr . This goes into a 529 account ( A college savings account ) which as of mid-2015 passed $ 26,000 in value .
How you can pay your rent is really up to your landlord . They are , however , unlikely to take a credit card , for at least two reasons . Firstly they are unlikely to have the means to take electronic payment Second , and more importantly , merchants get charged a percentage of the transaction . These fees can be quite high to them for premium cards like travel and gold cards ; three , four or even five percent of the value of the transaction . This is sometimes why you see cash discounted pricing .
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
Is it possible to pay off my balance more than once in a payment period in order to increase the amount I can spend in a payment period ? Yes you can pay off the balance more than once even if its not due . This will get applied to outstanding and you will be able to spend again . If so , is there a reason not to do this ? There is no harm . However note that it generally takes 2-3 days for the credit to be applied to the card . Hence factor this in before you make new purchases . I just got a credit card to start rebuilding my credit . Spending close to you credit limit does not help much ; compared to spending less than 10 % of your credit limit . So the sooner you get your limit on card increased the better .
Check out ycharts.com , here is an example of GS <URL>
Yes , they did stop the practice in 2007 . See this article from the Seattle Times for reference : <URL>
You can have an american credit card with a foreign billing address . I had two credit cards ( USAA and Chase ) with billing addresses in the UK . I already had both cards while living in the US ( not sure about setting up cards with the original address out of the country ) and then just updated my billing information online . If you can , I would also recommend keeping a card with a US billing address , as mentioned previously , since quite a few websites wo n't allow you to enter a non-US address at all . This depends on having somebody ( parents ? friends ? ) with an address in the states . Also , you can use sites like amazon.com instead of amazon.co.uk to get better deals and / or send gifts home without having to do any currency conversion . Check for foreign transaction fees and try to find a card that has no ( or very small ) fees .
AutoPay vs. paying manually It does n't make a difference if the bill is paid by auto pay or you go in and manually make a payment . If you are concerned about checking the website a day late , use auto pay . If you want to make sure you check for unknown charges pay manually . But it has no impact on the credit score . Paying off balance every few days ( manually ) vs. paying off balance once a month after statement arrives ( manually ) . The only day that matters ( except paying late ) is the day your balance is reported , which generally is a day or two after the statement date . If you wait for it to arrive by mail you are probably paying it down after they have reported it . If you pay it right after the statement date you might get it to zero . Paying off ONLY statement balance ( manually ) vs. paying off all purchases including those that have n't hit a statement yet ( manually ) This is overkill . You are trying to make sure you always have a zero balance . Even in a month where you achieve perfect utilization the benefit will go away the next month . If one month you you are out of the perfect zone the few points you drop will bounce back the next month . There utilization rate is a snapshot , not an average or a trend . If you were applying for a mortgage , or a car loan in the next month or two ; then making sure your utilization rate gives you an above average boost makes sense . But if you are n't applying for credit you are just wasting energy . Of course if you have a balance you are paying down , then paying sooner than the due date can save you money .
<URL> has a largest variety of mutual fund offerings , mostly no-fee , and is a discount brokerage . <URL> offers no-fee and loaded funds . Since the question mentioned this , note that Morningstar selected Fidelity funds as three of their <URL> ( in a fixed-income category maybe ? I do n't recall ) . This was just announced a few days ago . Vanguard is good too , certainly for index funds . However , Schwab or Fidelity are better if you 're interested in funds with higher-risk profiles . Consider E * Trade , for mutual funds and ETF 's . There 's a little variation , but as of today , <URL> ! EDIT Merrill is your broker . I assume you have a fee-based account . If you pay fees , you should get the widest range of fund alternatives to pick from ! That is puzzling . I ca n't imagine why a full-service broker would have a smaller selection of funds than Schwab or Fidelity . A full-service broker should also be able to offer you specialty funds , e.g. those with higher risk , as you expressed an interest in , more easily .
end question
start question
Is it better to buy a house at the end or beginning of a year ?
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
No , inaction is not always the rational choice in your scenario . To give an extreme example as proof : Let 's say that you have $ 1,000 . The <URL> of inaction is $ 0 - you will end up with the same amount ( minus inflation , but we can ignore that for this exercise ) . If your only other option is an investment which has a 75 % chance of losing all of your money , and a 25 % chance of doubling your money , then your expected value is ( ( 75 % * - $ 1,000 ) + ( 25 % * $ 1,000 ) ) = - $ 500 . In that case your best option is obviously inaction . However , let 's say that you have a 75 % chance of losing all of your money , but a 25 % chance of making $ 1,000,000 on your investment . In that case , the expected value of investing is ( ( 75 % * - $ 1,000 ) + ( 25 % * $ 1,000,000 ) ) = $ 249,250 . This means that the rational thing is to make the investment . Basically , the 25 % chance of making $ 1M is worth the 75 % chance of losing everything .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
I am from Australia , so do n't know how relevant my answer will be for the US , but I 'll try anyway . If you are having your utilities ( electricity , gas and water usage ) included as a set fee as part of the rent , I would say that the landlord has taken the average cost for these utilities and added a buffer incase you and your house-mate use more than the average . They would probably then review the costs after a certain period to see if they need to incease them or not . If you think you are a low user of the utilities ( ie use water sparingly , turn off the lights when you leave a room , etc. ) then you may be better off paying for the utilities separetly . However , since you are sharing with someone else , and if you do n't know whether they are a high user or low user , then you may end up paying for some of their usage as well . These are the things you may wish to consider . In the end you will have to decide if you want to pay one single bill each week or month , or have all your costs separated so you know you are not over paying for something you may not be using . Some people feel that not knowing and making one single payment is easier and less stressful , while others may be concerned about not knowing and need to know all the amounts to put their minds at ease . You have to decide which type of person you are . Personally , I would be the type that wanted to know the exact amounts to pay , but as mentioned earlier , this is made harder by the fact that you will be sharing with someone else . To estimate the amount for each utility you will need to firstly estimate what your usage is for each utility and then multiply this by the rates charged by each utility company ( this can be found on one of the utility company 's previous bills ) . Maybe you can ask the Landlord that you wish to pay the utilities separately for the first couple of months and then decide if you wnated them included with the total rent after that . That way you can work out actual costs and decide which outcome is better for you . There is no harm in asking .
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
If you owe a lot of money ( more then $ 500 or $ 1000 ) you will get hit with penalties . You will also have to file every quarter the next year . That is very painful . There is a safe harbor if you make sure that you have withheld more money than your taxes from the previous year . The information you provided is not enough for me to give specific advice . But here is a hint : Right after you file this year , use turbo tax to determine what changes you can make to your withholding to minimize any excess withholding .
There are two levels to consider here : Small amounts ( To me , this means $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything is fine . If they do n't , it 's not going to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amounts - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them as a gift . I usually give them the money saying something like " If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too " . If you are n't prepared to say that , loaning them money is probably not a good plan . That said , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it is good for them . If they have problems managing their money , or holding down a job , and you give them money , they are just going to come back for more later . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member has hit a rough patch and you know they are the kind of person that will be on their feet again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .
From a financial point of view , getting a 2-3 year old car with full service history ( and obviously in good condition and well looked after ) and driving it until it falls apart makes the most sense . That way , you avoid the steepest part of the depreciation curve ( ie , when you drive it off the lot ) and you should end up with something that 'll last you for a decade or longer if you keep up the maintenance . Either car - if bought new or used - will go wrong at some point , especially if they 're not looked after properly . Regular maintenance is one of the most important , if not the most important factor in keeping a vehicle reliable .
You asked for simple , and I promise you this is ... it just looks a bit math-heavy to start with because we have to handle a couple of different scenarios . Bear with me :) I find the best way to deal with these kinds of questions is to put together a " Total cost " for each option , for a sensible amount of time , and see what the difference is . We 'll include the current cost for both options , plus the subsequent costs for 12 months : I find that more useful than a straight " which is more expensive right now " because it includes the potential costs of the next upgrade , and any changes to the plan . Let 's throw some numbers together for the next 12 months ( if your current plan is longer than 12 months , read the note at the bottom first ) First , write down the cost of these things m = number of months left on current contract a = monthly cost of current plan b = monthly cost of upgraded plan ( if you upgraded with the same company ) c = monthly cost of a new plan ( the plan you 'd choose if you did n't have to upgrade with the same company ** ) Pu = upgrade cost of current plan ( the up front fee , not the monthly ) Py = new phone cost ( assuming you were n't intending to upgrade but were going to buy a new phone ** ) Pe = how much the current phone ( if in working condition ) would sell for on eBay ** The above assume that you have two options if you take the repair option ( and only one option if you use the buy-out option ) . The two options we 're assuming here are that you can either : Upgrade the current plan with a new monthly ( b ) and initial cost ( Pu ) An entirely new plan with a different new monthly ( c ) and initial cost ( Py ) If you 'd choose the same new plan regardless of whether you take the $ 100 or $ 150 option , there 's no need to include both options : to simplify things you can just use the same numbers for both b/c and Pu/Py and the calculation below will still work . When you 've found and written down the above , just do the sums below to find your two total costs over 12 months . Nothing fancy , just plug the numbers above into the equation . eg if Pe ( eBay value of the phone ) is $ 80 , replace Pe with 80 . Do n't forget to do the parts in brackets first ! Option 1 : Repair the current phone , then sell it on eBay when you upgrade/switch plan later as normal 150 - Pe + ( m * a ) + ( ( 12 - m ) * c ) + Pu Explained : 150 you 'd pay now to replace the phone , minus the ebay cost ( minus because you get it back ) , plus the rest of the current plan , plus the new plan for the rest of the year , plus the cost of upgrading at the end of your plan * Note that if you just want to keep the current phone once it 's been replaced , and get a new plan , you can take both - Pe and + Pu out of this equation ! Option 2 Buy out your current contract and upgrade immediately 100 + ( 12 * b ) + Py Explained : 100 to buy out your contract , plus 12 months of the new contract , plus the cost of a new phone That 's your total cost for both options for the next year . Note : I 'm assuming that your plan ends within the next 12 months . If not , just replace 12 in the above calculations with another term ! You can also do this if you want to find out the price difference over a longer period ( noting that if you upgrade to the same plan regardless of choice , you 'll get the same answer for any period longer than your current contract )
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
Insurance on something that you could replace out of your own pocket is almost always not worth it . If you have the discipline to put $ 1,000 in a savings account , and only use that to replace the phone , you 'll be ahead , plus you 'll also get to pocket the interest .
From strictly a gross revenue point of view , the parking spot is going to yield a higher rate ( 5.4 % ) versus a 3 % savings account , assuming you have it rented all year . Your break-even point ( not considering other expenses ) is 7-8 months of rent per year . So , what are things to consider ? Here 's a few to start with . Does location give the parking spot a potential for appreciation of rent or value as economic conditions change ? What is demand like ? Will you be able to rent it consistently ? My neighbor rents a garage to college faculty on a semester basis , and it is often difficult to get tenants in the summertime . What are the carrying costs associated with the spot ? Insurance , property tax , business district fees , etc. . What are your liquidity requirements ? Conveying real property is more time consuming than liquidating savings . This relates to the location too : you can sell a spot in a business district or high-density neighborhood quickly . Does anything about the location limit downside risk ? e.g. stable generators of parking demand like a commuter train station , government office , large apartment , etc. . The parking spot is a nice investment in that you get a decent return , and the potential for appreciation . The savings account/CD will give you a fixed return with no risk . To support your decision , make sure you understand all of the costs and understand all of the downside risk . If you 're 50 and this is alot of money to you , be conservative . If you 're 25 and have a good job , you can afford to chase the yield .
In most cases of purchases the general advice is to save the money and then make the purchase . Paying cash for a car is recommended over paying credit for example . For a house , getting a mortgage is recommended . Says who ? These rules of thumb hide the actual equations behind them ; they should be understood as heuristics , not as the word of god . The Basics The basic idea is , if you pay for something upfront , you pay some fixed cost , call it X , where as with a loan you need to pay interest payments on X , say % I , as well as at least fixed payments P at timeframe T , resulting in some long term payment IX . Your Assumption To some , this obviously means upfront payments are better than interest payments , as by the time the loan is paid off , you will have paid more than X . This is a good rule of thumb ( like Newtonian 's equations ) at low X , high % I , and moderate T , because all of that serves to make the end result IX > X. Counter Examples Are there circumstances where the opposite is true ? Here 's a simple but contrived one : you do n't pay the full timeframe . Suppose you die , declare bankruptcy , move to another country , or any other event that reduces T in such a way that XI is less than X . This actually is a big concern for older debtors or those who contract terminal illnesses , as you ca n't squeeze those payments out of the dead . This is basically manipulating the whole concept . Let 's try a less contrived example : suppose you can get a return higher than % I. I can currently get a loan at around % 3 due to good credit , but index funds in the long run tend to pay % 4 - % 5 . Taking a loan and investing it may pay off , and would be better than waiting to have the money , even in some less than ideal markets . This is basically manipulating T to deal with IX . Even less contrived and very real world , suppose you know your cash flow will increase soon ; a promotion , an inheritance , a good market return . It may be better to take the loan now , enjoy whatever product you get until that cash flows in , then pay it all off at once ; the enjoyment of the product will make the slight additional interest worth it . This is n't so much manipulating any part of the equation , it 's just you have different goals than the loan . Home Loan Analysis For long term mortgages , X is high , usually higher than a few years pay ; it would be a large burden to save that money for most people . % I is also typically fairly low ; P is directly related to % I , and the bank ca n't afford to raise payments too much , or people will rent instead , meaning P needs to be affordable . This does not apply in very expensive areas , which is why cities are often mostly renters . T is also extremely long ; usually mortgages are for 15 or 30 years , though 10 year options are available . Even with these shorter terms , it 's basically the longest term loan a human will ever take . This long term means there is plenty of time for the market to have a fluctuation and raise the investments current price above the remainder of the loan and interest accrued , allowing you to sell at a profit . As well , consider the opportunity cost ; while saving money for a home , you still need a place to live . This additional cost is comparable to mortgage payments , meaning X has a hidden constant ; the cost of renting . Often X + R > IX , making taking a loan a better choice than saving up . Conclusion " The general advice " is a good heuristic for most common human payments ; we have relatively long life spans compared to most common payments , and the opportunity cost of not having most goods is relatively low . However , certain things have a high opportunity cost ; if you ca n't talk to HR , you ca n't apply for jobs ( phone ) , if you ca n't get to work , you ca n't eat ( car ) , and if you have no where to live , it 's hard to keep a job ( house ) . For things with high opportunity costs , the interest payments are more than worth it .
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
When there is a difference between the two ... no trading occurs . Let 's look at an example : Investor A , B , C , and D all buy/sell shares of company X. Investor A wants to sell 10 shares at $ 20 a share ( Ask price $ 20 x10 ) . Investor B wants to buy 15 shares at $ 10 a share ( Bid price $ 10 x15 ) . Since the bid price and ask price are different , no sale is made . Next Investor C comes along and wants to sell 5 shares at $ 14 ( Ask price $ 14 x5 ) . Still no sale . Investor D comes along and wants to buy 5 shares for $ 14 each . So a sale is finally made . At this point , the stock quote moves to $ 14 . The ask price is $ 20 x10 and the bid price is $ 10 x15 . No further trading will occur until another investor is willing to buy at $ 20 or sell at $ 10 . Another discussion of this topic is shown on <URL> .
end question
start question
How does leverage work ?
JoeTaxpayer 's answer adequately explained leverage and some of your risks . Your risks also include : If your balance drops too low , below the required margin , but still positive , the broker can close your trade . It has been reported that some forex brokers will review margin call accounts in an unscrupulous way , after reviewing the currency 's chart for the day , closing out accounts at the worst price of the day instead of the price at which margin was insufficient . Spikes . Some brokers report price spikes in the buying or selling price which can cause your trade to be closed out unfavorably . These spikes may or may not exist at other forex brokerages or in futures market prices . Unlike the stock market and unlike the futures market , there is not a central forex market and so there is not a definitive price/time chart that could aid in holding a broker accountable for any unusual executions on your trades . You could indeed be trading in a small " bubble " of the " real " forex market . Should your broker 's internet site go down at the wrong time , or the broker have to close its doors , you may not be able to control your account for a time long enough to lose substantial amounts of money . Your account might then be closed for low margin , or closed out as zero or negative . Unlike accounts for trading in the stock and futures markets , a forex account can not be easily transferred . This exacerbates risk ( 4 ) , compared to what would happen at a bankrupt or government-seized stock or futures broker . The firm 's risk is that you will figure out a way to leave them with a negative account that contributes to another customer 's profit and yet you disappear in a way that makes the negative account impossible to collect . Another risk is that you are not who you say you are , or that the money you invest is not yours . These are called " know your customer " risks .
Negative interest rates already exist . Like the after tax real interest rate on US T-bills has been negative for 60 years ( Refer to <URL> ) . And in periods of price inflation , of course , the monetary base is under a real negative interest rate , as well as assets with " too low " nominal interest rates . Many economists like Paul Krugman , Greg Mankiw and Willem Buiter recently mentioned that the equlibrium interest rate also currently is negative and even a nominal 0 % is not sensible at all . E.g. here : <URL> Further , even if the the real interest rate is negative , it still can be too high ! Too high meaning that it could still be above the equilibrium interest rate if that is even deeper negative . How the equilibrium interest rate can be negative is easy to imagine : Credit is basically intertemporal trade . And the interest rate is the price for intertemporal trade . If more people want to save money for their retirement then people want ( and can ! ) borrow for the current interest rate , then the interest rate has to drop . And if even at 0 % more people want to save money , the interest rate has to fall below 0 % to reach equilibrium . The limit is the interest rate on the monetary base , which can not go below nominally 0 % . Actually , only cash is a problem , as you could not force anyone to receive the negative interest ( which means : pay for keeping cash ) . As long as the only way is price inflation , it unfortunately always means more indeptness . If no one else can , the governments have to . Thats always the problem with minimum price guarantees : Either the governments have to force someone to pay the lifted price or the government has to pay it themselves . All this is taught to economic students in the first two years . Just that almost no one applies such simple market mechanisms to money . Instead most economists think that money is just a measure . Thanks to Krugman , Mankiw and Buiter and some others to start breaking this error .
Do you simply get call options you can sell on an options exchange ? No , you do n't get call options that you can sell on an options exchange . Rather , you get rights that you can ( generally ) sell on the stock exchange . The right issue is in essence a call option -- in that it behaves like one , but it is not considered a standardized option contract . is there a special exchange where such rights issues are traded ? No . It will normally be done on the stock exchange .
The deposit insurance is n't provided by the bank ; it 's provided by the Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation ( SDIC ) . In the event that the bank fails or is declared insolvent , the SDIC will pay deposit holders their total balance in all accounts with that bank , up to S$ 50,000 . If you hold S$ 60,000 in all of your <URL> , you 'll only receive S$ 50,000 if the bank fails . The SDIC provides an <URL> with sample calculations , and this is exactly what they show . If you deposit an amount greater than $ S50 ,000 , it 's only insured up to S$ 50,000 . So does it mean one should open multiple accounts under different banks to spread the money around and maintain only S$ 50,000 in one deposit account ? This is one option . The calculations page I linked to above gives this reminder : Deposits are not insured separately in each branch office of a DI Scheme member i.e. all your eligible accounts maintained with different branches of a DI Scheme member are aggregated and insured up to S$ 50,000 . This seems like common sense , but it 's important to remember that if you open an account with two branch offices of Bank A , your deposits are aggregated and insured up to S$ 50,000 . The SDIC insurance is per institution ( called a Deposit Insurance Member ) , not per branch . If you hold S$ 45,000 in each branch office , for a total of S$ 90,000 , you 're still only insured up to S$ 50,000 for that bank . If you want to spread out your accounts between multiple banks , make sure they 're different banks , not just different branches . Another option , if it applies to you , is to open a joint account with your spouse . In the <URL> , the SDIC gives this example under point 14 : if you and your husband have a joint account with S$ 70,000 , and you have a separate account of S$ 20,000 , your total deposits of S$ 55,000 will be covered to the maximum of S$ 50,000 . The deposit of $ S70 ,000 is split evenly between the spouses , so in the eyes of the SDIC , each are holding S$ 35,000 . Then , the husband 's additional S$ 20,000 is added to S$ 35,000 for a total of S$ 50,000 . This is then insured up to S$ 50,000 as usual . I 'm sure there are other options specific to Singapore that I 'm not aware of ; if you 're well above the limit , i.e. holding millions of dollars , I 'm sure a professional accountant in Singapore could guide you further .
Fred is correct ... MOST financial advisors ( but not all ) are paid either for managing your assets or for selling you financial products . But success at anything , especially building wealth , is all about PROCESS , not products . I applaud your desire to find a financial advisor to help you because this is not something that most people have the education , experience or capacity to do themselves ( it is impossible to get the perspective you need to make the best choices ) . Start with a CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER professional - they have an ethical duty to do what is in your best interests ahead of their own ( the " fiduciary standard " ) . You might interview two or three . Work with the one who is transparent about how they are paid and whose process is focused on helping you achieve your goals ... not following any rule of thumb or standard boilerplate . Your goals are different . Your financial life is different . Find someone who can help YOU follow YOUR agenda ... not their own .
Danger . The affidavit is a legal document . Understand the risk of getting caught . If you are planning on using the condo to generate income the chances that you default on the loan are higher than an owner occupied property . That is why they demand more down payment ( 20 % + ) and charge a higher rate . The document is n't about making sure you spend 183 + nights a year in the property , it is making sure that it is n't a business , and you are n't letting a 3rd party live in the property . If you within the first year tell the mortgage company to send the bill to a new address , or you change how the property is insured , they will suspect that it is now a rental property . What can they do ? Undo the loan ; ask for penalty fee ; limit your ability to get a mortgage in the future ; or a percentage of the profits How likely is it ? The exact penalty will be in the packet of documents you receive . It will depend on which government agency is involved in the loan , and the lenders plan to sell it on the secondary market . It can also depend on the program involved in the sale of the property . HUD and sister agencies lock out investors during the initial selling period , They do n't want somebody to represent themselves as homeowner , but is actually an investor . Note : some local governments are interested not just in non-investors but in properties being occupied . Therefore they may offer tax discounts to residents living in their homes . Then they will be looking at the number of nights that you occupy the house in a year . If they detect that you are n't really a resident living in the house , that has tax penalties . Suggestion : If you do n't want to wait a year buy the condo and let the loan officer know what your plan is . You will have to meet the down payment and interest rate requirements for an investment property . Your question implies that you will have enough money to pay the required 20 % down payment . Then when you are ready buy the bigger house and move in . If you try and buy the condo with a non-investment loan you will have to wait a year . If you try and pay cash now , and then get a home equity loan later you will have to admit it is a rental . And still have to meet the investor requirements .
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
There are no " rules " about how the price should act after an IPO , so there are no guarantee that a " pop " would appear at the opening day . But when an IPO is done , it 's typically underpriced . On average , the shares are 10 % up at the end of the first day after the IPO ( I do n't have the source that , I just remember that from some finance course ) . Also , after the IPO , the underwriter can be asked to support the trading of the share for a certain period of time . That is the so called stabilizing agent . They have few obligations like : Providing liquidity to avoid strong price movement . Supporting the price by buying the share below a certain level . This price support in often done by a repurchase of some of the shares of poorly performing IPO . EDIT : Informations about the overallotment pool . When the IPO is done , a certain number of client buy the shares issued by the company . The underwriter , with the clients , can decide to create an overallotment pool , where the clients would get a little more shares ( hence " overallotment " ) , but this time the shares are not issued by the company but by the underwriter . To put it another way , the underwriter oversell and becomes short by a certain number of shares ( limited to 15 % of the IPO ) . In exchange for the risk taken by this overallotment , the underwriter gets a greenshoe option from the clients , that will allows the underwriter to buy back the oversold shares , at the price of the IPO , from the clients . The idea behind this option is to avoid a market exposure for the underwriter . So , after the IPO : If the price goes down , the underwriter buys back on the market the overshorted shares and makes a profits . If the price goes up , the company exercise the greenshoe option buy the shares at the IPO prices ( throught the overallotment pool , that is , the additional shares that the clients wanted ) to avoid suffering a loss .
When you give your credit card number and authorize a merchant to charge your credit card , the merchant then gives the information to their merchant processor which in turns bills the bank that issued the card ( it 's a little more complex and it all happens instantly unless the merchant is using the very old fasion imprinting gizmos ) . It is possible for a merchant to attempt to charge you more than you authorized but if they do they risk a fine ( $ 25 - $ 50 for a chargeback ) from their processor , the legitimate portion of the charge as well as increasing the processing fees charged by their processor or even the possibility of loosing their merchant account entirely and being permanently blacklisted by Visa/Mastercard . In short no legitimate business is going to intentionally over charge your credit card . There really is n't significant risk in using a reputable online retailer 's order forms . There is the possibility that their database could be compromised but that risk is lower than the risk of having an employee steal your credit number when you give it to them in person . Besides in the US at least the most you can legally be held liable for is $ 50 assuming you notice the discrepancy within 60 days of statement the charge appears on and most banks limit liability to $ 0 . Over the years I have had a number of different credit card numbers stolen and used fraudulently and I have never had to pay any fraudulent charges .
It is considered additional income , so the 1 % is added to your other income , and then the tax is normally calculated . You can imagine it as getting a raise in that amount , paying your taxes on the higher salary , and then making the virtual ' payment ' in the original height to the car dealership . The net effect of this is a slightly increased tax rate on all your existing income , plus the full increased tax rate of the 1 % . Your net salary ( paycheck ) will be accordingly lower . It is still most of the time a good deal , as you have a car at hand for very low price . Only if it would have otherwise driven a very cheap car , and do n't value the upgrade at all , it might be borderline negative .
What is Amortization ? An amortization schedule is often used to produce identical payments for the term ( repayment period ) of a loan , resulting in the principal being paid off and the debt retired at the end of the loan . This is in contrast to an interest only , or balloon loan . These loans require little or no payment against the balance of the loan , requiring the loan to be paid indefinitely if there is no term , or requiring the loan to be entirely paid off from cash or a new loan at the end of the term . A basic amortization formula can be derived from the compound interest formula : <URL> . The basics of the formula are the periodic payment amount , A ( your monthly payment ) , can be determined by the principal loan , P , the rate , r , and the number of payments , n. Why Amortize ? Lenders lend money to make a profit on the interest . They 'd like to get back all the money they lent out . Amortization schedules are popular because the fixed low payments make it easier for borrowers to pay the loan off eventually . They also tend to be very profitable for lenders , especially at the start of the term , because they make a lot of profit on interest , just like the start of your mortgage . The principal of a mortgage has more meaning than the principal of a revolving debt credit card . The mortgage principal is fixed at the start , and represents the value of the collateral property that is your home . You could consider the amount of principal paid to be the percentage of your home that you actually own ( as part of your net worth calculation ) . Credit Card Amortization A credit card has a new balance each month depending on how much you charge and how much you pay off . Principal has less meaning in this case , because there is no collateral to compare against , and the balance will change monthly . In this case , the meaning of the amortization schedule on your credit card is how long it will take you to pay off the balance if you stop charging and pay at the proscribed payment level over the term described . Given the high interest rate on credit cards , you may end up paying twice as much for goods in the long run if you follow your lenders schedule . Who Amortizes ? Amortizing loans are common for consumer loans , unless a borrower is seeking out the lowest possible monthly payment . Lenders recognize that people will eventually die , and want to be paid off before that happens . Balloon and interest only bonds and loans are more commonly issued by businesses and governments who are ( hopefully ) investing in capital improvements that will pay off in the long run . Thousands of people and businesses have gone bankrupt in this financial crisis because their interest only loans reached term , and no one was willing to lend them money anymore to replace their existing loan .
To me this sounds like a transaction , where E already owns a company worth 400k and can therefore pocket the money from D and give D 25 % of the profits every year . There is nothing objective ( like a piece of paper ) that states the company is worth 400K . It is all about perceived value . Some investors may think it is worth something because of some knowledge they may have . Heck , the company could be worth nothing but the investor could have some sentimental value associated to it . So is it actually the case that E 's company is worth 400k only AFTER the transaction ? It is worth what someone pays for it when they pay for it . I repeat - the 400K valuation is subjective . In return the investor is getting 25 % ownership of the product or company . The idea is that when someone has ownership , they have a vested interest in it being successful . In that case , the investor will do whatever he/she can to improve the chances of success ( in addition to supplying the 100K capital ) . For instance , the investor will leverage their network or perhaps put more money into it in the future . Is the 100k added to the balance sheet as cash ? Perhaps . It is an asset that may later be used to fund inventory ( for instance ) . ... and would the other 300k be listed as an IP asset ? No . See what I said about the valuation just being perception . Note that the above analysis does n't apply to all Dragons Den deals . It only applies to situations where capital is exchanged for ownership in the form of equity .
A re-financing , or re-fi , is when a debtor takes out a new loan for the express purpose of paying off an old one . This can be done for several reasons ; usually the primary reason is that the terms of the new loan will result in a lower monthly payment . Debt consolidation ( taking out one big loan at a relatively low interest rate to pay off the smaller , higher-interest loans that rack up , like credit card debt , medical bills , etc ) is a form of refinancing , but you most commonly hear the term when referring to refinancing a home mortgage , as in your example . To answer your questions , most of the money comes from a new bank . That bank understands up front that this is a re-fi and not " new debt " ; the homeowner is n't asking for any additional money , but instead the money they get will pay off outstanding debt . Therefore , the net amount of outstanding debt remains roughly equal . Even then , a re-fi can be difficult for a homeowner to get ( at least on terms he 'd be willing to take ) . First off , if the homeowner owes more than the home 's worth , a re-fi may not cover the full principal of the existing loan . The bank may reject the homeowner outright as not creditworthy ( a new house is a HUGE ding on your credit score , trust me ) , or the market and the homeowner 's credit may prevent the bank offering loan terms that are worth it to the homeowner . The homeowner must often pony up cash up front for the closing costs of this new mortgage , which is money the homeowner hopes to recoup in reduced interest ; however , the homeowner may not recover all the closing costs for many years , or ever . To answer the question of why a bank would do this , there are several reasons : The bank offering the re-fi is usually not the bank getting payments for the current mortgage . This new bank wants to take your business away from your current bank , and receive the substantial amount of interest involved over the remaining life of the loan . If you 've ever seen a mortgage summary statement , the interest paid over the life of a 30-year loan can easily equal the principal , and often it 's more like twice or three times the original amount borrowed . That 's attractive to rival banks . It 's in your current bank 's best interest to try to keep your business if they know you are shopping for a re-fi , even if that means offering you better terms on your existing loan . Often , the bank is itself " on the hook " to its own investors for the money they lent you , and if you pay off early without any penalty , they no longer have your interest payments to cover their own , and they usually ca n't pay off early ( bonds , which are shares of corporate debt , do n't really work that way ) . The better option is to keep those scheduled payments coming to them , even if they lose a little off the top . Often if a homeowner is working with their current bank for a lower payment , no new loan is created , but the terms of the current loan are renegotiated ; this is called a " loan modification " ( especially when the Government is requiring the bank to sit down at the bargaining table ) , or in some cases a " streamlining " ( if the bank and borrower are meeting in more amicable circumstances without the Government forcing either one to be there ) . Historically , the idea of giving a homeowner a break on their contractual obligations would be comical to the bank . In recent times , though , the threat of foreclosure ( the bank 's primary weapon ) does n't have the same teeth it used to ; someone facing 30 years of budget-busting payments , on a house that will never again be worth what he paid for it , would look at foreclosure and even bankruptcy as the better option , as it 's theoretically all over and done with in only 7-10 years . With the Government having a vested interest in keeping people in their homes , making whatever payments they can , to keep some measure of confidence in the entire financial system , loan modifications have become much more common , and the banks are usually amicable as they 've found very quickly that they 're not getting anywhere near the purchase price for these " toxic assets " . Sometimes , a re-fi actually results in a higher APR , but it 's still a better deal for the homeowner because the loan does n't have other associated costs lumped in , such as mortgage insurance ( money the guarantor wants in return for underwriting the loan , which is in turn required by the FDIC to protect the bank in case you default ) . The homeowner pays less , the bank gets more , everyone 's happy ( including the guarantor ; they do n't really want to be underwriting a loan that requires PMI in the first place as it 's a significant risk ) . The U.S. Government is spending a lot of money and putting a lot of pressure on FDIC-insured institutions ( including virtually all mortgage lenders ) to cut the average Joe a break . Banks get tax breaks when they do loan modifications . The Fed 's buying at-risk bond packages backed by distressed mortgages , and where the homeowner has n't walked away completely they 're negot
Generally not , however some brokers may allow it . My previous CFD Broker - CMC Markets , used to allow you to adjust the leverage from the maximum allowed for that stock ( say 5 % ) to 100 % of your own money before you place a trade . So obviously if you set it at 100 % you pay no interest on holding open long positions overnight . If you ca n't find a broker that allows this ( as I do n't think there would be too many around ) , you can always trade within your account size . For example , if you have an account size of $ 20,000 then you only take out trades that have a face value up to the $ 20,000 . When you become more experienced and confident you can increase this to 2 or 3 time your account size . Maybe , if you are just starting out , you should first open a virtual account to test your strategies out and get used to using leverage . You should put together a trading plan with position sizing and risk management before starting real trading , and you can test these in your virtual trading before putting real money on the table . Also , if you want to avoid leverage when first starting out , you could always start trading the underlying without any leverage , but you should still have a trading plan in place first .
It is in dollars , but US government can not " print " dollars . That 's prerogative of the Federal Reserve , which is formally an independent institution . They sometimes do something that amounts to " printing money " - heard about " quantitative easing " ? That 's it . But US Treasury ca n't do that . To fund whatever US Govt needs money for , it can get money in two ways : collect taxes or sell bonds ( i.e. take loans ) . Since most of the budgets recently run a deficit , that means US Govt collects less taxes than it spends . The difference is covered with loans , or bonds . So the debt is the sum of all government bonds held by individuals or foreign nations . As many of the lottery/casino winners have learned , the key to financial soundness is to have more income than spending . If you spend more than you got , it does n't matter how much you 've got - you 'll end up broke . US Government , for political reasons , routinely <URL> - because for politicians , spending gets them elected , while austerity gets them hated . Thus US debt is growing . Private people and foreign government gave those loans to US government . They do it because they consider it relatively safe investment and they get interest on it - just as you would do if you have savings account . Your savings account is a loan to a bank and earns you interest . US Government bond is a loan to the government and earns them interest . In fact , most of the bonds more like CD ( certificate of deposit ) than savings account , since they are given for a fixed amount of time - 5 , 10 , 20 , etc. years . There are shorter and longer term bonds , but in any case you can not demand payment before the term ( though you can sell the bond and recover the money , but somebody then needs to buy it from you ) . Since most of the people trust that US Government is not going under any time soon , since , as you noted , US is wealthy , they are content with investing their money and getting the interest . The size of the debt is not dangerous until there 's doubt that the debtor can repay - and the fear is that we approaching this threshold . It 's like somebody taking a mortgage - if you have good income , you can take a big mortgage , but the bank will ( or supposed to , at least :) related the mortgage size with your repayment ability . So far US repayment ability was found adequate by people , but if we abuse it , it may change and then US is up for the tough times - just as if someone stops paying the mortgage . In this case , both sides lose - the investors lose their investment or at least see it diminish and the US loses its credibility and thus ability to take more loans . Nobody wants it happen , so politicians from all countries try to work together to prevent it . We 'll see how good they manage to do it .
Many brokers administer their own dividend reinvestment plans . In this case , on dividend payment date , they automatically buy from the market on behalf of their reinvestment customers , and they administer all fractional shares across all customers . All of your shares are in the broker 's street name anyway , the fractional share is simply in their account system . The process is well documented for several common online brokers ; so any specific questions you may have about differences in policies or implementation should be directed to your broker : <URL> <URL>
Start the process by contacting the company that services the mortgage . They can answer all your questions . Does the process basically just involve sending in money or are there other documents that must be exchanged ? They should have a form that needs to be submitted . You will want to get from them the most up-to-date payoff amount X days from now . The amount changes each day . They will be sending you a document signifying that the debt has been met . They will also be filing paperwork with the county/city/township releasing the property from the mortgage obligation . Is the payoff usually paid with a regular check or with a cashier 's check , bank wire , etc. ? Because all my mortgage payoffs have either been or refinancing or I have sold the property , the balance due was significant and the lender required a cashiers check . Contact them to ask . If it only a few thousand left they might take a regular check . I see that a payoff amount is associated with a particular date , presumably because of interest calculations . Does this imply that checks are usually send by overnight delivery in order for them to arrive exactly on the designated date , and what happens if they arrive late ? Sending the checks via overnight delivery speeds up the process , and cuts down on the uncertainty of the delivery date . Ask for a return receipt so that you have proof of the date it was received . Overpay by a couple of days . They will refund the overage . Let 's say my mortgage balance is $ 4500 , and my monthly payment is usually $ 1000 . What would happen if I just continued to pay monthly bills instead of requesting a final payoff ? Would the mortgage company eventually send me a final bill that would work like a final payoff ? If you let the mortgage run its course , you will still get a document back from them ; they will still file the documents with the local government ; and they will refund any overage . If you look at the coupon book , or the paperwork they gave you at settlement the last payment is usually a different amount due to rounding of the monthly payments . Of course if you have been making extra payments or larger than required payments the numbers on the original coupon book are moot so contact the company for the last payment amount .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
yes , when you apply for a new loan the loan originator will do a ' hard pull ' on your credit history which will result in your score going down . In my experience your score may go down by 20 points or so . You should be able to recover it fairly soon by making timely payments . I was also told that you can do as many hard pulls as you want within 48 hours and it will effect your just like one pull . So when shopping around for a mortgage probably a good idea to allow them to check your credit score on the same day . Unlike soft pulls when credit card companies just check it for marketing purposes . This does n't effect your credit score . Here some information explaining the difference <URL>
end question
start question
How to minimise the risk of a reduction in purchase power in case of Brexit for money held in a bank account ?
The mathematical answer is for you to have a diversified portfolio in your ISA . But that 's easier said than done .
The expense ratio is 0.17 % so doesnt that mean that for every 10K I keep in the money market fund I lose $ 17/year ? Not really . The expense ratio is taken before distributions are paid which applies to all mutual funds . Should I care about this ? In this case not really . If it was a taxable account , then other options may be more tax-efficient that is worth noting . The key with money market funds is that the expense ratio often represents how much money the administrators will take before paying out the rest . So , if your money market fund bought investments that paid .25 % then you 'd likely see .08 % as that is what is left over after the .17 % is taken in the dividends . If at the start of the year , the funds NAV is $ 1 , and at the end of the year , the funds NAV is still $ 1 , I havent lost anything right ? Right . <URL> has a good article on money market funds . Keep in mind that most money market funds are run as one of a number of funds from a fund family that may have to take a little less profit on the money market funds when rates are low .
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
You are not allowed to have any of your own dependents if you are a dependent ( or can possibly be claimed , even if not claimed ) on someone 's return . You can not claim any dependents if you ( or your spouse , if filing jointly ) could be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer . <URL> If you are considered to be a qualifying child of another tax payer , you are not allowed to claim the Earned Income credit . If you are a qualifying child of another taxpayer , you can not claim the EIC . This is true even if the person for whom you are a qualifying child does not claim the EIC or meet all of the rules to claim the EIC . Put " No " beside line 64a ( Form 1040 ) or line 38a ( Form 1040A ) . <URL> . In addition , the standard deduction that can be claimed is less than that for a single taxpayer that is not a dependent . The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person 's tax return is generally limited to the greater of : $ 1,000 , or The individual 's earned income for the year plus $ 350 ( but not more than the regular standard deduction amount , generally $ 6,100 ) . However , if the individual is 65 or older or blind , the standard deduction may be higher . <URL>
As someone who works for a company that deploys POS systems in Canada , I can tell you that your best bet would be to have a configuration option that lets the client decide what to do . If they have a business practice that would allow for a sale total to be $ 0.01 or $ 0.02 , they should first evaluate their business practice . If you 're building a POS system to deploy in Canada , I 'm sure you have access to resources ( potential clients ) who would already know how they would want to handle this . Ask them .
If you are looking at domestic transfers , all Banks hold accounts with the Central Bank [ Reserve Bank ] , in US the Central Bank is called Federal Reserve . The money from account of Bank of America held with Fed is debited and the account of Citi held with Fed is credited .
Yes , there is a way to step-up contributions now , you just have to ask your FSA vendor ( in our case , after thinking about it for a month they realized they could n't think of a reason to prevent it ) . From the FSA vendor : [ the FSA vendor ] advised that [ my wife can be allowed ] to accelerate her dependent care deductions prior to going out on leave up to the $ 5,000 household limit ( or $ 2,500 if married filing separate tax returns ) . Her dependent care FSA election will need to be used for daycare expenses incurred before or after her leave of absence . Daycare expenses incurred while she is out on leave are not eligible . Please see the pre-pay options in the attached Election Change form .
I would disagree with your analysis . To me there are two purposes for a money market ( MM ) : Emergency Fund Pre-purchase money parking fund Your emergency fund should be from 3 to 6 months of expenses . Think of it of an insurance policy against Murphy . You may want to have some money designated for big expenses , or even sinking funds . For example , I keep some money in a MM for a car as both the wife , daughter , and I driver older vehicles . I may need to replace them . If you were planning on making a larger purchase car , house , boat , engagement ring I would put the money in a MM fund so you are not subject to the whims of the market . After that you are free to invest all your money . Its likely that you should have some money outside of tax advantaged funds so if you want to start a business you will not have to do high cost withdrawals .
This depends on the country ( ies ) involved . US citizen/resident giving gifts is required to pay a <URL> . The recipient of the gift , however , pays nothing . The value of the gift at the time of the gift-giving is used to determine the tax , and an exclusion of $ 14000 per person per year ( as of 2013 ) is available to allow smaller gifts to be given without too much of a red tape . There 's also a lifetime exemption which is shared between the gift tax and the estate tax . This exemption is $ 5.25 M in 2013 . The reason the gift tax exists in the US is because the US tax code is very aggressive . This is basically double taxation , similarly to estate tax . Gifts/estates are after-tax money , i.e. : income tax has been paid on them , yet the government taxes them again . Why ? The excuse is to disallow shifting of income : if one person has high income tax brackets , he may give some of his income-producing property to another person with lesser brackets who would then pay less income taxes ( for example , parents would transfer property to children ) . Similarly capital gains could be shifted . Generation-skipping tax is yet another complication to disallow people use gifts to avoid estate taxes : a grandparent would gift stuff to grandchildren , thus skipping a level of estate taxes ( the parents in between ) . In other countries the tax codes may be less aggressive , and not tax gifts/inheritance as this money has been taxed before . This is a more fair situation , IMHO , yet it means that wealth moves from generation to generation without the " general public " benefiting from it . So if you 're a US person and considering giving or receiving a gift - you need to consult with a tax adviser about the consequences . Similarly with other countries , if you are subject to their tax laws .
Couple of factors here to consider : 1 ) The savings vehicle 2 ) The investments Savings Vehicle : Roth IRAs allow you the flexibility to save for retirement and/or your house . Each person can save up to $ 5,500 in a Roth and you can withdraw your principal at anytime without penalty . ( There is a special clause for first time home buyers ; however , it limits the amount to $ 10k per person . Given your estimate of $ 750k and history of putting down 20 % . It would require a bit more . ) The only thing is that you ca n't touch the growth or interest . When you do max out your Roth IRA , it may make sense for you to open a brokerage account ( 401Ks often have multiple steps in order to convert or withdraw money for your down payment ) Investments : Given your timeline ( 5-7 years ) your investments would be more conservative . ( More fixed income ) While you should stay diversified ( both fixed income and equity ) , the conservative portfolio will allow less fluctuation in your portfolio value while allowing some growth potential .
It is considered additional income , so the 1 % is added to your other income , and then the tax is normally calculated . You can imagine it as getting a raise in that amount , paying your taxes on the higher salary , and then making the virtual ' payment ' in the original height to the car dealership . The net effect of this is a slightly increased tax rate on all your existing income , plus the full increased tax rate of the 1 % . Your net salary ( paycheck ) will be accordingly lower . It is still most of the time a good deal , as you have a car at hand for very low price . Only if it would have otherwise driven a very cheap car , and do n't value the upgrade at all , it might be borderline negative .
Assuming that the will that bequeathed the money to your son did not stipulate any restrictions or set up a trust to hold the money until your son turns 25 , or something like that , I do n't think you have much choice except to put the money in a UTMA account ( which of course can be invested in whatever the trustee ( which could be you , or you and your wife jointly ) decides . Note : not a UGMA account since the money is not a gift . You also do n't have any option except to turn the account over to your son when he turns eighteen . The point is , the investment can be in anything as long as the account is registered as a UTMA account . But do remember also that your son is entitled to sue you for breach of fiduciary duty if you do n't take good care of the money , so that blowing it all in risky investments is also not a good idea . If you are worried about taxes and your son 's income being taxed at your rate , one way of deferring the issue is to buy US Savings Bonds . The interest can be deferred from taxation until the bonds are redeemed . Edit added in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comments : But a better strategy is to declare the accrued interest each year as unearned income of the child on the kiddie tax form that is part of your tax return , and pay the tax , if any , that results To ease your mind or conscience , think of the tax that you pay on your child 's behalf as a gift to your child ! In any case , there will likely not be much tax due since the first $ 950 of unearned income of a child is tax-free and the next $ 950 taxed at 10 % . Then , when the bonds are cashed in , the interest that accrued ( and was " taxed " ) in earlier years can be deducted from the interest ( cash in price minus purchase price ) that you ( or your son ) will be told is the interest that the bonds earned . Of course , if kiddie tax is not a concern ( and it should n't be , given the amount available for investment ) , an even better strategy is to set up the UTMA account ( s ) in long-term investments in low-cost index funds or ETFs ( as JoeTaxpayer suggests ) and pay the tax , if any , as it comes due .
The following advice assumes that you have a significant amount already in the account in cash equivalents . If you are only talking a few hundred bucks or so , then just jump in at the next dip ( like today 's ) . If you have a larger amount to move into equities , the safest approach is to gradually move it into investments over some period of time at regular intervals regardless of what is going on in the market . This mitigates the risk of investing it all into an fund that is peaking at the exact moment you buy . So , for example , you might invest 20 % of the total amount each month for 5 months to gradually get into the market . The larger the amount you are investing , the more you probably want to spread it out , but do n't spread it out much further than a year or you are losing opportunity cost by leaving your money in cash-type investments with likely a very poor rate of return . This strategy is called <URL> if you want to research it more .
The mutual fund will price at day 's end , while the ETF trades during the day , like a stock . If you decide at 10am , that some event will occur during the day that will send the market up , the ETF is preferable . Aside from that , the expenses are identical , a low .14 % . No real difference especially in a Roth .
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
Benefits : As <URL> mentions , this is literally a savings account that you can use for <URL> , with no time limitation ( unlike an FSA where you must use the money by the end of the year ) The tax benefits for can be large . if you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket and your state charges you an additional 7 % taxes in your income bracket , if you put $ 3,000 into an HSA in a year , $ 3000 will be knocked off your AGI for taxes and so you 'll owe 32 % * $ 3000 = $ 960 less money in taxes come tax day ( assuming you do n't adjust your witholdings ) . If your employer offers it , you can put money in your HSA just like a 401k - PRE tax . That means you get the tax savings of putting money in an HSA over the year instead of in a lump sum at the end of the year . If you 're well off and healthy , this is a great investment vehicle . You can put money into a <URL> or a <URL> Premiums are often lower for HSA 's than other types of insurance . Often preventative coverage is completely covered ( doctors visits , immunizations etc ) . Costs : By law HSA 's must have a high deductible - $ 1200 for singles or $ 2,400 for families according to <URL> . From what I 've seen of HSA 's , you 're on the hook for any drugs you buy until your deductible is met . Depending on how many drugs you are on this could get costly . It can take time to find a good HSA account that gives you a good return at a reasonable cost . Check out investment vehicle links above for some good options IMO . If you or someone in your family gets injured or goes to the ER/hospital a lot , you 'll chew right through your deductible . It takes time to manage the inflow/outflow of money into and out of your HSA . You have ultimate flexibility and the ultimate responsibility of proving to the IRS ( if they audit you ) that you used the money for qualified medical expenses . Tax laws changing makes the viability of these accounts uncertain . Perhaps something that is allowable as a qualified medical expense now , will not be considered a qualified medical expense later - like over the counter drugs next year , due to some stupid changes ( in my opinion ) . <URL> : However , beginning in early 2011 you will no longer be able to pay for OTC ( over the counter ) medications with HSA dollars Notes : I 've found it easiest to pay for expenses through a credit card and then keep track of those which are reimbursable in a spreadsheet , and take a HSA withdrawl to cover my expenses . Other options include paying for large health care expenditures ( e.g. getting LASIK ) directly out of your HSA . State income taxes may or may not exclude HSA 's You have to make sure when you use healthcare that you bill it to your insurance , otherwise it isnt counted as part of your deductible ( even if you are fully responsible for the bill ) . A general thought - HSA 's fit the classical model of " insurance " , which is , to insure against very bad things happening ( car accident , cancer etc ) . You 're on the hook for the first $ X ,000 ( the deductible ) for that year , but typically everything after is covered by the insurer . HSA 's are good if you actually investigate the costs associated with healthcare - do n't go to an ER if urgent care will do , or if you do n't need to go to urgent care , forego it .
They use an amortization table like can be found <URL> . The Forumula is not that complex where : A = payment Amount per period P = initial Principal ( loan amount ) r = interest rate per period n = total number of payments or periods You will need to add 50 to the A to account for the payment fee amount though .
Wells Fargo uses a service called <URL> to do this transfer without an account number . This is the same service Bank of America uses , so when you configured your account to be linked to clearXchange , Wells Fargo customers can use it the same way Bank of America customers can . This <URL> . Since your bank is a member , they 've integrated the service <URL> : If your bank is a clearXchange member , you will need to use your current online or mobile banking service to send and receive payments . If you had n't previously configured it through BofA , you 'd have been taken to their site to register an account in order to receive the money , it seems . They explicitly point out <URL> that they will automatically deposit any money you receive through their service without your having to " accept " the payment like you would from other P2P pay services . If you do n't want to use this service anymore , I suggest contacting your bank , but if they ca n't or wo n't help you , you can contact <URL> to have your account closed .
The damage has already been done . Your address discrepancy will n't matter much as you have other credits which have your new addresses and are connected to your old address . So you addresses will have already been linked , without any breaks , to identify you as the same person . overdrawn , making irregular payments to counter the interest while I focus on higher priority debts The bank might have tried contacting you for payments , any letters or visits you received or know of . They might have tried to help you in your payments , you might have missed the chance . Many banks tend to have schemes to help people in difficulty . So do n't do that again and check your balance left in the account . They might have added fees . Never do that again , and always keep your bank in loop as they might be able to help . Contact the bank and explain your scenario , it is never too late . And check if they have n't sent it across to any debt collection agency , which is a very unhelpful scenario . If bailiffs turn up , which is n't pleasant , be prepared . There are some scum bailiffs who try to scam you money , against the law . Get some help in how to deal with them . Ask the citizen 's advice for help , if it comes to that . 1 . Tell the bank about my current address now , then tell them of my new address when I move Tell them now about your current address and when you move update them immediately . It does n't matter much in how frequently you change because you real staying time in an address is n't only collated from one credit , but all credits you have . 2 . Wait until I move , then just give them my new address This also might n't be a bad option . Change and then update them . Or call up the bank and ask for advice . But get in touch with the bank . Bailiff 's at your door is never ever good . Those idiots turn up at odd times , to catch you at your most vulnerable moment .
Assuming you are paying into and eligible to collect regular Employment Insurance benefits for the job in question , I do n't see how owning a side business would , by itself , affect your ability to participate in the workshare program . Many people own dormant businesses ( $ 0 revenue / $ 0 income ) , or businesses with insignificant net income ( e.g. a small table at the flea market , or a fledgling web-site with up-front costs and no ad revenue , yet ;-) I think what matters is if your side business generated income substantial enough to put you over a certain threshold . Then you may be required to repay a portion of the EI benefits received through the workshare program . On this issue , I found the following article informative : <URL> , from the Globe &amp; Mail 's Report on Business site . Here 's a relevant quote : " [ ... ] If you work elsewhere during the agreement , and earn more than an amount equal to 40 % of your weekly benefit rate , that amount shall be deducted from your work sharing benefits payable that week . [ ... ] " The definitive source for information on the workshare program is the <URL> . In particular , see the Work-Sharing <URL> , which discusses eligibility criteria . Section IV confirms the Globe article 's statement above : " [ ... ] Earnings received in any week by a Work-Sharing participant , from sources other than Work-Sharing employment , that are in excess of an amount equal to 40 % or $ 75 ( whichever is greater ) of the participant 's weekly benefit rate , shall be deducted from the Work-Sharing benefits payable in that week . [ ... ] " Finally , here 's one more interesting article that discusses the workshare program : <URL> .
end question
start question
What 's the average credit limit ?
Well , I did a bit more research , and one <URL> , which I suppose is one way I can compare where I 'm at to people like me . <URL> Edit : Credit limits have been lowering over time . The chart above is from 2011 , now in 2015 :
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
The time to take advantage of this downgrade was BEFORE it happened , not after . Typically responding to an event after the market has already had time to correct for it is a good way to lose money .
Several , actually : Maintenance costs . As landlord , you are liable for maintaining the basic systems of the dwelling - structure , electrical , plumbing , HVAC . On top of that , you typically also have to maintain anything that comes with the space , so if you 're including appliances like a W/D or fridge , if they crap out you could spend a months ' rent or more replacing them . You are also required to keep the property up to city codes as far as groundskeeping unless you specifically assign those responsibilities to your tenant ( and in some states you are not allowed to do so , and in many cases renters expect groundskeeping to come out of their rent one way or the other ) . Failure to do these things can put you in danger of giving your tenant a free out on the lease contract , and even expose you to civil and criminal penalties if you 're running a real slum . Escrow payments . The combination of property tax and homeowner 's insurance usually doubles the monthly housing payment over principal and interest , and that 's if you got a mortgage for 20 % down . Also , because this is not your primary residence , it 's ineligible for Homestead Act exemptions ( where available ; states like Texas are considering extending Homestead exemptions to landlords , with the expectation it will trickle down to renters ) , however mortgage interest and state taxes do count as " rental expenses " and can be deducted on Schedule C as ordinary business expenses offsetting revenues . Income tax . The money you make in rent on this property is taxable as self-employment income tax ; you 're effectively running a sole proprietorship real-estate management company , so not only does any profit ( you are allowed to deduct maintenance and administrative costs from the rent revenues ) get added to whatever you make in salary at your day job , you 're also liable for the full employee and employer portions of Medicare/Medicaid/SS taxes . You are , however , also allowed to depreciate the property over its expected life and deduct depreciation ; the life of a house is pretty long , and if you depreciate more than the house 's actual loss of value , you take a huge hit if/when you sell because any amount of the sale price above the depreciated price of the house is a capital gain ( though , it can work to your advantage by depreciating the maximum allowable to reduce ordinary income , then paying lower capital gains rates on the sale ) . Legal costs . The rental agreement typically has to be drafted by a lawyer in order to avoid things that can cause the entire contract to be thrown out ( though there are boilerplate contracts available from state landlords ' associations ) . This will cost you a few hundred dollars up front and to update it every few years . It is deductible as an ordinary expense . Advertising . Putting up a " For Rent " sign out front is typically just the tip of the iceberg . Online and print ads , an ad agency , these things cost money . It 's deductible as an ordinary expense . Add this all up and you may end up losing money in the first year you rent the property , when legal , advertising , initial maintenance/purchases to get the place tenant-ready , etc are first spent ; deduct it properly and it 'll save you some taxes , but you better have the nest egg to cover these things on top of everything your lender will expect you to bring to closing ( assuming you do n't have $ 100k + lying around to buy the house in cash ) .
People rave about <URL> by <URL> . The impressive part is all the <URL> you can get for it . There are add-ins for invoicing , billing , accounting , and time tracking .
" Cleared " means that the transaction is settled at the bank/merchant . An example would be when you pay a credit card bill , the bank will acknowledge receipt of your payment at some point . " Reconciled " means that you 've verified the account against your records . In this case , you want to verify your future dated transactions against the actual statement received from the bank/merchant .
Simply staying out of debt is not a good way of getting a good credit score . My aged aunt has never had a credit card , loan or mortgage , has always paid cash or cheque for everything , never failed to pay her utility bills on time . Her credit score is lousy because she has never had any debts to pay off so there is no credit history data for her . To the credit checking agencies she barely exists . To get a good score ( UK ) then get a few debts and pay them off on time .
Trust in the <URL> and if you do n't believe them , then their <URL> which is HM Government . The numbers are regional instead of by city , and are mean averages . For your three areas : London # 29,947 Yorkshire ( including Leeds I believe ) # 20,247 South West England ( which would include Bristol ; but also all of Cornwall ) # 20,954 A more industry specific query might have significantly different results .
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
Because 401k 's are also used by self employed . A person who has a schedule C profitable income can open a 401k and " match " in whatever ratio he wants , up to 25 % of the net profits or the limits you stated . This allows self-employed to defer more income taxes to the future . Why only self-employed ? Good question . Ask your congressman . My explanation would be that since they 're self-employed they 're in much more danger of not having income , especially later in life , if their business go south . Thus they need a bigger cushion than an average W2 employee who can just find another job .
Tradable is a much broader term than marketable . For example , some programmers/developers sell their services online , hence programming is a tradable service . However , it is not a security nor is it marketable since it can not readily be converted to cash . All marketable securities are , by definition , tradable .
<URL> It 's 5 days later , and the site shows as above ( i.e. they fixed it after receiving my note ) . For whatever one can say to criticize the tax code , it 's written by congress , not the IRS . When I say " my friends at the IRS " it 's not to be snarky , but a sincere thanks for how responsive and helpful I 've found them in my 35 years of paying taxes . ( And for what it 's worth , this morning I saw an IRS email , telling me they corrected the typo and thanking me for the note . )
These are similar but one outcome is easier to manager first : Hard Pull does negatively effect credit slightly ( " new credit " on that chart ) second : A lower credit utilization ratio ( " amounts owed " on the chart ) increases your credit greater than a hard pull does . In both scenarios ( getting a new card vs increase on an existing card ) , if approved , you will have a lower credit utilization ratio , thereby increasing your credit if you keep that ratio low and pay minimums . But if you just keep one card , and that card has a higher limit , then you will have more flexibility on the size of purchases you can make without effecting your utilization ratio . Making the option of a credit increase on an existing card easier to manage . It is also more likely to get approved for a greater credit increase on an existing card than getting approved for a new card . ( ie . its more likely you may get a store-specific nonvisa/nonmastercard/nonamericanexpress card , or a card with a low limit ) . So if you want to take chances with your hard pulls , know what you are more likely to get instead of wasting a hard pull .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
If $ X is the amount saved as of the beginning of the time period , $ Y is the amount contributed at fixed intervals of time ( once a month , once a quarter , once a year , whatever ) , and the contribution is made at the end of the interval and during each such interval , the earnings on the account are 100z % for that time period , then , at the end of the first interval , the account will have $ X ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the second interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the third interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 3 + Y ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it money.SE does not support MathJax and so additional math gets messier , but some people may have recognized the calculations as being the same as what is called <URL> for evaluating a polynomial . The polynomial in question is a polynomial with variable t given by Xt ^ n + Yt ^ { n-1 } + Yt ^ { n-2 } + ... + Yt + Y and it is evaluated at t = 1 + z. Note that if the periodic contributions are variable instead of being fixed , this is easily accommodated by changing the appropriate coefficient of the polynomial . On the other hand , for fixed contributions , the polynomial in question can be expressed Xt ^ n + Y ( t ^ n - 1 ) / ( t-1 ) which , when evaluated as t = 1 + z gives X ( 1 + z ) ^ n + Y ( ( 1 + z ) ^ n-1 ) / z as the amount that one will have after n time intervals have elapsed .
Banks often offer cash to people who open savings accounts in order to drive new business . Their gain is pretty much as you think , to grow their asset base . A survey released in 2008 by UK-based Age Concern declared that only 16 % of the British population have ever switched their banks ' while 45 % of marriages now end in divorce . Yip , till death do most part . In the US , similar analysis is pointing to a decline in people moving banks from the typical rate of 15 % annually . If people are <URL> then how much more difficult for online brokers to get customers to switch ? TD Ameritrade is offering you 30 days commission-free and some cash ( 0.2 % - 0.4 % depending on the funds you invest ) . Most people - especially those who use the opportunity to buy and hold - wo n't make much money for them , but it only takes a few more aggressive traders for them to gain overall . For financial institutions the question is straightforward : how much must they pay you to overcome your switching cost of changing institutions ? If that number is sufficiently smaller than what they feel they can make in profits on having your business then they will pay . EDIT TO ELABORATE : The mechanism by which any financial institution makes money by offering cash to customers is essentially one of the " law of large numbers " . If all you did is transfer in , say , $ 100,000 , buy an ETF within the 30-day window ( or any of the ongoing commission-free ones ) and hold , then sell after a few years , they will probably lose money on you . I imagine they expect that on a large number of people taking advantage of this offer . Credit card companies are no different . More than half of people pay their monthly credit balance without incurring any interest charges . They get 30 days of credit for free . Everyone else makes the company a fortune . TD Ameritrade 's fees are quite comprehensive outside of this special offer . Besides <URL> , their <URL> include subscription fees , administration fees , transaction fees , a few extra-special value-added services and , then , when you wish to cash out and realise your returns , an outbound transfer fee . However , you 're a captured market . Since most people wo n't change their online brokers any more often than they 'd change their bank , TD Ameritrade will be looking to offer you all sorts of new services and take commission on all of it . At most they spend $ 500 - $ 600 to get you as a customer , or , to get you to transfer a lot more cash into their funds . And they get to keep you for how long ? Ten years , maybe more ? You think they might be able to sell you a few big-ticket items in the interim ? Maybe interest you in some subscription service ? This is n't grocery shopping . They can afford to think long-term .
When you pay monthly , you 're making 12 payments / year . Assuming you have a payment of $ 1000/mo , that 's $ 12,000 / year that you 're paying for your mortgage . When you opt for bi-weekly , they 're saying that you can pay half of your mortgage ( $ 500 ) bi-weekly ( can be configured to align with your paycheck ) . Since there are ~ 26 bi-weekly periods in a year , you 're making 26 * $ 500 = $ 13,000 in mortgage payments each year . Some of these companies charge a fee for you to utilize this service . The main concept behind this is that people are horrible at budgeting on their own , so when $ 500 is immediately taken from your paycheck , you 'll be able to budget around what 's left and be able to make that extra payment each year without thinking about it or realizing it .
As an investor , I try to interpret the suits as an attempt to in some way influence the actions of the company - and not , usually , as a serious legal threat ( or as likely to lead to serious legal consequences ) . My ( shallow ) understanding ( as a non-lawyer ) is that the requirements for a lawsuit to be filed as class-action suit are ( relatively speaking ) easier to meet when the company is publicly traded - the shareholders are more easily described as a " class " . So it 's more common for lawsuits that involve stock holders for large , publicly traded companies to be registered as class action suits . Class action suits include a requirement for some advertising and notifications ( so all members of the class become aware of the suit , and can decide whether to participate ) . So , these types of suits can be started with various goals in mind , goals which might be achieved without the suit ever going anywhere - including to gain some publicity for a particular point of view , or to put pressure on the company to perform particular actions . In most cases , though , they are the result of misunderstandings between the various parties with an interest in how the company is run - shareholders , directors and/or executive officers . For most cases , the result of the suit is a more in depth sharing of information between the parties involved , and possibly a change in the plans/actions of the company ; the legal technicalities differ from case to case , and , often , the legal consequences are minor .
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
end question
start question
Taxation difference between income from credit union ( CU ) shares versus bank deposits ( e.g. CDs ) ?
For tax purposes , the IRS treats credit union " dividends " on the same basis as interest payments from banking institutions . The difference between the two is that credit union deposits reflect an ownership stake in the credit union . As a shareholder , you can participate in meetings and may have a voice in credit union governance . Bank deposits are just a liability on the bank 's books . To the average person , there is no real discernible distinction between the two .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
You should first take into account your living expense in other country by using some online living expense estimator . ( for example , <URL> ) Then do some simple math to calculate the amount based on your home country currency . Apart from that , you may want to put the rest of your salary into your Canadian account .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 591/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
It would be quite the trick for ( a ) the government to run all year and get all its revenue in April when taxes are due and ( b ) for people to actually save the right amount to be able to cut that check each year . W2 employers withhold the estimated federal and state taxes along with the payroll ( social security ) tax from each paycheck . Since the employer does n't know how many kids you have , or how much mortgage interest , etc you will take deductions for , you can submit a <URL> to adjust withholdings . The annual Form 1040 in April is to reconcile exact numbers , some people get a refund of some of what they paid in , others owe some money . If one is self-employed , they are required to pay quarterly estimated taxes . And they , too , reconcile exact numbers in April .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 501/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 501/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
The ratings that you see are usually <URL> . The <URL> publishes several different kinds of ratings that are designed to measure " the creditworthiness of an issuer or debt obligation " , i.e. how close the company is to insolvency , how financially stable it is , etc. . In short , it 's a rating of the financial strength of the company . For most consumers , these ratings probably are n't anything more than a formality , since most major insurers are solid companies . Of course , these ratings break down when companies are n't estimating their potential for losses correctly , hence the bailout of AIG after its fiasco with credit default swaps . The <URL> AM Best uses is somewhat complex . They state that : Our rating process involves a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company 's balance sheet strength , operating performance and business profile . This includes comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans , philosophy and management . I 'm fairly certain that these ratings apply to all types of insurers , including re-insurers , as well as some of the securities they offer . <URL> and <URL> also publish ratings of insurance companies , but AM Best is known for focusing almost exclusively on the insurance industry . All of these ratings are financial strength ratings , however , which is n't necessarily indicative of how appropriate their products will be for you . I 'm sure there are other ratings too , e.g. customer service ratings , that you could find somewhere , but I do n't know of any specific ones off the top of my head . The financial strength of a company is more relevant when you buy a life insurance policy or an annuity , because you want the company to be viable for a long time . In this case , you should consider the financial strength ratings as part of your evaluation before purchasing such a policy .
In most companies , a fund and a portfolio mean the same thing ; therefore a fund manager and portfolio manager are the same role . The difference between a portfolio manager and a trader ( where exists ) is as follows : Portfolio manager 's job is to decide on the best contents ( holdings ) in the portfolio that would accomplish the portfolio 's stated objective within stated constraints ( e.g. make the best possible return while keeping the risk under a specified level ) . Trader 's job at a buy-side institution is to basically execute the trades necessary to change the portfolio holdings from their current state to whatever state portfolio managers decided to achieve . As a matter of fact , at some smaller buy-side firms ( especially fixed income ) , there ARE no separate trader positions , and portfolio managers do both jobs . A trader 's job is to execute the required trades so that the transaction costs are minimized and the PnL is maximized by buying as low as possible and selling as high as possible ( e.g. for a simple example dumping a large chunk of a certain stock all at once would depress the stock price so you would make less money as your average sell price goes down ) . Trader 's job at a sell-side institution is more involved , as the trader is also responsible for making money for the firm via his trades , e.g. he may trade securities specifically for the purpose of making the money off the trade as opposed to the purpose of achieving desired portfolio composition .
Think about what the words actually mean . The tax meaning is pretty much the same . Deductions are adjustments to your income for meeting certain conditions . Subtractions usually mean that your tax liability is reduced by a certain amount , but reduce your income below zero . Exemptions are like deductions , but are n't based on you meeting a condition . Usually for income tax , this is income that by its nature is disqualified from consideration . For example , income earned while living in another state is generally ( but not always ) exempt from taxation . Or taxes paid to another governmental body .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
I think you should really start a limited company for this . It 'll be a lot simpler to spread the income over multiple years if your business and you have completely separate identities . You should also consult an accountant , if only once to understand the basics of how to approach this . Having a limited company would also mean that if it has financial problems , you do n't end up having to pay the debts yourself . With a separate company , you would keep any money raised within the company initially and only pay it to yourself as salary over the three years , so from an income tax point of view you 'd only be taxed on it as you received it . The company would also pay for project expenses directly and there would n't be any income tax to pay on them at all . You would have to pay other taxes like VAT , but you could choose to register for VAT and then you 'd be able to reclaim VAT on the company 's expenses but would have to charge VAT to your customers . If you start making enough money ( currently # 82,000 / year ) you have to register for VAT whether you want to or not . The only slight complication might be that you could be subject to corporation tax on the surplus money in the first year because it might seem like a profit . However , given that you would presumably have promised something to the funders over a three year period , it should be possible to record your promises as a " liability " for " unearned income " in the company accounts . In effect you 'd be saying " although there 's still # 60,000 in the bank , I have promised to spend it on the crowdfunded thing so it 's not profit " . Again you should consult an accountant at least over the basics of this .
No to both . The deposit refund is not taxable , but in states where security must earn interest , that small amount is subject to tax . I just returned a $ 750 deposit to a tenant , and after a year , it accrued $ 0.24 . A rebate of fees you pay such as ATM fees is just you getting back your own money . As is " cash back " on credit card purchases . Not taxable .
A credit default swap is an insurance contract . It is not a tradeable asset . The premium leg consists of those contracted premium payments that are made to the CDS issuer . If by trading this leg separately you mean selling the right to pay premiums , then obviously no-one is going to buy the right to make premium payments without the right to make a claim in the case of a default . Why would anyone pay to make future payments with no benefits ? The default leg consists of the contracted benefits the holder of the CDS will receive in the case of a default . While the issuer of the CDS may be able to offload some of their risk of a claim through a re-insurance transaction , this is not an option for the CDS holder . The idea of the holder of a CDS selling their right to receive payment in the case of a default is a non-starter since there would be no profit to be made , only the additional expense of entering into a legal contract with a third party . The holder of the CDS is legally obliged to pay the premiums and legally entitled to the associated benefits . On top of this , there would be the legal and administrative costs of trading . So the answer to your question is " no " . There is currently no such market , and unlike the " stripped bonds " market , there is no conceivable circumstance under which such a market would be feasible .
The difference between dividend and growth in mutual funds has to do with the types of stocks the mutual fund invests in . Typically a company in the early stages are considered growth investments . In this phase the company needs to keep most of its profits to reinvest in the business . Typically once a company gets a significant size the company 's growth prospects are not as good so the company pays some of its profits in the form of a dividend to the shareholders . As far as which is the best buy is totally a personal choice . There will be times when one is better then the other . Most likely you will want to " diversify " and invest in both types .
Tradable is a much broader term than marketable . For example , some programmers/developers sell their services online , hence programming is a tradable service . However , it is not a security nor is it marketable since it can not readily be converted to cash . All marketable securities are , by definition , tradable .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
Do not mix personal accounts and corporate accounts . If you 're paid as your self person - this money belongs to you , not the corporation . You can contribute it to the corporation , but it is another tax event and you should understand fully the consequences . Talk to a tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) . If they pay to you personally ( 1099 ) - it goes on your Schedule C , and you pay SE taxes on it . If they pay to your corporation , the corporation will pay it to you as salary , and will pay payroll taxes on it . Generally , payroll through corporation will be slightly more expensive than regular schedule C . If you have employees/subcontractors , though , you may earn money which is not from your own performance , in which case S-Corp may be an advantage .
Yes . You did not notice the " $ 1,410 Customer Down Payment " , the " $ 650 Acquisition Fee " , the " $ 350 Disposition Fee " " due at lease termination " , and the " $ 275 security deposit " for customers who do not have good enough credit . Also , " A dealer documentary service fee up to $ 150 may be added to the sale price or capitalized cost . " These charges might ( or might not ) add up to the dealer profit margin . You can negotiate the " Adjusted Capitalized Cost " of " $ 29,841 " , and the " documentary service fee " . By doing so , you can reduce your up-front payment ( and the dealer profit margin ) . The price mentioned above " Includes destination charge , but excludes state and local taxes , tags , registration , title and insurance . " Also , this is a " low mileage lease " . If you choose to not purchase the vehicle at the end of the lease , you " may be charged for excessive wear based on Toyota Financial Services standards for normal use and for mileage in excess of 24,000 miles at the rate of $ 0.15 per mile " .
end question
start question
Refinancing a vehicle , longer term with extra in the kitty , or shorter term and just make scheduled payment ?
It really depends on the answers to two questions : 1 ) How tight is your budget going to be if you have to make that $ 530 payment every month ? Obviously , you 'd still be better off than you are now , since that 's still $ 30 cheaper . But , if you 're living essentially paycheck to paycheck , then the extra flexibility of the $ 400/month option can make the difference if something unforeseen happens . 2 ) How disciplined ( financially ) have you proven you can be ? The " I 'll make extra payments every month " sounds real nice , but many people end up not doing it . I should know , I 'm one of them . I 'm still paying on my student loans because of it . If you know ( by having done it before ) , that you can make that extra $ 130 go out each and every month and not talk yourself into using it on all sorts of " more important needs " , then hey , go for it . Financial flexibility is a great thing , and having that monthly nut ( all your minimum living expenses combined ) as low as possible contributes greatly to that flexibility . Update : Another thing to consider Another thing to consider is what they do with your extra payment . Will they apply it to the principal , or will they treat it as a prepayment ? If they apply it to principal , it 'll be just like if you had that shorter term . Your principal goes down additionally by that extra amount , and the next month , you owe another $ 400 . On the other hand , if they treat it as a prepayment , then that extra $ 130 will be applied to the next month 's bill . Principal stays the same , and the next month you 'll be billed $ 270 . There are two practical differences for you : 1 ) With prepayment , you 'll pay slightly more interest over that 60 months paying it off . Because it 's not amortized into the loan , the principal balance does n't go down faster while the loan exists . And since interest is calculated on the remaining principal balance , end result is more interest than you otherwise would have paid . That sucks , but : 2 ) with the prepayment , consider that at the end of year 2 , you 'd have over 7 months of payments prepaid . So , if some emergency does come up , you do n't have to send them any money at all for 7 months . There 's that flexibility again . :-) Honestly , while this is something you should find out about the loan , it 's really still a wash . I have n't done the math , but with the interest rate , amount of the loan and time frame , I think the extra interest would be pretty minor .
No , futures do not carry a premium . The premium on an option contract exists because the rights and obligations of the parties involved are not equivalent . On an option , one party has an obligation while the other party has a right to buy or sell at a price ( with no obligation to do so ) . This difference in obligation is why the side that sells the contract receives the premium while the side that buys the contract pays it . The side that gets more choice pays the side that gets fewer . With futures , the two sides are both obligated to fulfill the contract . Because their obligations are equivalent , neither pays a premium to the other .
It can be done , but it takes a very special set of circumstances : You must be willing to buy only items that you can get for free or nearly free . You must be willing to buy as many items as the store will allow you to in a single visit The store must offer programs like double or triple manufacturers coupons . You must be willing to do everything you can to get as many coupons as you can . You must take advantage of the store loyalty programs . You must have many hours free to plan these types of events , and to gather all the required coupons . Plus the time to get that many items off the shelves and into the carts . And the most important item - There must be some extraordinary deal at that store that day or that week that allows them to essentially give you free money . If you want to buy only the products you like , in quantities that you need , at the closest store to your house you ca n't reach those levels . When you read about these types of shoppers keep in mind they are not going to this extreme to do their regular grocery shopping .
The psychology of investing is fascinating . I buy a stock that 's out of favor at $ 10 , and sell half at a 400 % profit , $ 50/share . Then another half at $ 100 , figuring you do n't ever lose taking a profit . Now my Apple shares are over $ 500 , but I only have 100 . The $ 10 purchase was risky as Apple pre-iPod was n't a company that was guaranteed to survive . The only intelligent advice I can offer is to look at your holdings frequently , and ask , " would I buy this stock today given its fundamentals and price ? " If you would n't buy it , you should n't hold it . ( This is in contrast to the company ratings you see of buy , hold , sell . If I should hold it , but you should n't buy it to hold , that makes no sense to me . ) Disclaimer - I am old and have decided stock picking is tough . Most of our retirement accounts are indexed to the S&amp;P . Maybe 10 % is in individual stocks . The amount my stocks lag the index is less than my friends spend going to Vegas , so I 'm happy with the results . Most people would be far better off indexing than picking stocks .
Assuming you are paying into and eligible to collect regular Employment Insurance benefits for the job in question , I do n't see how owning a side business would , by itself , affect your ability to participate in the workshare program . Many people own dormant businesses ( $ 0 revenue / $ 0 income ) , or businesses with insignificant net income ( e.g. a small table at the flea market , or a fledgling web-site with up-front costs and no ad revenue , yet ;-) I think what matters is if your side business generated income substantial enough to put you over a certain threshold . Then you may be required to repay a portion of the EI benefits received through the workshare program . On this issue , I found the following article informative : <URL> , from the Globe &amp; Mail 's Report on Business site . Here 's a relevant quote : " [ ... ] If you work elsewhere during the agreement , and earn more than an amount equal to 40 % of your weekly benefit rate , that amount shall be deducted from your work sharing benefits payable that week . [ ... ] " The definitive source for information on the workshare program is the <URL> . In particular , see the Work-Sharing <URL> , which discusses eligibility criteria . Section IV confirms the Globe article 's statement above : " [ ... ] Earnings received in any week by a Work-Sharing participant , from sources other than Work-Sharing employment , that are in excess of an amount equal to 40 % or $ 75 ( whichever is greater ) of the participant 's weekly benefit rate , shall be deducted from the Work-Sharing benefits payable in that week . [ ... ] " Finally , here 's one more interesting article that discusses the workshare program : <URL> .
This depends on the jurisdiction , but such companies are typically subject to regulations ( and audits ) that require them to keep the customers ' accumulated premiums very strictly separated from the company 's own assets , liabilities and expenses . Additionally , they are typically only allowed to invest the capital in very safe things like government bonds . So , unless something truly catastrophic happens ( like the US government defaulting on its bonds ) or people in the company break the regulations ( which would invovle all kinds of serious crimes and require complicity or complete failure of the auditors ) , your premiums and the contractual obligation to you would still be there , and would be absorbed by a different insurance company that takes over the defunct company 's business . Realistically , what all this means is that insurance companies never go bankrupt ; if they do badly , they are typically bought up by a competitor long before things get that bad .
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
No , at least not noticeably so . The majority of what HFT does is to take advantage of the fact that there is a spread between buy and sell orders on the exchange , and to instantly fill both orders , gaining relatively risk-free profit from some inherent inefficiencies in how the market prices stocks . The end result is that intraday trading of the non-HFT nature , as well as speculative short-term trading will be less profitable , since HFT will cause the buy/sell spread to be closer than it would otherwise be . Buying and holding will be ( largely ) unaffected since the spread that HFT takes advantage of is miniscule compared to the gains a stock will experience over time . For example , when you go to buy shares intending to hold them for a long time , the HFT might cost you say , 1 to 2 cents per share . When you go to sell the share , HFT might cost you the same again . But , if you held it for a long time , the share might have doubled or tripled in value over the time you held it , so the overall effect of that 2-4 cents per share lost from HFT is negligible . However , since the HFT is doing this millions of times per day , that 1 cent ( or more commonly a fraction of a cent ) adds up to HFTs making millions . Individually it does n't affect anyone that much , but collectively it represents a huge loss of value , and whether this is acceptable or not is still a subject of much debate !
Generally speaking , each year , mutual funds distribute to their shareholders the dividends that are earned by the stocks that they hold and also the net capital gains that they make when they sell stocks that they hold . If they did not do so , the money would be income to the fund and the fund would have to pay taxes on the amount not distributed . ( On the other hand , net capital losses are held by the fund and carried forward to later years to offset future capital gains ) . You pay taxes on the amounts of the distributions declared by the fund . Whether the fund sold a particular stock for a loss or a gain ( and if so , how much ) is not the issue ; what the fund declares as its distribution is . This is why it is not a good idea to buy a mutual fund just before it makes a distribution ; your share price drops by the per-share amount of the distribution , and you have to pay taxes on the distribution .
You should pay for grad school without taking loans if your circumstances permit . There is the possibility of a tax write off for interest paid on student loans , but <URL> and it 's very much a " give me $ 10 , and I 'll give you $ 5 back " kind of deal . You 're better off not borrowing the money to begin with , even though I tend to think that borrowing for things which appreciate -- e.g. , a house -- or which can significantly increase your earning capability -- e.g. , the right kind of graduate school -- is generally better/wiser/more permissible than borrowing for something which depreciates , like a car . Having no student loan debt after graduation means you have greater freedom than someone who is laboring to pay student loan debt in addition to all of their other bills . My $ 0.02
I commend you for your desire to be a smart and engaged investor . Regarding the other comments , yes the market is unpredictable and dangerous , but such is everything that leads to profit . I am currently reading , <URL> - mighy be at your local library . The book is helpful because in explaining the options market , it covers basic stock methodologies and then builds on them as it pursues a quant 's math/computation based view of the market . The book is highly math oriented and discusses authors ' custom design scripts/alogrithms to analyze market behavior . See <URL> about technical analysis ( since it often directs short term trading decisisions ) .
Outside of a tax sheltered IRA or 401 ( k ) type of account your transactions may trigger tax liability . However , transactions are not taxed immediately at the time of the transaction ; and up to a certain limits capital gains can be offset by capital losses which can mitigate your liability at tax time . Also , remember that dividend receipts are taxable income as well . As others have said , this has nothing to do with whether or not money has been moved out of the account .
Yes , its called the Credit Card reform act and it went into effect in February 2010 .
The math is pretty easy . Closing costs are nearly identical , noise . Take the lower rate , and just keep up the prepayments . Unless you got rates flipped , but either way , the term here is irrelevant , you want the lower rate , period . Edit - 5.125 % $ 132K PMT of $ 1020 , leads to a remaining time of 15yrs , 9 mo. . Please confirm your current numbers are correct . One caution - looking at your numbers , $ 1020 payment now , 15 yr payment $ 981 , you might be tempted to see a $ 39 difference and calculate a near 24 month break even . Which of course is nonsense . If you went out to 30 years and saw a payment closer to $ 630 , almost $ 400/mo less , a 2 mo breakeven is the same nonsense . Principal payments do n't count , your cost of money is the interest you pay . On $ 132K , 1.125 % ( savings ) is $ 1485 . Your breakeven is about 8 months , even if the term were 10 years and the payment far higher than what you pay now . Other discussions of breakeven focus on cash flow , but you 've made it clear that 's not your concern , nor should it be if you can pay $ 1000/mo extra principal .
This <URL> provides answers on how to short US Treasuries . Shorting US Treasuries is a way of betting that yields will rise on US Treasuries . Similar to hedging against rising interest rates .
No . You can sell anytime . I am in pedantic mode , sorry , the way the question is worded implies that you can sell only if it rises . You are welcome to sell at a loss , too . Yes . The fund will not issue a dividend with every dividend it receives . It 's more typical that they issue dividends quarterly . So the shares will increase by the amount of the undistributed dividends and on the ex-div date , drop by that amount . The remaining value goes up and down , of course , I am speaking only of the extra value created by the retained dividends .
Let 's look at some numbers . These are just example rates that I found online . You can substitute your own quotes and compare yourself . I 'm not going to name the company , but these advertised rates are all from one nationally-known company for a 25-year old female . Whole life : $ 78.13 / month for $ 100,000 of coverage . 10-year term : $ 15.00 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 20-year term : $ 15.45 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 30-year term : $ 20.23 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . If you went with the whole life option , you would be paying $ 937.56 per year . The policy builds a cash value ; the amount this grows can vary greatly , and you 'll need to look at the fine print to see how it will grow , but let 's pretend that after 30 years , the cash value of the policy is $ 50,000 ( a reasonable guess , in my opinion ) . Let 's look at what this means : You can cash out your policy , but at that point , you 'll stop paying payments , and your heirs wo n't get your $ 100,000 death benefit . You can borrow against it , but you 'll have to pay it back . You could use it to pay your premium , in which case you 'll stop paying payments . However , keep in mind that if you do pass away , you lose the cash value you 've built up ; your beneficiaries only get the $ 100,000 death benefit . Now let 's look at the term insurance option . We 'll go with the 30-year term . It will only cost you $ 242.76 per year , and the death benefit is more than double the whole life coverage . If you were to take the difference between the two premiums ( $ 58 per month ) and invest it in a mutual fund growing at 8 % per year , you would have $ 86,441 in your account after 30 years . This money is yours ( or your heirs ) , whether or not you pass away before your term is up . After the 30 years is up , your insurance is over , but you are now almost all the way up to the death benefit of the whole life policy anyway . In my opinion , term life insurance is better than whole life for just about everybody . I do n't want to be morbid here , but the earlier someone dies , the more benefit they get with term insurance vs whole life . If someone does have reason to believe that his life expectancy is shorter than average , term insurance makes even more sense , as he is more likely to get the death benefit for much less money in premiums than he would in whole life .
Look for an individual long-term disability policy that can do a temporary group plan offset in your policy and that otherwise converts to the full coverage desired when you cease to be a group member ( i.e. you resign from the job or are terminated . ) Essentially , such an individual LTD policy acknowledges you may receive benefits as a member of the existing group LTD plan , yet enhances its benefits . The individual plan would only top up ( as opposed to double up ) your disability benefits while you are still a group member , and upgrades when you are no longer a member . I was in a similar situation some years ago . In my case , I had already purchased an individual LTD policy when working as a self-employed IT contractor ; I had no group coverage . But , one of the features I selected for the policy was an annual " future income option " , guaranteeing I could buy more coverage ( without any further medical ) as my income would increase . I took advantage of it from time to time since I was younger and my income was growing quickly . A couple of contract gigs later , I found myself back in a full-time job . The employer enrolled me in their group LTD plan , which was inferior to my individual plan in a number of respects ( the definition of disability , was n't " own occupation " coverage , etc. ) , so I maintained my individual policy alongside . While employed full time , I was again offered the opportunity to purchase additional coverage based on higher income . When I applied for increased benefits , the application form had this question : If you have group coverage , would you accept the addition of a group offset amendment , if required , due to your group coverage in force ? Yes ___ No ___ . Essentially , I needed to accept the group offset amendment which meant , in effect , " We will increase your individual LTD policy benefits , but as long as you are part of your group LTD plan , those benefits will pay first and reduce additional benefits from your individual plan -- until you are no longer part of the group . " When I left that job years later , I contacted my LTD insurer for another increase and also informed them I was no longer covered by the group LTD plan . The group offset amendment was removed from my policy ( I was issued a " Policy Change Rider " confirming that ) and so all the added benefits I 'd applied for converted to " full " benefits on the policy no longer subject to an offset . So , look for an individual LTD policy that will acknowledge ( a ) yes , you are part of a group policy , and this means " offsetting " , but ( b ) more important is that you need a guarantee from the individual LTD policy that when you cease to be a member of the group LTD plan , then your benefits in the individual policy convert to what you previously had in both plans combined . Ask your agent if he inquired about group offsets specifically . IMHO , if your agent does n't specialize in individual LTD insurance and instead is a " one stop shop " , you should consider talking to an agent who knows LTD inside and out .
Here is a quick way to estimate the reduction in your term . The numbers you need to start with are in bold . Take the amount of the extra principal payment . For example , # 500 . Take your interest rate . For example , 2 % / year ( as an APR ) . Calculate your monthly interest rate , and convert to a decimal . For example , 2 % / year * ( year/12 months ) = 1/6 of 1 % / month ~ 0.001666666 / month . Add 1 to the monthly interest rate . For example , 1.001666666 . Find the number of months remaining on your loan . For example , 20 years * ( 12 months/year ) = 240 months . Raise the value from step 4 to the power from step 5 . For example , 1.001666666 ^ 240 ~ 1.4913 . Multiply the value from step 6 by the extra principal payment from step 1 . For example , 1.4913 * # 500 ~ # 745 . This is the amount of money you will avoid paying at the end of the mortgage . Find the amount you are paying per month for principal and interest . Do n't include taxes , insurance , or homeowners dues . For example , # 750/month . Divide the amount from step 7 by the monthly amount from step 8 . This is the number of months by which you have shortened your mortgage . In this example , you have shortened your mortgage by a little less than one month . For low interest rates ( like 2 % / year ) , you can ignore the compounding within each year . You can convert the APR to a decimal , add 1 , and raise to the power of the number of years remaining . For example , 1.02 ^ 20 ~ 1.4859 . Then continue with step 7 . For example , # 743 / ( # 750/month ) is still a little less than one month . If your interest rate is positive , this approximation is conservative . It will slightly underestimate your savings ( or overestimate how much time is left on your mortgage ) . If you really need to be accurate , you can redo the calculation using the new length of the mortgage . For example , 239 months instead of 240 months . In this example , the difference is very small . But if your monthly interest rate times the number of months you shortened the mortgage is " big enough " , then this correction might matter .
I found a way to do this , but it 's slightly backwards . Quicken does not allow you to make a graph of just your income , probably because that would be a fairly boring graph for most people . But it does allow you to do a graph of your expenses . Doing so , while including income categories , will produce the graph I want , but with negative numbers ( savings is negative spending ) . Go to Reports - > Reports and Graph Center in the main menu . In the Quicken Standard Reports section , go to Spending by Category Click the Customize button . On the Customize Spending by Category window , on the Categories tab , add all Income and Expense categories ( but no Bank categories ) . Click Show Graph . Set the Column to Month . This will switch it from a pie chart to a bar graph This will show a bar graph of overall spending , counting income as Negative Spending . So , having negative bars is good in this case .
end question
start question
Best way to transfer a mortgage , and keep the house ?
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
Payoneer and PayPal both allow you to connect your bank account to withdraw funds , that is likely your best option
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
If you have good credit , most banks should be comfortable giving you a loan that you can clearly afford for only 10 % down . If you put less than 20 % down , you 'll almost certainly have to pay for PMI ( Private Mortgage Insurance ) . This will be rolled into your regularly monthly payments . Once you 've paid enough of your mortgage off that you have 20 % equity , you 'll be able to have PMI removed . If you only pay your minimum payments , PMI will not go away for several years , but if you put extra money toward principal , you can get rid of it sooner , or possibly ask your bank to re-appraise your house if you feel it has appreciated enough or you have done some improvements that raise your equity above 20 % . Note that taking it off early is typically subject to a " seasoning period " of a couple of years , during which you can not have PMI removed from your loan . Also remember that there are a lot of costs associated with buying a house ( closing costs ) . You can ask that the seller contribute to these in your offer ( in exchange for a slightly higher price ) . It 's the same for them , and you keep a bit more of your savings . Typically , this is 3-5 % of the price , but can only be applied to your closing costs ( you do n't get cash , you just do n't write as big of a check to the bank for your down payment , tax escrow , etc. ) Edit : I 'm actually in this situation myself . Had an offer accepted on a home for $ 150,000 with 3 % back ( $ 4500 ) . I 'm putting 10 % down , am locked in at 3.990 % , and will be paying about $ 77 every month in PMI . My plan is to start aggressively paying down principal starting in about a year , such that I 'll have 20 % in equity by Q3 2014 , at which point I can get rid of PMI . Without doing that , I 'd be paying PMI well into 2017 .
could I decline it so the money would be returned back to the account they were transferred from ? As a general banking practise , there is nothing automated that will allow you to mark something as return the funds . You would have to approach your Bank with a written statement mentioning that you do n't recognise this credit as belonging to you and request the bank to take appropriate action .
I would estimate the total costs as somewhere from # 1,000 to # 3,000 . Stamp duty is indeed <URL> . It 's 1 % of the total house price in the range # 125,000 to # 250,000 . There was a temporary exemption for a while for first-time buyers , defined as never having owned a house before . That 's ended now , though . You need a <URL> when buying - usual cost is somewhere between a few hundred pounds and a couple of thousand , depending on how thorough it is . Generally the more thorough surveys are appropriate for older houses . You might also want specialist reports on things like the electric wiring and the plumbing . You need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to handle the legal aspects , and there are also a <URL> associated with those legal aspects . Typical total cost is # 500 - # 1000 . There might be a fee associated with getting a mortgage , but it depends entirely on the deal you get and should generally just be considered as part of the costs of the loan rather than the house purchase itself .
I 'd first put it in CDs or other short term account . Get through school first , then see where you land . If you have income that allows you to start a Roth IRA , I 'd go for that , but keep it safe in case you actually need it back soon . After school , if you do n't land a decent job fast , this money might be needed to live on . How long will it last if you take a few months to find work ? If you do find a good job , moving , and setting up an apartment has a cost . Once you 're there , I 'd refer you to the many " getting started " Q&amp;A s on this site .
I 've never heard of portable mortgages in the US . If you ca n't afford two mortgages , you will have to sell the first house to pay off its mortgage before you can buy the 2nd house . This is done all the time in the US . You can put your current house on the market ( advertise it for sale ) then arrange for a long closing while you arrange to buy a new house . Also , you can make an offer on a new house and include a contingency clause that you must sell your current house first . Good escrow companies are very good at managing cascading transactions like this .
The money is paid to investors who bought those mortgage backed securities . The company that services those loans is responsible for making sure the money is paid to the right investors
First off , the basics on HST/GST : You do n't need to collect HST , if you do n't want to , until you hit 30k in a particular three month period ( assuming you 're not regularly passing $ 30k ) . You then need to collect on the sale that takes you over $ 30k plus all sales after that . See <URL> for example : [ B ] usiness goes through the roof , generating more than $ 30,000 in one particular three-month period . In this case , the day the sale goes through that took you over that $ 30,000 threshold becomes the day you cease to be a small supplier . You must charge GST/HST on the sale that put you over the $ 30,000 limit , and on all sales after that , even if you are not yet registered . You now have 29 days to register with the government . Alternately , if you hit 30k over four three-month periods ( i.e. , a year ) , then you are exempt until the end of that fourth three-month period , after which you must register and collect HST the month after : [ R ] evenues in excess of $ 30,000 during four ( or fewer ) previous , consecutive three-month periods . You will be considered to be a small supplier for those four calendar three-month periods , plus the next month . Your first sale after that additional month , and all sales thereafter , will have to include GST/HST . You will have 29 days from the first day of the second month to register . However , many businesses do collect HST/GST even under that limit , in particular as it means you can collect tax refunds for your input HST/GST paid . If you do so , then you simply register from the start , and then you do n't need to worry about it . You do need to remit those taxes collected , though . If you do n't remit , you wo n't be able to collect tax rebates for your input HST/GST . You decide to become a GST/HST registrant when you start your business . You expect to exceed the $ 30,000 threshold at some time in the near future . You also want to receive any GST/HST paid back from the government on all expenditures especially those high startup costs . And , as <URL> recommends : In most cases , it 's generally a good idea to register for GST/HST as soon as your business is established . Provided that your business makes ( or will make ) taxable or zero-rated supplies , early registration ensures that GST/HST paid on costs incurred is recoverable since tax paid prior to registration is generally not recoverable except on the purchase of inventory , capital property and prepaid services still on hand at the time of registration . Be sure to register early because , in many situations , registering late can result in the loss of recoverable GST paid before registration .
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
If you can pay it then there 's no need to involve a credit counselor . After all , their main role when you use them is to negotiate payments with creditors so you can pay off your debts . In this case you have the funds to pay , so why make it any more complicated than it needs to be ? To be honest , a 597 score is going to make it tough for you to find auto financing . Whatever options you find , they 'll charge pretty steep interest rates and have high payments because they 'll keep you on as short a payment term as your finances will allow . I would strongly suggest that you work on improving your score for awhile before trying to buy a car . If you can , buy a car for cash . You might not get much , but it will solve your transportation problem while you work on resolving your credit issues . Using a credit counselor wo n't have any impact on your credit score as far as the debts are concerned . What will make a difference is not having them show as open collections , which is pretty bad . You 'll still take a hit for having gone to collections in the first place , but paying them off will mitigate at least some of the effect . I hope this helps . Good luck !
This is going to vary very much between different countries based on their local regulations . It 's certainly possible to open a bank account remotely , but you ca n't just open any old account . In almost all cases the bank will require you to appear in person , and even then many countries restrict accounts to local residents of that country only . To open an account remotely , you are best placed to look for an " offshore " account . These are frequently used by expatriates who require a bank account in their home country after moving abroad and can no longer hold a " normal " account ( or do n't want to for tax reasons ) . Most of the time they will offer a range of currencies ( GBP/EUR/USD being common ) and you can hold multiple currencies if needed . Offshore accounts are often based in unique geographical destinations ( e.g. in Europe there are many offshore banks based in the Isle of Man , Jersey , Guernsey ) . A lot of these banks do accept remote applications to open an account , but the process takes some time and requires a lot of paperwork to be sent back and forth . Regarding the minimum balance though , you 'll find this is common . Offshore banks cost more money to run and a minimum balance of US$ 5000 is very normal . If you search around enough there are some with lower balance requirements , but your choices will be limited . Wire transfers are certainly possible , but normally have to be via SWIFT ( read : high transaction fees ) . If this is too expensive for your purposes , your only other option is to take a trip to the country in question and go to a branch in person to open a " normal " account . Make sure you check that the banking rules of that country allow non-residents to open accounts before you travel though !
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
If this is her primary residence and the mortgage is secured by it - then yes , she can deduct the mortgage interest . The caveat : she has to either be on the title , or on the mortgage . Source : <URL> . IRC Section 163 deals with all the interest deductions and as such is quite hard to read and follow . In order to understand how to follow the statute , the Treasury issues regulations . Regulation <URL> is dealing with the IRC section 163 . This is what the regulation 1.163-1 ( B ) has to tell us : ( b ) Interest paid by the taxpayer on a mortgage upon real estate of which he is the legal or equitable owner , even though the taxpayer is not directly liable upon the bond or note secured by such mortgage , may be deducted as interest on his indebtedness . Thus , the answer to your question , as user662852 suggested in the comment , depends on whether she 's on the title ( or otherwise has ownership interest , if for example it is purchased with community funds in a community property state - check with a local lawyer . ) . Keep in mind that MFS rules affect what and how much deductions you can take , so you need to check carefully whether MFS is suitable for you .
There is no difference in taxation in India if you transfer every month or bulk . If you use specialized remittance services from leading Indian Banks , there would be little difference in fees . Assuming you are keeping the funds in NRE account in India and hold it in GBP , you get a slight better rate of interest that what you would get in UK . The interest would not be taxable in India , however it would be in UK . If you convert the funds at hold it in NRE , Rupee account , you would get still better rate of interest . However you are taking the Fx risk when you try and convert this back to GBP incase you decide to stay on . There are no right or wrong answers Edit : There is no limit on the amount of funds earned as NRE that can be got into India tax free . There is a time limit of 7 Years to get the funds back to India tax free . From a tax point of view if you transfer into NRE account its easy . If you transfer into Normal Savings account you would need some paperwork .
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
To your question regarding contracts , I 'd say it 's like anything else . Having a contract always helps to protect both parties in the event of a dispute . Given that you both are in different countries , it may be a major headache to try to sue and enforce contractual rights . So , it 's up to you and your attorney ( s ) to decide if a contract is worthwhile . I 'd say your best bet is to use an escrow service . That would be the safest way to do it . An escrow service assures both parties that the transaction will proceed without any shenanigans . Personally , if we 're talking about a high value property , I 'd have my attorneys draft a contract and use an escrow service .
end question
start question
Do you know of any online monetary systems ?
I recently came across bitcoin , it is what I was really looking for at the time .
For a transaction on POS , where physical swipe is required , the transaction is valid only if it is signed the by card holder . I have several times disputed transactions that did not belong to me . The card company often make you go round about , but one has to be persistent and it then gets reversed . On Card Not Present transactions , be it internet or Phone , they are not valid unless authenticated by additional PIN . There may be certain companies that would allow a transaction without such authorization , but these would get reversed if the card holder complains .
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
Try something like this : <URL> Virtual or fantasy trading is a great way to immerse yourself in that world and not lose your money whilst you make basic mistakes . Once real money is involved , there are some online platforms that are cheaper for lower amount investing than others . This article is a good , recent starting point for you : <URL> Best of luck in the investment casino ! ( And only risk money you can afford to lose - as with any form of investment , gambling , etc )
That 's the kind of strategy that " works until it does n't . " Some people have observed daily , monthly , " seasonal " patterns in trading that exist , usually for psychological reasons . These observations work until enough people " catch on . " Then they move the calendar . In order to continue to succeed , you have to keep one step ahead of the crowd .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
There are two obvious cases in which your return is lower with a heavily leveraged investment . When the interest payments on the loan outweigh the return . If a $ 100,000 investment of your own cash yields $ 1000 that 's a 1 % return . If you put in $ 50,000 of your own money and borrow $ 50,000 at 2 % , you get a 0 % return Whenever returns are negative ( After factoring in the interest as above . ) If you buy an investment for $ 100,000 and it loses $ 1000 , that 's a -1 % return . If you borrow $ 100,000 and buy two investments , and they both lose $ 1000 , that 's a -2 % return .
Another reason for banks to push this is sitckyness . Once you have all of your bills setup , its more trouble to change banks . This reduces the customer turnover rate , which lowers their costs .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
A. Bank transfer is the normal way to do it . The Law Society will ( eventually ) make good any losses incurred on money held by solicitors acting fraudulently , so your money should not be at risk , provided you make sure to transfer the money to the account number your solicitor gave you . B. It 's not just normal but essential to transfer the money before exchanging contracts , since the deposit has to be paid by your solicitor to the vendor 's solicitor as part of the exchange process . You ca n't wait to pay the deposit until after you 've exchanged , because you have n't exchanged until you 've paid the deposit . C . If you really want to put down the 10 % deposit now and pay the rest upon completion , that should be possible -- talk to your solicitor about it .
These do exist in the US ; I 've personally used them in the past through a Citi credit card . Wikipedia has some info that seems to fit : <URL> A controlled payment number ( a trademark of Orbiscom [ 1 ] ) , also called by generic names substitute credit card number , one-time use credit card , disposable credit card and virtual credit card number ) is an alias for a credit card number . It is generated through the use of either a Web application or a specialized client program , interacting with the card issuer 's computer , and is linked to the actual credit card number . Typically , a controlled payment number has a limit , and an expiration date between two and twelve months from the issue date , both chosen by the account owner , and while it can usually be set up to allow multiple transactions , it can only be used with a single merchant . This " alias " number is indistinguishable from an ordinary credit card number , and the user 's actual credit card number is never revealed to the merchant . Consequently if it is compromised a fraudulent user can usually not steal money , and the limit reduces how much a dishonest merchant can steal . The system was developed by Orbiscom , a Dublin-based payment processing company which was acquired by Mastercard in January 2009 and in parallel by Cyota Inc. [ 2 ] It is used by a number of credit card issuers . In the USA , these include Bank of America ( which inherited its system , " ShopSafe , " when it acquired MBNA ) , Citibank ( " Virtual Account Numbers " ) , Discover Card 's Secure Online Account Numbers and NetSpend 's " virtual accounts " . Examples from other countries are MBnet , which can create a payment number linked to virtually any credit or debit card emitted in Portugal .
<URL> , under the " OFX " section , has pointers to an <URL> . You 're looking for the info starting at page 18 , section 1.2.1 : Clients use the HTTP POST command to send a request to the previously acquired Uniform Resource Locator ( URL ) for the desired financial institution . The URL presumably identifies a Common Gateway Interface ( CGI ) or other process on an FI server that can accept Open Financial Exchange requests and produce a response . and then shows some examples . The first page linked above also has some python scripts for downloading OFX data from your bank .
The trick is that any payment you send over the minimum required will be applied to the check balance first , not your main purchases . I guess if you do n't use that card for anything else at all it might work out .
Check out ycharts.com , here is an example of GS <URL>
<URL> points to the <URL> . Does that get you started ?
Typically , preferred shares come with one or both different benefits - a disproportionate share of votes , say 10 votes per share vs the normal 1 , or a preferred dividend . The vote preference is great for the owner ( s ) looking to go public , but not lose control of the company . Say , I am a Walton ( of Walmart fame ) and when I went public , I sold 80 % of the ( 1000 share total ) company . But , in creating the share structure , 20 % of shares were assigned 10 votes each . 800 shares now trade with 800 votes , 200 shares have 10 votes each or 2000 votes . So , there are still the 1000 shares but 2800 votes . The 20 % of shares now have 2000/2800 or 71 % of the total votes . So , my shares are just less than half ownership , but over 78 % of votes . Preferred dividend is as simple as that , buy Stock A for ownership , or ( same company ) Stock A preferred shares which have ownership and $ 1/yr dividend . Edited to show a bit more math . I use a simple example to call out a total 1000 shares . The percentages would be the same for a million or billion shares if 20 % were a 10 vote preferred .
Credit card , without a doubt . The reason is dispute resolution . If you dispute a charge on debit card - the money has left your account already , and if the dispute was accepted - you 'll get it back . If . Eventually . In the mean time your overdraft will be missing $ $ $ . For credit cards , you can catch a fraud action before the money actually leaves your pocket and dispute it then . In this case the charge is set aside , and you will only be required to actually pay if the dispute is rejected . I.e. : The money stays in your pocket , until the business proves that the charge is legit . In both cases , if the dispute is justified ( i.e. : there was indeed a fraud ) neither you nor the bank will lose money at the bottom line , it 's just who 's got the money during the dispute resolution process ( which may be lengthy ) that matters .
It 's not just the US based mailing address for registration or US based credit-card or bank account : even if you had all these , like I do , you will find that these online filing companies do not have the infrastructure to handle non-resident taxes . The reason why the popular online filing companies do not handle non-resident taxes is because : Non-residents require a different set of forms to fill out - usually postfixed NR - like the 1040-NR . These forms have different rules and templates that do not follow the usual resident forms . This would require non-trivial programming done by these vendors All the NR forms have detailed instructions and separate set of non-resident guides that has enough information for a smart person to figure out what needs to be done . For example , check out <URL> . As a result , by reading these most non-residents ( or their accountants ) seem to figure out how the taxes need to be filed . For the remaining others , the numbers perhaps are not significant enough to justify the non-trivial programming that need to be done by these vendors to incorporate the non-resident forms . This was my understanding when I did research into tax filing software . However , if you or anyone else do end up finding tax filing software that does allow non-resident forms , I wil be extremely happy to learn about them . To answer your question : you need to do it yourself or get it done by someone who knows non-resident taxes . Some people on this forum , including me for gratis , would be glad to check your work once you are done with it as long as you relieve us of any liability .
I recently came across bitcoin , it is what I was really looking for at the time .
If you can deal with phone calls instead of a face to face meeting , for the average person with an average refinance online tools just offer another way to shop for deals . For new mortgages , I think having a person you can meet face to face will avoid problems , but for just a simple refi , online is one of the places you should check . Compete your current mortgage company , your bank ( hopefully credit union ) , a local broker or two and the online places . The more competition you have , the more power you have in making a good choice .
end question
start question
Is there any public data available to determine an ETF 's holdings ?
You can check the website for the company that manages the fund . For example , take the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF ( IBB ) . <URL> publishes the <URL> on their website . This information is n't always easy to find or available , but it 's a place to start . For some index funds , you should just be able to look up the index the fund is trying to match . This wo n't be perfect ( take <URL> ; the fund holds 503 stocks , while the S&amp;P 500 index is comprised of exactly 500 ) , but once again , it 's a place to start . A few more points to keep in mind . Remember that many ETF 's , including equity ETF 's , will hold a small portion of their assets in cash or cash-equivalent instruments to assist with rebalancing . For index funds , this may not be reflected in the index itself , and it may not show up in the list of holdings . VOO is an example of this . However , that information is usually available in the fund 's prospectus or the fund 's site . Also , I doubt that many stock ETF 's , at least index funds , change their asset allocations all that frequently . The amounts may change slightly , but depending on the size of their holdings in a given stock , it 's unlikely that the fund 's manager would drop it entirely .
I 'd first put it in CDs or other short term account . Get through school first , then see where you land . If you have income that allows you to start a Roth IRA , I 'd go for that , but keep it safe in case you actually need it back soon . After school , if you do n't land a decent job fast , this money might be needed to live on . How long will it last if you take a few months to find work ? If you do find a good job , moving , and setting up an apartment has a cost . Once you 're there , I 'd refer you to the many " getting started " Q&amp;A s on this site .
The one I 've seen recommended by Clark Howard is <URL> , takes your last name , and the state you want to search in , you can also add first name , but its optional .
Yes , the ADR will trade on a separate exchange from the underlying one , and can ( and does ) see fluctuations in price that do not match the ( exchange corrected ) fluctuations that occur in the original market . You are probably exposing yourself to additional risk that is related to : Financial market volatility Trading patterns in the american market Taxation , trade and other issues that stem from international relations ( imagine an ADR where the foreign country 's relations with the US quickly deteriorate ; it 's USD value may fall in lock-step , dropping to below its native currency value ) Loss of liquidity ( ADRs often tend to be more difficult to sell )
There are two obvious cases in which your return is lower with a heavily leveraged investment . When the interest payments on the loan outweigh the return . If a $ 100,000 investment of your own cash yields $ 1000 that 's a 1 % return . If you put in $ 50,000 of your own money and borrow $ 50,000 at 2 % , you get a 0 % return Whenever returns are negative ( After factoring in the interest as above . ) If you buy an investment for $ 100,000 and it loses $ 1000 , that 's a -1 % return . If you borrow $ 100,000 and buy two investments , and they both lose $ 1000 , that 's a -2 % return .
Just looking at the production cost would n't be anywhere near enough , but I think you are looking at " fundamental analysis " . With fundamental analysis you try to estimate the actual value of a company , compare it to share prices , and buy shares where the fundamental value is higher than the share price , assuming that the market will eventually figure out that the shares are worth more , and then the share price goes up . With " technical analysis " you do n't care what the company is worth , you just look at how the share prices has moved in the past and predict future share prices from that .
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
Although you ca n't invest in an index , you can invest in a fund that basically invests in what the index is made up of . Example : In dealing with an auto index , you could find a fund that buys car companies 's stock . <URL> Although not pertaining to your quetion exactly , you may want to consider buying into <URL> I hope this answers your question .
For the most part , they 're pretty similar . I have never noticed any differences related to MC vs. VISA , most differences are from the banks offering the cards . It does seem that there is a greater acceptance rate for VISA cards internationally . I have also heard that the MC warranty program ( where they extend the manufacturers ' warranty on anything purchased on a MC ) is outstanding . I think VISA has a similar offering though , for their Signature cardholders .
Options Industry Council allows you to input your own data on a 4 leg position : <URL>
In general , if you are paying taxes in Canada , you are eligible to contribute to an RRSP . That said , it still may not be appropriate . If you are only here two years , then you will not accumulate much contribution room . Then once you move away , your options become more limited . Most brokerage accounts in theory require you to be resident in Canada in order to issue instructions - an odd holdover I agree , and one that with internet connections may well not be easy to enforce . I presume you are looking for some kind of tax shelter ? I would suggest you look at the new-ish TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Accounts ) as a possible alternative . Even more specifically , if you are making enough that any of these matter , then consulting with a tax accountant is likely money well spent . They will be much better able to advise you about your specific situation with respect to accounting for taxes between your home country and your temporary status in Canada . Good Luck
In the US , expense ratios are stated in the Prospectus of the fund , which you must acknowledge as having read before the fund will accept your money to invest . You never acknowledged any such thing ? Actually you did when you checked the box saying that you accept the Terms of the Agreement when you made the investment . The expense ratio can be changed by vote of the Board of Directors of the fund but the change must be included in the revised Prospectus of the fund , and current investors must be informed of the change . This can be a direct mailing ( or e-mailing ) from the mutual fund or an invitation to read the new Prospectus on the fund 's website for those who have elected to go paperless . So , yes , the expense ratio can be changed ( though not by the manager of the fund , e.g. just because he/she wants a bigger salary or a fancier company car , as you think ) , and not without notice to investors .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
Balance available is ( Effectively ) your credit limit minus your current balance due and any pending charges . It 's the credit equivalent of your bank account ( positive ) balance : how much could you bill/charge if you wanted to . With a balance available of $ 500 , you could charge something for $ 480 , but you would n't be allowed to charge $ 530 . With a limit of 500 , you might have : or etc. . The available balance also takes into account various credit holds ( like if you go to the gas station , the pay-at-pump puts a $ 100 hold on for a day or two before you pump , to make sure you can cover the actual cost - it will be adjusted down once the reconciliation occurs , and you 'll never be charged interest for it , but it does reduce your balance available . Those holds are often included in " Pending Charges " or similar . You can also have other kinds of available balance - like available for cash advance , etc. - that might be lower .
Every part of the tax law serves a purpose beside raising income . It tries to encourage some behaviors while discouraging others . IRAs and Roth IRAs can be used to save for retirement . They can either save you tax money now , or later . While congress does want people to save for retirement they do n't see a need to provide another tax break for the ' rich ' . The tax break is to encourage people to save , but it is easier for somebody on the upper end of the pay scale to maximize their savings . Limiting some tax breaks also allows them to control the size of the tax break .
No you ca n't buy direct from Toyota . Largely because of many states ' laws ( assuming you 're in the US ) requiring a dealer relationship for car purchasing , read about Tesla 's struggles with direct to customer sales . Secondly because Toyota corporate simply is n't set up to sell a car directly to a customer . I know there are services that help people through the buying process . If you 're finding Toyota dealerships to be this difficult you may consider just buying something from someone who wants to sell to you . If the buying process is this difficult imagine the service relationship . Edit : Additionally , it 's important to remember when financing a car that there are essentially two transactions taking place . First you 're negotiating the price of the car . Then you negotiate the price of the money ( the interest rate ) . The money does not need to come from the dealership , you can secure your financing rate from a separate bank or local credit union . You should definitely pursue alternate financing if they 're quoting you 7.99 % with a FICO of 710 . But do n't tell the dealership you 've already got your financing lined up until you 're happy with the price of the car .
I do n't know of any free API 's for these data , but I 'll provide what information I can . Compiling all of this information from the <URL> system and exposing an interface to it requires a fair amount of work and maintenance , so it 's usually market data companies that have the motivation and resources to provide such interfaces . I know of a few options that may or may not be close to what you 're looking for . The SEC provides <URL> to the EDGAR system . You could download and parse the text files they provide . Yahoo Finance provides summary files of financial statements ( e.g. , <URL> ) as well as links to the full statements in the EDGAR system . Once again , parsing may be your only option for these data . Xignite , a proprietary market data provider , provides a <URL> . If you need these data for a commercial application , you could contact them and work something out . ( Frankly , if you need these data for a commercial application , <URL> ) The <URL> provides data from financial statements . I believe it 's also exposed through several of their API 's . As with most financial data , CRSP is sort of a gold standard , although I have n't personally used their API to fetch data from financial statements , so I ca n't speak for it specifically . <URL> mentions the quantmod R package and <URL> . I ca n't vouch for either of those options personally . Unfortunately , you 'll probably have to do some parsing unless you can find a paid data provider that 's already compiled this information in a machine-readable format .
On a similar quest . One of the lists I check daily are Google Finances lowest Betas bit.ly / GFscreener12 Shows me a handful of companies with healthy financials and each correlated to the market by 0.33 or less , so it does n't have to tank along with the S&amp;P 500 as much . Another using similar criteria but sorted by highest dividend yields : bit.ly / GFscreener11 To try and keep the results little correlated to each other , run that screener once for each of the 12 sectors , for example . Somewhere I used to use a site that measures and graphs direct correlations . Let me find that link and post back . <URL> 's one popular Correlation Tracker . Ah , yes . Remembered the one that 's been my favorite : <URL>
There are ways to mitigate , but since you 're not protected by a tax-deferred/advantaged account , the realized income will be taxed . But you can do any of the followings to reduce the burden : Prefer selling either short positions that are at loss or long positions that are at gain . Do not invest in stocks , but rather in index funds that do the rebalancing for you without ( significant ) tax impact on you . If you are rebalancing portfolio that includes assets that are not stocks ( real-estate , mainly ) consider performing <URL> instead of plain sale and re-purchase . Maximize your IRA contributions , even if non-deductible , and <URL> . Hold your more volatile investments and individual stocks there - you will not be taxed when rebalancing . Maximize your 401K , HSA , SEP-IRA and any other tax-advantaged account you may be eligible for . On some accounts you 'll pay taxes when withdrawing , on others - you wo n't . For example - Roth IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all when withdrawing qualified distributions , while traditional IRA/401k are taxed as ordinary income . During the " low income " years , consider converting portions of traditional accounts to Roth .
You can check the website for the company that manages the fund . For example , take the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF ( IBB ) . <URL> publishes the <URL> on their website . This information is n't always easy to find or available , but it 's a place to start . For some index funds , you should just be able to look up the index the fund is trying to match . This wo n't be perfect ( take <URL> ; the fund holds 503 stocks , while the S&amp;P 500 index is comprised of exactly 500 ) , but once again , it 's a place to start . A few more points to keep in mind . Remember that many ETF 's , including equity ETF 's , will hold a small portion of their assets in cash or cash-equivalent instruments to assist with rebalancing . For index funds , this may not be reflected in the index itself , and it may not show up in the list of holdings . VOO is an example of this . However , that information is usually available in the fund 's prospectus or the fund 's site . Also , I doubt that many stock ETF 's , at least index funds , change their asset allocations all that frequently . The amounts may change slightly , but depending on the size of their holdings in a given stock , it 's unlikely that the fund 's manager would drop it entirely .
end question
start question
How does a public company issue new shares without diluting the value held by existing shareholders ?
Unissued capital is only a token restriction . When a company is incorporated a maximum number of shares is specified in the legal documentation . Most companies will make this an extremely large number so they never face that limitation . See <URL> . You would n't necessarily expect the stock price to change . The reason a company issues new stock is as a way to raise capital . Although new stock is issued , the cash raised by the sale becomes an Asset on the company 's balance sheet . There 's a good worked example in <URL> . Following a rights issue the Liabilities of the company will increase to account for the increase in owner 's equity , but the Assets will also increase by the same amount with the cash received . Whether the stock price changes will depend upon what price the stock is issued at and on the market 's opinions about the company 's growth potential now it has new capital to invest . If the new stock is issued at the same price as the current market price , there 's no particular reason to expect the share price to change . Again Wikipedia has <URL> . When new stock is issued it is usually offered to existing shareholders first , in proportion to their current holding . If the shareholder decides to purchase the new stock in full then their position wo n't be diluted . If they opt not to buy the new stock , they will now own a smaller percentage of the company as their stocks will make up a smaller part of the now larger number of shares .
Accounting principles aside , the way to think about depreciation is to ask " what could I sell it for ? " . The depreciation over a year is the difference between wht it 's worth now and what it is worth in a year . Taking cars as an example , on the day you drive it off the dealer 's lot it becomes a used car , and is worth less than a new car , so it depreciates quite a bit . Assuming you are asking ' will my 2014 car be worth less in a year 's time than a 2015 model bought at the same time ' , the answer is probably yes ( unless it turns out that everyone hates the 2015 model ) . On the other hand , you should be able to get the 2014 model for less than the 2015 model ; so the 2014 model may have depreciated less . From the dealer 's point of view the car has depreciated , since he bought it assuming it could be sold for the full price of a 2014 model , and now he is going to have to sell it at a discount .
No you ca n't buy direct from Toyota . Largely because of many states ' laws ( assuming you 're in the US ) requiring a dealer relationship for car purchasing , read about Tesla 's struggles with direct to customer sales . Secondly because Toyota corporate simply is n't set up to sell a car directly to a customer . I know there are services that help people through the buying process . If you 're finding Toyota dealerships to be this difficult you may consider just buying something from someone who wants to sell to you . If the buying process is this difficult imagine the service relationship . Edit : Additionally , it 's important to remember when financing a car that there are essentially two transactions taking place . First you 're negotiating the price of the car . Then you negotiate the price of the money ( the interest rate ) . The money does not need to come from the dealership , you can secure your financing rate from a separate bank or local credit union . You should definitely pursue alternate financing if they 're quoting you 7.99 % with a FICO of 710 . But do n't tell the dealership you 've already got your financing lined up until you 're happy with the price of the car .
Short answer : check if you can deal in ETFs with your broker . There are some ETFs/ETNs that allow you to swap a fixed amount of USD to EUR without any leverage , or alternatively with 2x leverage . For example , the ETF with ticker ERO fits your request and the following site lists other options as well : <URL> The advantage is that the ETF should have smaller costs than a cash transaction and that you should implicitly get interest on your deposit . The latter is irrelevant at the moment given the current Fed/ECB interest rates . In general , if you plan to hold the currency position longer ( > 6 months ) it can make sense to buy a short duration bond ETF that invests in EUR denominated bonds . That is usually a simple and effective way to get exposure to another currency . However , given the risk of government defaults in Europe and the low interest rate at the moment I would not bother with it . Corporate bonds may be an option if you are more adventurous . Finally , buying foreign currency ( FX ) as cash either physically at a bank or via a bank transfer usually involves higher costs than ETFs . Do not get fooled by banks claiming they charge " no commissions " . They will use the exchange rates to hide all fees , and fees often are 5 % -10 % of the exchanged sum . Cost is best measured by a round-turn : exchange USD to EUR and immediately change EUR back to USD . You get less USD back than you original had , and can calculate the costs as a percentage of the original sum . Alternatively you could compare the offered rate with the current mid price quoted on an FX site , or ask for the bid and ask price , and calculate the spread manually . For example , at xe.com they quote me 5000 $ for 3585EUR , and 3585EUR back to 4714 $ . The loss is roughly 5.7 % , which is the spread between bid and ask . You get a better rates for larger sums and during business hours , and worse rates if the currency is not a G7 currency . The best rates I have seen with internet FX brokers were about 2-3 % . No matter what , if you deal in cash FX you also need a EUR account . Many of the big banks in the US will offer you foreign currency accounts , but they also tend to charge you fees for running it . The cheapest option is frequently to have an account locally in another country . However , banks often wo n't open an account for non-residents . I think there are also strict reporting and tax forms to fill out as US citizens if you open accounts abroad .
This is typically referred to as the " market value " of your holdings -- it is the revenue you would generate if you sold your holdings at that moment ( less any transaction costs , of course )
There is no maximum . The only stipulation other than contribution limits is that you must take withdrawals at age 701/2 .
It depends how you do it . If you roll it from your 401k directly to a Roth then you will have to pay the taxes . The contributions to the 401k are tax deferred . Meaning you do not owe taxes on the money until you collect it . Roth contributions are post tax but the gains are not taxed so long as they are disbursed under acceptable conditions according to the regulations . If you roll it directly from the 401k to a regular tax deferred IRA you should be able to do that with out penalties or taxes . You will still have to pay the taxes at disbursement . If you have the money disbursed to you directly then you will have to pay the penalties , fees , and taxes . Your contributions to an IRA will then be subject to limitations based on the IRA . It will literally be exactly like you are taking money from your pocket to invest in the IRA . Your company should give you the option of a rollover check . This check will be made out to you but it will not be able to be deposited in a regular account or cashed . It will only be redeemable for deposit into a retirement account that meets the regulatory requirements of the 401k rollover criteria . I believe the check I received a few years ago was only good for 60 days . I recall that after 60 days that check was void and I would receive a standard disbursement and would be subject to fees and penalties . I am not sure if that was the policy of T.Rowe Price or if that is part of the regulation .
As others have mentioned , it 's important that there is a fair assessment of the market value of the items being donated . Joel 's point about the government not looking kindly upon overvalued donations also applies in Canada : the CRA does n't look kindly upon <URL> such as " buy-low , donate-high arrangements . " Since nobody has offered up authoritative information for Canada yet , here 's something to look at : <URL> Excerpts : 3 ) Gifts in kind of a taxpayer include capital property , depreciable property , personal-use property ... [ ... ] 6 ) The fair market value of a gift in kind as of the date of the donation ( the date on which beneficial ownership is transferred from the donor to the donee ) must be determined before an amount can be recorded on a receipt for tax purposes . [ ... ] The person who determines the fair market value of the property must be competent and qualified to evaluate the particular property being transferred by way of a gift . Property of little or only nominal value to the donor will not qualify as a gift in kind . Used clothing of little value would be an example of a non-qualifying contribution . You will need to find a charity that would both value the books you would be donating and be willing to issue you a receipt for your charitable donation . Whatever receipt they issue should be in line with fair market value of the goods donated . Assume your donation receipt will be challenged , and keep both : An inventory of what you donated ( pictures might help ) , and Supporting documentation used in helping assess the fair market value of the goods ; the CRA might not accept a verbal " I checked eBay " . Finally , reasonable comparables might be prices for similar used goods , not a percentage of new . Though , if you ca n't find a price for a particular title in the used market , an estimate consistent with other valuations in the lot would be better than nothing , perhaps .
Employers ' match does n't count towards your annual limit ( the $ 17500 this year ) , but it does count towards the overall limit ( $ 51K this year ) . For details on these limits see <URL> .
As far as I know , the answer to this is generally " no . " The closest thing would be to identify the stock transfer company representing the company that you want to hold and buy through them . ( I have held this way , but I do n't know if it 's available on all stocks . ) This eliminates the broker , but there 's still a " middle man " in the transfer company . Note this section from the <URL> Wikipedia article : A public company usually only designates one company to transfer its stock . Stock transfer agents also run annual meetings as inspector of elections , proxy voting , and special meetings of shareholders . They are considered the official keeper of the corporate shareholder records . The decision to have a single transfer company is a practical one , ensuring that there is one entity responsible for recording this data - Hence even if you could buy stock " directly " from the company that you want to own , it would likely still get routed through the transfer company for recording .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
It means that the company earned 15 cents per share in the most recently reported quarter . Share price may or not be affected , depending on how buyers and sellers value the company . Just because profits " jumped , " does not mean the shares will follow suit . An increase in profits may have already been priced into the stock , or the market expected the increase in profit to be even higher . As the shareholder , you do n't actually get any of these profits into your hands , unless the company pays out a portion of these profits as a dividend .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
If you have an AMEX from another country , you can get an AMEX in the US . American Express has a separate system that is not as strongly country-dependent as , say , VISA and MasterCard . Equifax operates in both Canada and the United States , so if you 're from Canada you can ask the bank to get your credit score through Equifax . Not a lot of people know about this but it can be done , so be persistent if they say it ca n't . This may be possible with other credit reporting agencies as well . If you have proof of income and some cash , most banks will let you get a card . They let teenagers with no credit get a card !
Unissued capital is only a token restriction . When a company is incorporated a maximum number of shares is specified in the legal documentation . Most companies will make this an extremely large number so they never face that limitation . See <URL> . You would n't necessarily expect the stock price to change . The reason a company issues new stock is as a way to raise capital . Although new stock is issued , the cash raised by the sale becomes an Asset on the company 's balance sheet . There 's a good worked example in <URL> . Following a rights issue the Liabilities of the company will increase to account for the increase in owner 's equity , but the Assets will also increase by the same amount with the cash received . Whether the stock price changes will depend upon what price the stock is issued at and on the market 's opinions about the company 's growth potential now it has new capital to invest . If the new stock is issued at the same price as the current market price , there 's no particular reason to expect the share price to change . Again Wikipedia has <URL> . When new stock is issued it is usually offered to existing shareholders first , in proportion to their current holding . If the shareholder decides to purchase the new stock in full then their position wo n't be diluted . If they opt not to buy the new stock , they will now own a smaller percentage of the company as their stocks will make up a smaller part of the now larger number of shares .
The company does n't necessarily have to go public . They can also be worth money if the company is acquired . Also keep in mind that even if the company does eventually go public , your shares can essentially be wiped out by a round of pre-IPO funding that gives the company a low valuation . You could ask : what is the size of the employee pool ? how many classes are outstanding ? was the last round up or down ? what is the mechanism to exercise your options ? can you exercise whenever you want ?
So , there is no way I ( or anyone ) can provide an exact answer . Policies for approval are somewhat obfuscated by the companies and also change widely on the market and by company . But as a general statement , employment and income are largely self reported and your credit score is good . I think 30 days after hire would be more than enough . At this point in your life they are more interested in the consumer loyalty of a gainful employed young person than the small chance you might lose your job or lie about your income . They might not give you a high limit , but I suspect it would be approved if applied . And it is probably best to establish your larger limit sooner rather than later .
Well , in math terms , it 's the reciprocal . A 20 % drop ( 80 % of original value ) needs a 25 % increase to break even . .8 and 1.25 are reciprocals .
At your income , I would guess that you will not be able to get a monthly payment low enough to stretch your loan out for longer than 10 years . However , even if you could , I would not recommend the loan forgiveness program for you . I realize that $ 28k sounds like a lot of money , and it would be nice if you did n't have to pay it . However , the PSLF program lasts 10 years before you see any benefit . You and your wife have a high income , and you should be able to pay off this loan much , much quicker than 10 years . ( One or two years should be your goal . ) The quicker you pay it off , the less interest you will pay . If you decide to pursue the PSLF program , you will be stuck in your current job for the next 10 years . You did n't specify what your monthly payment is , or what the current length of the loan is , but let 's look at a few scenarios . Let 's say that you were somehow able to get by with interest-only payments on the loan for the next 10 years . ( I do n't think this is possible . ) In this scenario , you would be paying $ 140 per month , $ 1680 per year , or almost $ 17k over the next 10 years , and you will remain $ 28k in debt until you complete 10 years at your job , when you 'll get the debt forgiven . Let 's say instead that you arrange a $ 200 per month payment . ( At your income , I do n't think you 'll be able to obtain a monthly payment this low . ) Without the PSLF , this would pay off the loan in 20 years . You would be paying $ 2400 per year , or $ 24k over the next 10 years , and at the end of the program you 'd still have over $ 18k of principal that would need to be forgiven . With both of these situations , it is true that you end the program with significant loan forgiveness . However , you are still paying a lot , and since most of it is interest , you still remain at a very high debt burden . If you need to leave your job for any reason , it will be a tremendously costly decision . Instead , let 's say that you decide to skip the PSLF program , and just pay it off as quickly as possible . If you pay $ 1250 per month , you 'd have the loan completely paid off in 24 months , paying a total of under $ 29.8 k , meaning that you will have paid less than $ 1800 in total interest . Summary : Scenario 1 : $ 140 per month , $ 17k total cost , 10-year commitment ( not really possible ) Scenario 2 : $ 200 per month , $ 24k total cost , 10-year commitment Scenario 3 : $ 1250 per month , $ 30k total cost , No commitment , 2-year payoff The idea behind the PSLF program is to provide relief for people with a very high student loan debt and reward them for taking a low-paying public service job . You , however , have a great income , and can afford to pay it off early . If I were you , I would not want to make the 10-year commitment to a job just to save at most $ 6k ( probably less ) .
end question
start question
Can I borrow against my IRA to pay off debt or pay for a car ?
No . Borrowing is not allowed , but if you take a withdrawal , you have 60 days to deposit into another IRA account . This effectively creates a 60 day loan . Not what you 're really looking for . If you take this withdrawal and re-deposit to new account within 60 days , no problem . If not , you owe tax on the untaxed amount as well as a 10 % penalty . This comes from IRS ' Publication 590 , I have the document memorized by substance , not page number .
Short answer : Probably not . It would cost too much to administer the mortgage . It would be easier to increase your existing mortgage with a financial institution and role your line of credit into the mortgage . The exception : If you own a home that has a mortgage with less than 75 % of the value of the home left on it and you have an RRSP with more than $ 30,000 this might be an option . In theory getting a mortgage from your RRSP might sound like a good idea and technically you can take out a mortgage from your RRSP on a house you are going to buy or on a house you already own . However , the fees associated with <URL> ( 100-300 / year ) , and the <URL> ( mandatory if you are lending to yourself and ranging from .5 to 2 % annually ) usually outweigh the benefits gained . The break even point of taking out an RRSP mortgage is around 30,000 $ , the mortgage must be administered by a trustee approved under the National Housing Act ( TD Waterhouse , Canadian Western Trust , ect ) , and must be held in a self directed RRSP . These qualifications make RRSP mortgages useful only in very specific situations .
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
No . And No . If it 's purely pretax money , the growth is tax deferred , and when the money is withdrawn , it 's all taxed at your then marginal rate . For now , it 's not part of the annual reporting .
I 'm a little confused on the use of the property today . Is this place going to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental later ( after the mortgage is paid off ) ? It does make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost less than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put as little of your own cash into it as possible and stretch the terms as long as possible . Scott W is correct on a number of counts . The " cost " of the mortgage is the after tax cost of the payments and when that money is put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do better over the long haul . Do n't try for big gains because doing so adds to the risk that you 'll end up worse off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after taxes ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthiest people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgages , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % is an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it adds up to $ 180k after 20 years ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account is accessible when you need it . Money in home equity is not , has a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and is not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home is close to paid off but is n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You are looking at a crappy investment . It is cheaper and better just to rent . I do n't care if prices are going up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada has n't seen the value drops like in the US so far does n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rents do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then prices are frothy and can not be trusted and you should lower your monthly costs by renting rather than buying . That $ 350 per month you could save in " rent " adds up just as much as the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rentals , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or higher ( rate of return after taxes , insurance and other fixed costs ) . That way if the rental rates drop ( and again that is quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there is a high probability that you could wind up losing money as rents fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody is going to say , " But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . " That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have clients buying property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who are finding 10 % CAP rate properties . They do exist . They just are n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understanding the risks . He who lives by the leverage sword , dies by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market is littered with corpses of people who thought they could handle that leverage sword . It is a gory , ugly mess .
Of course you do n't have to pay them - you just might not like the result . As a matter of law - given that I am not a lawyer - I am not aware of any requirement for a company to pay employees business-related expenses . An example might be having a cell phone , and <URL> even if they require you have one and use it as part of your employment . The primary areas where law does exist relates to company uniforms with a logo ( in a very limited number of US states ) and necessary personal safety equipment ( in California and maybe only few other states ) . All other tool requirements for a job are not prohibited by law , so long as they are not illegally discriminatory ( such as requiring people of a certain race or sex to buy something but no one else , etc ) . So a company can require all sorts of things , from having an internet connection to cell phone to laptop to specialty tools and equipment of all sorts , and they are even allowed to deduct the cost of some things from your pay - just so long as you still get paid minimum wage after the deductions . With all that said , the company 's previous payments of fees and willingness to pay a monthly internet fee does not obligate them to pay other fees too , such as moving/installation/etc . They may even decide to no longer provide internet service at their expense and just require you to provide it as a condition of employment . You can insist on it with your employer , and if you do n't have an employment contract that forbids it they can fire you or possibly even deduct it from your pay anyway ( and this reason might not be one that allows you to collect unemployment insurance benefits - but you 'd need to check with an expert on that ) . You can refuse to pay AT&amp;T directly , and they can cancel the internet service - and your employer can then do the same as in the previous condition . Or you can choose to pay it - or ask your employer to split the cost over a few checks if it is rather high - and that 's about it . Like the cost of anything else you have to pay - from your own food to your computer , clothes , etc - it 's best to just consider it your own " cost of doing business " and decide if it 's still in your interest to keep working there , and for something to consider in future pay negotiations ! You may also qualify for an itemized <URL> deduction from the IRS , but you 'll need to read the requirements carefully and get/keep a receipt for such expenses .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
Credit card , without a doubt . The reason is dispute resolution . If you dispute a charge on debit card - the money has left your account already , and if the dispute was accepted - you 'll get it back . If . Eventually . In the mean time your overdraft will be missing $ $ $ . For credit cards , you can catch a fraud action before the money actually leaves your pocket and dispute it then . In this case the charge is set aside , and you will only be required to actually pay if the dispute is rejected . I.e. : The money stays in your pocket , until the business proves that the charge is legit . In both cases , if the dispute is justified ( i.e. : there was indeed a fraud ) neither you nor the bank will lose money at the bottom line , it 's just who 's got the money during the dispute resolution process ( which may be lengthy ) that matters .
You should n't liquidate a strong investment purely because it 's denominated in the same currency . You do n't want to look at the worsening CAD-USD conversion , but the fees charged by the broker . The worsening rate just means that your USD investments are a slightly bigger proportion of your overall assets . And if you expect the CAD-USD to continue the trend , then selling out USD means you are selling an appreciating investment . You should use the assets that you expect to give you the least return in the future , such as uninvested cash ( if any ) . You 're really looking at two questions : ( 1 ) should we pay off the loan now or make regular payments , and ( 2 ) if paying it off , should we liquidate the US index fund to do it ? The analysis for whether to pay it off is how you expect the costs to rise in the future ( conversion rate , loan interest ) versus the opportunity cost of paying it off ( the ROI you could 've gotten with the money if you did n't pay your loan , plus the flexibility and convenience of having the assets in the interim ) . If you decide to pay off now , then deciding which assets to use should turn more on their expected future performance than the conversion rate . If USD is going to continue rising relative to CAD , then do n't sell USD investments .
Looking purely at the numbers , it will cost you $ 200/month to lease a Hyundai Accent . That 's a cost of $ 2400/year . If you hold on to your Mazda Protege for another year , it costs you $ 1000 . Now , you say you need new winter tyres . So , your questions are twofold : 1 . How much will winter tyres cost ? 2 . How much will these tyres add to the value of your Protege , when it comes to selling them ? Assuming the answers are " less than $ 1400 " and " $ 0 " , it makes more financial sense to hold on to your Protege for one more year . Of course , there are other considerations . A new vehicle is likely to be more reliable , while your Protege may break down over the next year . And most people would recommend you buy rather than lease a vehicle . Or you may want to consider selling the Protege and picking up a second-hand vehicle rather than buying or leasing a new car .
As a new graduate , aside from the fact that you seem to have the extra $ 193/mo to pay more towards your loan , we do n't know anything else . I wrote a lengthy article on this in response to a friend who had a loan , but was also pondering a home purchase in the future . <URL> discusses the math behind one 's ability to put a downpayment on a house vs having that monthly cash to pay towards the mortgage . In your case , the question is whether , in 5 years , the $ 8500 would be best spent as a home down payment or to pay off the 6.8 % loan . If you specifically had plans toward home ownership , the timing of that plan would affect my answer here , as I discuss in the article . The right answer to your question can only come by knowing far more of your personal situation . Does your employer offer a matched 401 ( k ) ( or other matched retirement account if you are not in the US ) , and are you depositing the full amount to capture that match ? It makes little sense to set aside funds to pay off a 6.8 % loan if you are leaving a 50 or 100 % match on the table . Do you have any other high interest debt ? 18 % card takes priority over this loan . What is the nature of your current savings and rate of savings ? An emergency fund or funds that would take care of unexpected expenses , including bridging the gap during a time of unemployment is an important first step for the new grad . Start by hitting the first $ 1000 , $ 2000 , etc. . But ultimately , you want X months worth of expenses to have a true safety net . Meanwhile , the plan comes at a cost . Your plan will get rid of the loan in about 5 years , but if you simply double up the payments , advising the servicing company to apply the extra to principal , it would drop to just a couple month over over 4 . As you read more about personal finance , you 'll find a lot of different views . Some people are fixated on having zero debt , others will focus on liquidity . In the end , you need to understand each approach and decide what 's right for you .
You should pay for grad school without taking loans if your circumstances permit . There is the possibility of a tax write off for interest paid on student loans , but <URL> and it 's very much a " give me $ 10 , and I 'll give you $ 5 back " kind of deal . You 're better off not borrowing the money to begin with , even though I tend to think that borrowing for things which appreciate -- e.g. , a house -- or which can significantly increase your earning capability -- e.g. , the right kind of graduate school -- is generally better/wiser/more permissible than borrowing for something which depreciates , like a car . Having no student loan debt after graduation means you have greater freedom than someone who is laboring to pay student loan debt in addition to all of their other bills . My $ 0.02
No , in the UK you do n't need to pay tax on gifts in general . In theory there could be an <URL> issue . But it 's highly unlikely to apply here . It could only apply at all if all of the below apply : you are n't married to each other you die within 7 years of a gift the total of the money you leave at death plus the gifts in the past 7 years is more than the inheritance tax threshold , currently # 325,000 But even then the allowance would probably count as a " <URL> " and so would be ignored completely : Regular gifts from the giver 's income There 's no Inheritance Tax on gifts from the deceased 's income ( after they paid tax ) as long as the deceased had enough money to maintain their normal lifestyle .
If you want to subcontract some of your excess work to somebody else , you better be in business ! While some kinds of employees ( e.g. commissioned salespeople ) are permitted to deduct some expenses on their income tax , generally only a real business can deduct wages for additional employees , or the cost of services provided by subcontractors . Do you invoice your clients and charge <URL> ? Or do you tell your clients each pay period how many hours you worked and they compensate you through their payroll system like everybody else that walks through the door ? If you 're not invoicing and charging HST ( GST ) ( assuming you exceed the <URL> , and if you have too much work , you probably do ! ) , then perhaps your clients are treating you as an employee -- by default -- and withholding taxes , CPP , and EI so they do n't get in trouble ? After all , Canada Revenue Agency is likely to consider any person providing a service to a company to be an employee unless there is sufficient evidence to the contrary , and when there is n't enough evidence , it 's the company paying for the services that would be <URL> . Carefully consider what <URL> you are operating , or were intending to operate . It 's essential for your business to be structured appropriately if you want to hire or subcontract . You ought to be either self-employed as a sole proprietor , or perhaps incorporated if it makes more sense to your situation . Next , act accordingly . For instance , it 's likely that your business should be taking care of the source deductions , CPP , and EI . In fact , self-employed individuals should n't even be paying into EI -- an independent contractor would n't qualify to make an EI claim if they lost a contract . As an independent , one does n't have a job , one has a business , and EI does n't cover the business itself , only the employees that the business deals with at arm 's length . As a business owner , you would be considered non-arms-length , and exempt from EI . Growing your business in the way that you are suggesting is an important enough a step that you should seek professional advice in advance . Find a good accountant that deals with self-employed individuals &amp; small businesses and run all this by him . He should be able to guide you accordingly . Find a lawyer , too . A lawyer can guide you on how to properly subcontract others while protecting you and your business . Finally , be mindful of what it is you agreed to in your contract with your client : Do they expect all services to be performed by you , personally ? Even if it was n't written down who exactly would be performing the services , there may be an assumption it 's you . Some negotiation may be in order if you want to use subcontractors .
The underlying investment is usually somewhat independent of your mortgage , since it encompasses a bundle of mortgages , and not only yours . It works similarly to a fund . When , you pay off the old mortgage while re-financing , the fund receives the outstanding debt in from of cash , which can be used to buy new mortgages .
You should pay things off every month . You do n't want to be paying 10 % -25 % interest if you do n't have to . If you regularly use you card , the credit agencies ca n't tell the difference . The way it works is that every month , they send the credit agencies your current balance and if you paid the last bill on time . There is nothing that indicates if this is a standing balance , or if you charged all of it since the last payment . Any business that you legitimately owe a debt to can report that to the credit agencies . Not all of them do . This includes utilities , cell phone companies , landlords , etc. . If any of them report overdue items it will show up on your credit report , and your credit card company can use that to raise you interest rate . Some cards will automatically raise you credit limit . They are basically looking to make money fro you . If you often charge near the limit , and pay the minimum balance each month , they may raise your limit to get you to charge more , and pay more interest . You can also call them and ask . They have some internal rules to decide if , based on your history with them and your credit history , if you are a good risk .
2.47 % is a really , really good rate , doubly so if it 's a fixed rate , and quadruply so if the interest is tax-deductible . That 's about as close to " free money " as you 're ever going to get . Heck , depending on what inflation does over the next few years , it might even be cheaper than free . So if you have the risk tolerance for it , it 's probably more effective to invest the money in the stock market than to accelerate your student loan payoff . You can even do better in the bond market ( my go-to intermediate-term corporate bond fund is yielding nearly 4 % right now . ) Just remember the old banker 's aphorism : Assets shrink . Liabilities never shrink . You can lose the money you 've invested in stocks or bonds , and you 'll still have to pay back the loan . And , when in doubt , you can usually assume you 're underestimating your risks . If you 're feeling up for it , I 'd say : make sure you have a good emergency fund outside of your investment money - something you could live on for six months or so and pay your bills while looking for a job , and sock the rest into something like the <URL> or a similar instrument ( Vanguard 's just my personal preference , since I like their style - and by style , I mean low fees - but definitely feel free to consider alternatives ) . You could also pad your retirement accounts and avoid taxes on any gains instead , but remember that it 's easier to put money into those than take it out , so be sure to double-check the state of your emergency fund .
Paying off your student loan before buying a house is certainly a great risk reduction move for you . It will lower your debt to income ratio allowing your mortgage approval to go easier and it will free up more of your dollars to pay for the many miscellaneous projects that come with buying a house . I think that if you are considering paying off your student loan before buying a house that means that your student loans are an amount you can fathom paying off and that you are motivated to be rid of your student loan debt . Go for it and pay off your student loan .
In the United States taxes on the sale of a principal residence are based on the difference between the sale price and the cost of the home . Assuming you meet the requirements you can shelter 250,000 or 500,000 of gains from the sale of your principal residence . This calculation is not related to the loan balance . The basic equation is sales price minus purchase price . It get a little more complex because some costs to purchase and sell the home are included in the calculation , or if you made renovations to the house that will increase your costs and decrease your gains . Trying to decrease the loan balance just before selling the house would just be paying yourself that money at the settlement table . It could save you some money on interest between now and settlement but emptying your bank account to save a few bucks does n't seem worth it . I would also prefer to have the money in the bank to pay for some expenses that will popup getting the house sold , you moving , and the settlement date .
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
end question
start question
How do I evaluate reasonability of home improvement projects ?
If you 're looking for some formula , I do n't think one exists . People talk about this all the time and give conflicting advice . If there was a proven-accurate formula , they would n't be debating it . There are basically 3 reasons to do a home improvement project : ( a ) Correct a problem so that you prevent on-going damage to your home . For example , have a leaking roof patched or replaced , or exterminate termites . Such a job is worthwhile if the cost of fixing the problem is less than the cost of future damage . In the case of my termite and leaking roof examples , this is almost always worth doing . Lesser maintenance problems might be more debatable . Similarly , some improvements may reduce expenses . Like replacing an old furnace with a newer model may cut your heating bills . Here the question is : how long does it take to repay the investment , compared to other things you might invest your money in . Just to make up numbers : Suppose you find that a new furnace will save you $ 500 per year . If the new furnace costs $ 2000 , then it will take 4 years to pay for itself . I 'd consider that a good investment . If that same $ 2000 furnace will only cut your heating bills by $ 100 per year , then it will take 20 years to pay for itself . You 'd probably be better off putting the $ 2000 into the stock market and using the gains to help pay your heating bill . ( b ) Increase the resale value of your home . If you are paying someone else to do the work , the harsh reality here is : Almost no job will increase the resale value by more than the cost of getting the job done . I 've seen many articles over the years citing studies on this . I think most conclude that kitchen remodeling comes closet to paying for itself , and bathrooms come next . New windows are also up there . I do n't have studies to prove this , but my guesses would be : Replacing something that is basically nice with a different style will rarely pay for itself . Like , replacing oak cabinets with cherry cabinets . Replacing something that is in terrible shape with something decent is more likely to pay back than replacing something decent with something beautiful . Like if you have an old iron bathtub that 's rusting and falling apart , replacing it may pay off . If you have a 5-year-old bathtub that 's in good shape but is not premium , top of the line , replacing it with a premium bathtub will probably do very little for resale value . If you can do a lot of the work yourself , the story changes . Many home improvement jobs do n't require a lot of materials , but do require a lot of work . If you do the labor , you can often get the job done very cheaply , and it 's likely that the increase in resale value will be more than what you spend . For example , most of my house has hardwood floors . Lots of people like pretty hardwood floors . I just restained the floors in two rooms . It cost me , I do n't know , maybe $ 20 or $ 30 for stain and some brushes . I 'm sure if I tried to sell the house tomorrow I 'd get my twenty bucks back in higher sale value . Realtors often advise sellers to paint . Again , if you do it yourself , the cost of paint may be a hundred dollars , and it can increase the sale price of the house by thousands . Of course if you do the work yourself , you have to consider the value of your time . ( c ) To make your home more pleasant to live in . This is totally subjective . You have to make the decision on the same basis that you decide whether anything that is not essential to survival is worth buying . To some people , a bottle of fancy imported wine is worth thousands , even millions , of dollars . Others ca n't tell the difference between a $ 10,000 wine and a $ 15 wine . The thing to ask yourself is , How important is this home improvement to me , compared to other things I could do with the money ? Like , suppose you 're considering spending $ 20,000 remodeling your kitchen . What else could you do with $ 20,000 ? You could buy a car , go on an elaborate vacation , eat out several times a week for years , retire a little earlier , etc. . No one can tell you how much something is worth to you . Any given home improvement may involve a combination of these factors . Like say you 're considering that $ 20,000 kitchen remodeling . Say you somehow find out that this will increase the resale value by $ 15,000 . If the only reason you were considering it was to increase resale value , then it 's not worth it -- you 'd lose $ 5,000 . But if you also want the nicer kitchen , then it is fair to say , Okay , it will cost me $ 20,000 , but ultimately I 'll get $ 15,000 of that back . So in the long run it will only cost me $ 5,000 . Is having a nicer kitchen worth $ 5,000 to me ? Note , by the way , that resale value only matters if and when you sell the house . If you expect to stay in this house for 20 years , any improvements done are VERY long-term investments . If you live in it until you die , the resale value may matter to your heirs .
I would not recommend borrowing your 401 ( k ) money to buy a house for two reasons : When you borrow money from your 401 ( k ) , it is no longer invested . Yes , you pay yourself interest , but you miss out on the investment gains for the life of the loan . If you leave your job , the loan is due in full shortly thereafter . If you do not pay it back , you are hit with taxes and penalties . If I were you , I would roll it over into an IRA for the reasons you mentioned .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
There are certain companies that will let you pay a flat fee per month instead of billing you for consumption . You should call your providers and ask them if they have such an option available ; this way budgeting will be easy . :)
It 's not compound interest . It is internal rate of return . If you have access to Excel look up the XIRR built-in function .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
The address on your tax return is where they will send correspondence , including refund checks . If you do n't want to use either your old U.S. address or your current foreign address as a permanent mailing address , you might want to use a mailing service , or a friend/family member that you trust . Occasionally the IRS or a state will question your residency based on the address used , though the IRS might figure it out if you file Form 2555 to claim the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion . Some states will wonder why you 're not filing resident returns if the mailing address for you is in that state . If that happens , ( 1 ) make sure it 's not a domicile state and you really are n't a resident , and ( 2 ) send them a letter saying that you are living overseas and that the address they have is only your mailing address , and give them your foreign residence address .
To give up your Social Security number , you would probably have to renounce your citizenship , since merely leaving the United States , becoming a permanent expatriate , etc. would n't be enough . Paying Social Security taxes is mandatory , however . Even if your income exceeds the means testing limits , you are still required to pay Social security ( FICA ) taxes on the income that falls beneath it . That being said , there are several groups that are exempt from paying Social Security taxes , based on what I can scrounge up through online searching . College students who work under the Federal Work Study program . <URL> State or local government workers ( like teachers , city workers , police , firefighters , etc. ) hired before March 31 , 1986 and who participate in their employers ' alternative retirement systems . Self-employed workers with with yearly net earnings less than $ 400 Ministers , members of certain religious orders , and Christian Science practitioners may file <URL> to exempt themselves from self-employment taxes , including FICA taxes . The picture is more complicated than this , however ( see below ) . All members of certain religious groups , like the Amish , Mennonites , etc. . <URL> Election workers earning $ 1,000 or less a year . Minor children with earnings from household work but for whom household work is not their principal occupation . If you are n't part of one of these groups or you joined them after already being enrolled in the Social Security system ( i.e. paid FICA taxes , etc. ) , you do n't have to take Social Security payments , but you are not exempt from FICA payroll taxes . This means that you ca n't simply become Amish and be exempt if you 've already paid into the system . Many of these answers were listed <URL> , but the only stated source is " Wikipedia , " so take it with a grain of salt . I 've tried to provide other sources where I could . Ministers/religious officials I mentioned that the situation with ministers and/or religious officials is more complicated . Among other things , these officials need to certify that they are religiously opposed to receiving public insurance benefits and they have to file by a certain deadline soon after earning a certain amount as a minister . <URL> , if you file this exemption and choose/chose to revoke it later on , e.g. by filing IRS Form 2031 , during the short time windows when this is possible , you 're no longer eligible to file for another exemption . Once you revoke your exemption , you wo n't get another one . Also note that this opt-out only applies to income earned as part of your ministry . For non-ministerial income , you 're still required to pay FICA taxes even if you follow the procedure ( s ) above . If you do opt-out Clearly , opting out of the Social Security is n't easy , or even feasible , for many people , but if you are outside the system , common sense dictates that you should insure yourself against risks that would usually be covered , at least in part , by Social Security . Dave Ramsey maintains a <URL> that he recommends ministers and religious officials who opt out of the Social Security system should purchase , but the rationale applies to anyone who is n't part of the system . Term life insurance that covers 10x your annual income . Normally , your spouse or dependents will receive a <URL> upon your death , but if you opt-out , your family does n't have this option . Since the death benefit is a pittance ( $ 255 ) , however , you may want life insurance regardless of your participation in Social Security . Long-term disability insurance . If you become disabled , you wo n't receive disability benefits , so you 'll may want insurance to cover this risk . Long-term care insurance . Similar to disability insurance , you may want additional income to cover you in case you require long-term care , and <URL> is n't enough . Other retirement savings . If you 're not going to be paying money into Social Security , it makes sense to invest that money in some form of tax-advantaged or tax-sheltered retirement account to ensure that you still have some income in retirement . You wo n't be receiving Social Security checks , but you 'll still need income . Depending on your circumstances , it 's may be a good idea to invest in some or all of these instruments anyway ( especially tax-advantaged/tax-sheltered retirement accounts ) , because Social Security does n't cover 100 % of the risks you 'll face , but that decision is highly specific to each person/family .
You do n't need to notify the IRS of new members , the IRS does n't care ( at this stage ) . What you do need , if you have a EIN for a single-member LLC , is <URL> since your LLC is now a partnership ( a different entity , from IRS perspective ) . From now on , you 'll need to file form 1065 with the IRS in case of business related income , on which you will declare the membership distribution interests on Schedules K-1 for each member .
As an individual freelancer , you would need to maintain a book of accounts . This should show all the income you are getting , and should also list all the payments incurred . This can not only include the payments to other professionals , but also any hardware purchased , phone bills , any travel and entertainment bills directly related to the service you are offering . Once you arrive at a net profit figure , you would need to file this as your income . Consult a tax professional and he can help with how to keep the records of income and expenses . i.e. . You would need to create invoices for payments , use checks or online transfers for most payments , segregate the accounts , one account used for this professional stuff , and another for your personal stuff , etc. . In a normal course the Income Tax Department does not ask for these records , however whenever your tax returns get scrutinized on a random basis , they would ask for all the relevant documentations .
This is referred to as a Mistaken Distribution . An HSA mistaken distribution occurs when you take a distribution and later find out that it is not for a qualified medical expense . For example , this could occur if you accidentally pay for a restaurant dinner with your HSA debit card . It can also occur if you take a distribution to pay for a medical expense , but then are later reimbursed by insurance . This is discussed in the <URL> . ( Note : these forms are submitted by the HSA bank , not the consumer , so the instructions are addressed to them . ) HSA mistaken distributions . If amounts were distributed during the year from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause , the account beneficiary may repay the mistaken distribution no later than April 15 following the first year the account beneficiary knew or should have known the distribution was a mistake . For example , the account beneficiary reasonably , but mistakenly , believed that an expense was a qualified medical expense and was reimbursed for that expense from the HSA . The account beneficiary then repays the mistaken distribution to the HSA . You have until April 15 in the year following the refund to repay the HSA and avoid the extra tax and penalty that should be paid if you were to keep the distribution that was not ultimately used for medical expenses . When you send the money to the HSA bank , you need to explicitly tell them that it is a mistaken distribution repayment , so that they can report it to the IRS correctly and it will not affect your contribution limits .
Your current interest on the car loan is about $ 68 a month . The penalty is only $ 12 . You should put as much on the car loan as you can until you get the interest payment down to $ 12 . I threw it into a spreadsheet and found that number to be the last nine payments , when the principal is around $ 2200 remaining . For those final payments , you 're better off paying the interest than the penalty . If you add in the rate on the mortgage , it changes things a bit . If you switch to overpaying the mortgage when you have $ 5500 left on the car , the penalty becomes more than the difference in the interest rates . So you may be better off with keeping the whole gain of the lower rate rather than the penalty reduced on the car loan . Technically we should also consider the Net Present Value of the penalties . $ 12 two years from now is worth less than $ 12 now . But it 's not a lot less , so I 'm just ignoring it . Including it would slightly favor paying the car loan early . Note that my spreadsheet is a rough calculation based on a monthly payment of $ 273.86 . They may give you better information in your receipt . Also , check with them if you can reduce your payment to reduce the penalties . If you can pay $ 1300 a month now and pay $ 15 a month for the last four years of the loan , that would be even better from your perspective . But they may not allow that nor similar alternatives . If you can only <URL> once on the mortgage , I 'm not sure that I 'd pick this as the time to do it . I 'd prefer to save it for an emergency . And if you would have to pay fees , it 's probably not worth it even if you could redraw as often as you want . If you pay $ 7000 of the car loan immediately , that saves you six months of payments and about $ 200 in interest . Reduce the interest savings by $ 72 for added penalties . That 's only $ 130 in savings from using the redraw . In the past six months , you overpaid the car loan by about $ 1300 and the mortgage by $ 7000 . Just keep overpaying $ 5000 over the next four months and put it all on the car loan . You 'll have it down to the point where the penalty starts to hurt . Then switch the overpayment to the mortgage and pay the minimum on the car loan until it finishes . That 's simpler than anything involving the redraw and still gets you good savings . I said this above but will repeat it here . The goal is to pay the car loan down to $ 5500 in principal . At that point , overpaying the mortgage is a better deal than overpaying the car loan and taking the early payment penalty at the end . More than $ 5500 and it looks like you 're better off paying the car loan even with the penalty .
It 's an asset if you can sell it or if it provides cash flow . For example , if you own a house , the house is an asset , even if you have a mortgage , because you can sell it . If you rent your home from someone else , it 's not an asset , because you do n't own it and ca n't sell it . Stocks , cars that you own ( not lease ) , cash , checking and savings accounts , precious metals , collectibles , and so on are assets . Liabilities are debts ; that is , what you owe . So , for example , liabilities include : balances on mortgages , student loans , credit cards , other loans , any tax or judgment debts , and so on .
I think the right question you should ask yourself about is : Can i work at home ? is it possible ? do i have a calm , private place at home to work from ? what will be the motivation while working from ? If you got answers to these questions , you will find if you can get money from home or not , because any place you can do work from will give you money , just work !
I value my home at slightly below ( say , less 8-10 % ) of comparable , recent sales in my neighborhood . I do this for a couple of reasons : I would n't expect to get the best price at any peak . Wishful thinking . And , Actually realizing any money from a sale would involve real estate commissions , moving fees , legal fees , etc. . I never guess . If I can not find a comparable sale , I leave the home value as-is until there is data .
If you 're looking for some formula , I do n't think one exists . People talk about this all the time and give conflicting advice . If there was a proven-accurate formula , they would n't be debating it . There are basically 3 reasons to do a home improvement project : ( a ) Correct a problem so that you prevent on-going damage to your home . For example , have a leaking roof patched or replaced , or exterminate termites . Such a job is worthwhile if the cost of fixing the problem is less than the cost of future damage . In the case of my termite and leaking roof examples , this is almost always worth doing . Lesser maintenance problems might be more debatable . Similarly , some improvements may reduce expenses . Like replacing an old furnace with a newer model may cut your heating bills . Here the question is : how long does it take to repay the investment , compared to other things you might invest your money in . Just to make up numbers : Suppose you find that a new furnace will save you $ 500 per year . If the new furnace costs $ 2000 , then it will take 4 years to pay for itself . I 'd consider that a good investment . If that same $ 2000 furnace will only cut your heating bills by $ 100 per year , then it will take 20 years to pay for itself . You 'd probably be better off putting the $ 2000 into the stock market and using the gains to help pay your heating bill . ( b ) Increase the resale value of your home . If you are paying someone else to do the work , the harsh reality here is : Almost no job will increase the resale value by more than the cost of getting the job done . I 've seen many articles over the years citing studies on this . I think most conclude that kitchen remodeling comes closet to paying for itself , and bathrooms come next . New windows are also up there . I do n't have studies to prove this , but my guesses would be : Replacing something that is basically nice with a different style will rarely pay for itself . Like , replacing oak cabinets with cherry cabinets . Replacing something that is in terrible shape with something decent is more likely to pay back than replacing something decent with something beautiful . Like if you have an old iron bathtub that 's rusting and falling apart , replacing it may pay off . If you have a 5-year-old bathtub that 's in good shape but is not premium , top of the line , replacing it with a premium bathtub will probably do very little for resale value . If you can do a lot of the work yourself , the story changes . Many home improvement jobs do n't require a lot of materials , but do require a lot of work . If you do the labor , you can often get the job done very cheaply , and it 's likely that the increase in resale value will be more than what you spend . For example , most of my house has hardwood floors . Lots of people like pretty hardwood floors . I just restained the floors in two rooms . It cost me , I do n't know , maybe $ 20 or $ 30 for stain and some brushes . I 'm sure if I tried to sell the house tomorrow I 'd get my twenty bucks back in higher sale value . Realtors often advise sellers to paint . Again , if you do it yourself , the cost of paint may be a hundred dollars , and it can increase the sale price of the house by thousands . Of course if you do the work yourself , you have to consider the value of your time . ( c ) To make your home more pleasant to live in . This is totally subjective . You have to make the decision on the same basis that you decide whether anything that is not essential to survival is worth buying . To some people , a bottle of fancy imported wine is worth thousands , even millions , of dollars . Others ca n't tell the difference between a $ 10,000 wine and a $ 15 wine . The thing to ask yourself is , How important is this home improvement to me , compared to other things I could do with the money ? Like , suppose you 're considering spending $ 20,000 remodeling your kitchen . What else could you do with $ 20,000 ? You could buy a car , go on an elaborate vacation , eat out several times a week for years , retire a little earlier , etc. . No one can tell you how much something is worth to you . Any given home improvement may involve a combination of these factors . Like say you 're considering that $ 20,000 kitchen remodeling . Say you somehow find out that this will increase the resale value by $ 15,000 . If the only reason you were considering it was to increase resale value , then it 's not worth it -- you 'd lose $ 5,000 . But if you also want the nicer kitchen , then it is fair to say , Okay , it will cost me $ 20,000 , but ultimately I 'll get $ 15,000 of that back . So in the long run it will only cost me $ 5,000 . Is having a nicer kitchen worth $ 5,000 to me ? Note , by the way , that resale value only matters if and when you sell the house . If you expect to stay in this house for 20 years , any improvements done are VERY long-term investments . If you live in it until you die , the resale value may matter to your heirs .
The HSA money is yours to keep . You ca n't add new money into the account and get a tax deduction for the new money , but you can spend the old money on medical expenses . First log into the website for the HSA and see if you have money left . This can be important because if there is still money left they might be charging you a monthly fee . You should have gotten a letter from the old company or the administrator when you left the High deductible insurance plan . This would have told you your options regarding the spending or transferring of old funds . HSA related numbers would have appeared on your W2 , and you should have a 1099-SA from the administrator . It is likely that there is a copy of the 1099 on the administrators website . The numbers you enter on the tax forms depends on how much you contributed from your paycheck , how much your company contributed , and how much you sent ( if any ) from other sources besides payroll deduction . You will also have to know how much money was withdrawn from the HSA and how much was used for medical purposes . The last month rule is for those people who start in the middle of the year . If you start partway through the year you are allowed to make the maximum contribution if you still have it at the end of the year , and <URL> . The Last Month Rule The Last Month Rule states that if you are covered by an HSA eligible health plan on the first day of the last month of a given year , you are considered an eligible individual for the entire year . In turn , you can then contribute to the HSA for that full year . If you are covered by an HDHP on Dec 1st of a given year , you may contribute the maximum for that year . For example , you could begin coverage and open up my HSA in November of a given year . Come December 1st , you are covered and per the Last Month Rule , considered an eligible employee for that full year . That allows you to contribute up to that year 's contribution limit , even waiting a few months to make a prior year contribution if you like . Back up the truck and load up the HSA ! However , there is a catch . The Testing Period The Testing Period states if you use the Last Month Rule , you must remain an eligible individual ( covered by HDHP ) for the following 12 months . If you fail to remain an eligible individual ( change insurance plans , lose insurance plan , receive other health coverage ) any " extra " contributions you made as a result of the Last Month Rule will be taxed and penalized . If you contribute per the Last Month Rule and end your HDHP insurance within 1 year , you will have to pay tax on any excess contributions you were allowed to make and pay a 10 % penalty . In this case , " excess " contributions are determined by the contribution limit / 12 months , compared to your time eligible .
Home equity loan is a kind of a mortgage loan . So you 're basically asking " what 's better : mortgage or mortgage ? " . Home equity loan is usually taken as a second mortgage on the house , while you 're still paying the initial one , but accumulated some equity in the property . In the scenario you 're describing , there 's no " second mortgage " , there 's only one mortgage . You can call it " The wonderful glorious bestest ever mortgage " or you can call it " home equity mortgage " , and it would make no difference to the essence . Look at the numbers , and decide which terms are better , not which name sounds nicer to you .
end question
start question
What are the benefits and downsides to an LLC vs. Sole Proprietorship vs. Individiual ?
In my experience ( and I 'm a programmer , not an accountant ) it comes down to this : LLC gives you the liability protection of a Corporation without the hassle of keeping minutes of meetings and filing 2 sets of taxes . Sole Proprietor is cheap &amp; easy , but does not give you any liability protection If you get paid ' as a person ' , the employer is expected to use a W2 if they pay you more than , I think , $ 600 By liability protection , I mean that if you should screw something up ( or the client believes you broke something ) , who 's responsible ? With an LLC or Corporation it 's typically the company that 's responsible , so they could sue the company for all its assets , but could n't take your house . However , as a Sole Proprietor , you 're personal assets are not protected . There are exceptions when your LLC or Corp might make you liable personally , for example if you have conducted them such that there is a blurred line between personality and company ( for instance I think if you do n't have a separate account ) LLCs are also state specific , so the rules ( and costs ) vary state to state .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
I just opened my Quicken 2009 to see exactly what you 're talking about . This may be slightly different from 2008 , but in 2009 there are three numbers at the bottom of the register : Online Balance , Current Balance and Ending Balance . Online Balance is the number downloaded from my bank . That 's what 's in my checking account right now , but I know that I 've written the rent check and it has n't yet been taken out of my account . Current Balance goes by the transactions I 've entered , in addition to the information downloaded from my bank . So , that number has taken into consideration that I 've got a few checks hanging out there . ( Of course , that only works if you tell Quicken that you 've written those checks . ) Ending Balance takes into consideration info downloaded from my bank , checks and transactions I 've told Quicken about that have taken place already , and upcoming transactions , like my student loan payment that will be automatically deducted from my account tomorrow . You can tell Quicken how far in advance you want these factored in for each bill . For paychecks , I have it set to automatically enter into my register 2 days in advance . For automatic payments , I set it to enter in my register a week in advance . Now , unless you have more than $ 2000 in checks hanging out there , it 's unlikely that your Ending Balance is correct . But if you have any checks that have n't been processed yet , or you know about upcoming transactions , you really ca n't run out and spend the $ 3K that your Online Balance claims you have . ( Not that you were planning to do that anyway . ) Bottom line , you need to reconcile your account . Duplicate entries could explain the discrepancy , and should be deleted . In the future , if you 're downloading transactions from two places , make sure you match them to avoid duplicates . Sorry this was wordy , but hopefully it helps ! Good luck !
I would contact whoever your loan is through for more details , but I will explain to you how mine works . Basically I have a auto-debit that happens every month . On that same page is a form for " additonal payment " , which will just add to the payment I 've made . I 'm not sure the reason for reduced interest , but I also receive a discount on my interest for signing up for auto debit . If I cancel the auto-debit , the reduced interest rate returns to the actual interest rate .
Pros Being able to buy a house with less than 10 % down . Specifically , as little as 3.5 % . Maximum debt-to-income allowed in 41 % , which may or may not be better than what you can get at a bank . Cons Paying Mortgage insurance out the wazoo . Nobody thinks about it this way , but FHA loans are actually quite expensive because of this . You 'll pay two Mortgage insurances : 1 % one time fee at closing 1.15 % per year ongoing Plus , it 's harder to get out of down the road that regular PMI . With regular PMI , you can stop paying it when your loan to value drops below 80 % . With FHA , you a ) must have been paying for at least 5 years , and b ) it 's 78 % loan to value where " value " is the initial appraised value at closing , NOT the current value . In other words , the equity you get from your home rising in value does not count , whereas it does with regular bank PMI . I 've calculated that if you do n't make extra payments , you 'll be paying PMI for about 14 years . Note that for all practical purposes , you 'd have to get a interest rate of less than 4.85 % for your effective interest rate ( interest + pmi ) to drop below 6 % . That 's not counting the effect of that additional 1 % up front .
" Current " is another word for Checking , as it is called in the US . Savings account is an interest-bearing account with certain limitations . For example , in the US you can not withdraw money from it more than 6 times a month . <URL> . Current account is a " general-use " account on which you can write checks , use ATM/Debit cards and have unlimited transactions . It can also have negative balance ( if your bank agrees to let you overdraft , they usually charge huge fees for that though ) . Checking accounts can have interest as well , but they usually do n't , and if they do - it 's much lower than the savings account interest .
In the academic sense , an annuity is payable annually for a term of years and a perpetuity is payable annually forever . An annuity has an end date and a perpetuity does not . Many commonly seen annuities are structured to pay until death of the recipient , which for the issuer can be averaged and anticipated using actuarial tables ( i.e. the anticipated average number of years for the aggregate is known , even though individual payees may live longer or shorter lives ) . This is still analyzed as an annuity for a term of years . An annuity may be payable upon retirement , but there 's no financial reason you could n't delay a perpetuity by a term of years . You 'd value it as a perpetuity , but discount it for the future value based on the retirement date . I do n't believe anybody does this currently . You could also index a perpetuity , but of course that would raise its cost to purchase at the front end . Tax treatment of annuities can be favorable to the extent that insurance rules are more favorable than one might expect . But the payment of interest is generally ordinary income under IRC  61 , whether it is payable every year or for a term of years . The last difference you list is the actual rule . Perpetuities are payable forever , so do not cease with death . An annuity that ceases with death is payable only for a term of years ( even though the term may not be known ahead of time for any individual annuitant ) . A perpetuity continues paying , so it 's just a stream of income . Of course , perpetuities could be called back by the issuer in exchange for some value ( possibly a cash settlement sum or determined by a formula ) , which terminates the perpetuity obligation . But the mathematical valuation is still based on the idea of endless payment . <URL> : <URL> :
If she selects 2012 and contributes $ 500 , she will have contributed the maximum allowable amount for 2012 , and has the option of contributing the maximum amount for 2013 as well ( if she chooses to do so ) . If she does not max out her contribution for 2012 by April 15 , 2013 , that opportunity is lost , though she continues to have the option of contributing the maximum amount for 2013 . Whether contributing the maximum allowable amount to a Roth IRA is a good thing or bad thing is something about which unreasonable people might differ . Edit : @JBKing 's answer makes a very good point that I will elaborate on and incorporate into this answer . Eligibility to make a contribution for 2012 is presumably a given at this point ( there is at least $ 5000 in earned income and AGI is not too large ( see Pub 950 for details ) ) , but eligibility to make a contribution for 2013 is as yet undetermined . If the 2013 AGI turns out to be more than the limit so that the OP 's sister can not contribute to a Roth IRA for 2013 , that contribution for 2013 made today will have to be withdrawn or re-characterized as a non-deductible contribution to a Traditional IRA for 2013 . To the best of my knowledge , it will not be possible to re-characterize it as a Roth IRA contribution for 2012 at that point in time . So the opportunity to add $ 500 to the Roth IRA will be irretrievably lost . As JoeTaxpayer says , why not keep options open by making a full contribution for 2012 while the opportunity is there ? In this sense , I think there is a downside to choosing 2013 instead of 2012 for that $ 500 contribution .
Depends on the State . In California , for example , you pay a franchise tax of $ 800 every year just for having LLC , and in addition to that - income tax on gross revenue . But in other States ( like Wyoming , for example ) there 's no taxes at all , only registration fees ( which may still amount to ~ $ 100-300 a year ) . IRS does n't care about LLC 's at all ( unless you chose to treat is as a corporation ) . You need to understand that in the US we have the " Federal Government " ( IRS is part of that ) and the " State Government " that deals with business entities , in each of the 50 States . Since you 're talking about Italy , and not EU , you should similarly be talking about the relevant State , and not US .
The primary advantage is protection of your personal assets . If your LLC gets sued , they ca n't take your house/car/dog / wife . There are n't really any financial incentives to be an LLC ; because of the pass-thru taxing structure , you wind up paying the same in taxes either way . " The cost " will depend on where you 're located , and usually involves a few factors -- Expect to pay $ 300-500 to start it , depending on your state and who you register with ( technically , you can usually register for free at the secretary of state , but would n't you rather pay an expert ? ) , and " State Franchise Tax " , which will can be a minimum of up to $ 1000/year depending on the state , plus even more if your LLC earns more than $ xxx ,000 . EDIT -- As an aside , I 'll mention that I 'm based in California , and our state franchise tax starts at $ 800/yr . I 'm all-web-based , so I 've been investigating incorporating in Nevada or Delaware instead ( no franchise tax , lower filing fees ) , but from what I 've found , it 's hardly worth the trouble . In addition to having to pay a Registered Agent ( someone to act as my permanent mailing address in that state for ~ $ 100/yr ) , apparently California likes to search for people just like me , and charge them $ 800 anyway . You can fight that , of course , and claim that your business really is done in Nevada , but do you really want to ?
There is no downside if you do n't carry a balance . Just pay it off every month and the interest rate is irrelevant . With interest rates on credit cards , the bank can decide to up your rate at any time . I have a card that I got with a 9.99 % interest rate that was fixed . After about a year it was upped . Now 5 years later the interest rate is like 18.99 % . Since I do n't carry a balance it has no affect on me .
Just speaking from my experience here . When I was younger ( lol only 23 now ) , I did n't really get pocket money . If I wanted something I had to work for this , luckily at 13 I scored a paper round gaining # 10 per week . I would personally say to encourage children to do some " work " , whether its a paper round , or even just house chores . I learned early on , that to get money you have to work for it . I 've always had a job since 13 , most of my college years I held 2 jobs at a time , even 3 at 1 point . Many of my friends did n't work for their pocket money , they relied on handouts , quite a few of these friends have later on in life taken the easy route , not working and rely on state ( pocket money ) , or still have mummy and daddy pay for everything So my moral is ; do n't just give out willy-nilly , teach some value to money and it will go a long way ;) / 2 cents
Whole Life is just an insurance product and an investment product wrapped into a single package . The only advantage is that since you 're forced to make payments to maintain the insurance , you 're forced to invest . It 's really just the " Christmas Club " or payroll-deduction idea , though it tries to claim otherwise . If you 're unable to make yourself set aside money for the future without that pressure , this advantage may have some value . Otherwise , probably not . And there are significant disadvantages . You 're giving up the ability to control your own investments , and paying for the convenience of not having to ( or being able to ) think about them . Not just in the agent 's commission , but in paying a relatively high ongoing rate for the investment " brokerage " service -- and keeping those fees low would make a significant difference in actual rate of return , which compounded over the years can make a large difference in actual earnings . There 's no free lunch . The insurance companies offer this because it makes a profit for them . That profit can ONLY come out of your pocket .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
This question brings back memories . Short answer : get the three car garage ! It 's the best $ 5k you 'll ever spend . Long answer : I bought my house many years ago , new construction , and made a choice to get the model with the 2-car garage instead of the one with the 3-car garage across the street because the price difference was $ 15k . The houses were otherwise identical . My thinking at the time : " No way I 'm spending $ 15k for a garage spot ! " Oh , the regrets I have today ! I envy my neighbors with the extra garage space . Yes , I only have two cars , but storage space is tight , my workbench is impossible to use without backing the car out to the driveway , and I wish I had spent the money . There will be another driver in the house in a few years and I do n't have the option of garaging a third car . How I wish I could go back in time and slap some sense into my younger self . For $ 5k , I think it 's a no-brainer . In 10 + years , my guess is that the houses with the 3-car garage will have appreciated much more than $ 5k in value than the houses with just 2-car garages . Like I said , I have regrets .
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
There are three main ways of appraising a property. : Comparable sales . - Great for non-investment homes . Not so good for properties that do n't sell very often - like church buildings . Income value - how much rental income can be generated by the property , and what is that stream of money worth . Cost to rebuild - There are two key parts to the cost to rebuild . What would it take rebuild a similar structure , and how should depreciation be handled . The 300K figure is the cost to rebuild if the house is destroyed . It does n't consider the cost of the land , because that is rarely destroyed . But the Cost Approach ( If Developed ) deducts from the rebuild cost the depreciation . If the house is not new that can be significant . This is not the same as the depreciation calculation used by the IRS , it says that as the house gets older it is not worth as much . This figure can not be used by the fire insurance company . It also does n't take into account the historic nature . By the depreciation calculation <URL> would be worthless . More details can be found <URL>
Apples and oranges . The stock market requires a tiny bit of your time . Perhaps a lot if you are interested in individual stocks , and pouring through company annual reports , but close to none if you have a mix of super low cost ETFs or index fund . The real estate investing you propose is , at some point , a serious time commitment . Unless you use a management company to handle incoming calls and to dispatch repair people . But that 's a cost that will eat into your potential profits . If you plan to do this ' for real , ' I suggest using the 401 ( k ) , but then having the option to take loans from it . The ability to write a check for $ 50K is pretty valuable when buying real estate . When you run the numbers , this will benefit you long term . Edit - on re-reading your question <URL> , I withdraw my answer above . You overestimated the return you will get , the actual return will likely be negative . It does n't take too many years of your one per year strategy to wipe you out . Per your comment below , if bought right , rentals can be a great long term investment . Glad you did n't buy the loser .
There are several ways you can get out of paying your student loans back in the USA : You become disabled and the loan is dismissed once verified by treating doctor or the Social Security Administration . You become a peace officer . You become a teacher ; generally K-12 , but I have heard from the DOE that teachers at state schools qualify as well . So the " malicious " friend B is prescribing to the theory that if one of those conditions becomes true , friend A will not have to pay back the loan . The longer you drag it out , the more chance you have to fulfill a condition . Given that 2 of these methods require a commitment , my guess is that they are thinking more along the lines of the first one , which is horrible . Financially , it makes no sense to delay paying back your loans because deferred loans are only interest-free until you graduate and are past your grace period , after which they will begin accruing interest . Unsubsidized loans accrue interest from the day you get them , only their payback is deferred until you graduate and exhaust your grace period . Anytime you ask for forbearance , you are still accruing interest and it is capitalizing into your principal -- you are just given a chance to delay payback due to financial hardship , bad health , or loss of job . Therefore , at no point are you benefiting beyond the time you are in school and getting an education , still looking for a job , or dealing with health issues . In the current market , no CD , no savings account , and no investment will give you substantially more return that will offset the loss of the interest you are accruing . Even those of us in the old days getting 4.X % rates would not do this . There was a conditional consolidation offer the DOE allowed which could bring all your loans under one roof for a competitive 5.x-6.x % rate allowing you a single payment , but even then you would benefit if you had rates that were substantially higher . From a credit worthiness aspect , you are hurt by the outstanding obligation and any default along the way , so you really want to avoid that -- paying off or down your loans are a good way to ensure you do n't shoot yourself in the foot .
You 've already hit on the big difference . If you buy a property , you 've made a big commitment , for better or worse . If you bought wisely , you 'll be very happy . If not , you could go bankrupt . An REIT spreads out the risk , but the reward is n't as great . There 's less barrier to entry in buying shares of an REIT than there is in buying an investment property : money , time , maintenance . The answer for you depends on what level of effort you want to put into your investment . If you are all ready to pick up an investment property , make the down payment , get appraisal and inspection , clean up the house , and fill it with tenants , then go for it . Otherwise , research some REITs and buy some shares . ( Disclaimer : I have a rental property that 's doing pretty well now . )
end question
start question
What does " a stock pays a dividend of 3 % " mean ?
It means a 3 % return on the value of the stock . If a stock has a $ 10 share price , the dividend would be $ 0.30 . Normally though , the dividends are announced as a fixed amount per share , because the share price fluctuates . If a percentage were announced , then the final cost would not be known as the share priced could change radically before the dividend date .
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
It means that the company earned 15 cents per share in the most recently reported quarter . Share price may or not be affected , depending on how buyers and sellers value the company . Just because profits " jumped , " does not mean the shares will follow suit . An increase in profits may have already been priced into the stock , or the market expected the increase in profit to be even higher . As the shareholder , you do n't actually get any of these profits into your hands , unless the company pays out a portion of these profits as a dividend .
But I wish to know why the parameter is dividend/market price rather than just ' dividend ' ? What ' extra ' info you can uncover by looking at dividend/market price that you can not get from ' dividend ' ? Consider two stocks A and B . A offers a dividend of $ 1 per year . B offers a dividend of $ 2 per year . Let 's remove all complications aside and assume that this trend continues . If you were to buy each of these stocks you will get the following amounts over its life ( assumed infinity for simplicity ) : cash flows from A = $ 1 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 25 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum cash flows from B = $ 2 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 50 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum The price you buy them at is an important factor to consider because let 's say if A was trading for $ 10 and B for $ 60 , then A would look like a profitable nvestment while B wo n't . Of course , this is a very simplistic view . Dividend rates are not constant and many companies pose a significant risk of going bust but this should help illustrate the general idea behind the D/P ratio . P.S. : - The formula I have used is one for computing the NPV of a <URL> .
If you 've got shares in a company that 's filed for U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy , that sucks , it really does . I 've been there before and you may lose your entire investment . If there 's still a market for your shares and you can sell them , you may want to just accept the loss and get out with what you can . However , shares of bankrupt companies are often delisted once bankrupt , since the company no longer meets minimum exchange listing requirements . If you 're stuck holding shares with no market , you could lose everything -- but that 's not always the case : Chapter 11 is n't total and final bankruptcy where the company ceases to exist after liquidation of its assets to pay off its debts . Rather , Chapter 11 is a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that permits a company to attempt to reorganize ( or renegotiate ) its debt obligations . During Chapter 11 reorganization , a company can negotiate with its creditors for a better arrangement . They typically need to demonstrate to creditors that without the burden of the heavy debt , they could achieve profitability . Such reorganization often involves creditors taking complete or majority ownership of the company when it emerges from Chapter 11 through a debt-for-equity swap . That 's why you , as an investor before the bankruptcy , are very likely to get nothing or just pennies on the dollar . Any equity you may be left holding will be considerably diluted in value . It 's rare that shareholders before a Chapter 11 bankruptcy still retain any equity after the company emerges from Chapter 11 , but it is possible . But it varies from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and it can be complex as montyloree pointed out . Investopedia has a great article : <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : If a company you 've got a stake in files for bankruptcy , chances are you 'll get back pennies to the dollar . Different bankruptcy proceedings or filings generally give some idea as to whether the average investor will get back all or a portion of his investment , but even that is determined on a case-by-case basis . There is also a pecking order of creditors and investors of who get paid back first , second and last . In this article , we 'll explain what happens when a public company files for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws and how it affects investors . [ ... ] How It Affects Investors [ ... ] When your company goes bankrupt , there is a very good chance you will not get back the full value of your investment . In fact , there is a chance you wo n't get anything back . [ ... ] Wikipedia has a good article on Chapter 11 bankruptcy at <URL> .
I agree with the answer by @Michael that this number does n't exist . It 's hard to see what use it would have and it would be difficult to track . I 'm writing a separate answer because I also disagree with the premise of your question : Individual shares of stock have never to my knowledge had such a number . Your comment about numbers on stock certificates identifies the certificate document , which will generally represent multiple shares of stock . That number no more identifies a single share of stock than the serial number on a $ 10 bill identifies any one of the ten dollars it represents . Even at the " collective " unit of $ 10 , when the bill is eventually replaced with a new one , the new bill has a new number . No continuity .
Does the 457 ( b ) plan allow for the rollover of other retirement funds into it ? And do you have very specific reasons for wanting to roll over your SEP-IRA into the 457 ( b ) plan instead of into some other IRA plan with a different custodian ? For example , if you already have a Traditional IRA , is there any reason why your SEP-IRA should not be rolled over into the Traditional IRA ? With regard to the question about separate accounts , once upon a time , rolling over money from an employment retirement plan ( e.g. 401k ) into a Traditional IRA required establishing a separate account called a Rollover Traditional IRA so that the rolled-over money ( and the earnings thereon ) were not commingled with standard traditional IRA money resulting from personal contributions ) . This was so that the account owner had the option of rolling over the separately kept money into a new employer 's retirement plan ( if such a rollover was permitted by the new 401k plan ) . If one did not want to ever roll over money into a new employer plan , one had to write a letter to the custodian telling them that commingling was OK ; you never wanted to put that money into another 401k plan . The law changed some time later and the concept of Rollover IRAs holding non-commingled funds has disappeared . With that as prologue , my answer to your question is that perhaps the law did not change with respect to 457 ( b ) plans , and so the money that you want to rollover into the 457 ( b ) plan needs to be kept separate and not commingled with your contributions via payroll deduction to the 457 ( b ) plan ( in case you want to ever roll over the SEP-IRA money into another SEP-IRA ) . Hence , separate accounts are needed : one to hold your SEP-IRA money and one to hold your contributions via payroll deductions .
Given the context , I 'd imagine you need to give at least 24 hours notice of viewings so that the landlord can inform the tenant ( probably due to a clause in the lease )
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
authorized 100,000,000 shares They can not issue shares more than that so 102M is n't possible . Common stock - $ .01 par value , authorized 100,000,000 shares , issued 51,970,721 and 51,575,743 shares If you look at the right 2 columns it become clear what it means . You missed the symbol and on the top ouststanding share 51,970,721 - > 520 On Sept 30 , 2014 outstanding shares * 0.01 and rounded off to arrive at 520 . ouststanding share 51,575,743 - > 516 On June 30 , 2014 outstanding shares * 0.01 and rounded off to arrive at 516 .
<URL> Asian debt markets have also been under pressure lately , reflecting global asset reallocation from emerging markets ( EMs ) to developed markets ( DMs ) in view of the growing unease over the impending reversal in the QE stimulus by the US Fed .
Brokers are supposed to ( by law ) only advise you or suggest to you to make trades that are in your best interest . Many people who do n't have time and/or confidence in their own ability to learn about investing and make their own choices , often rely on the broker for advice on what to buy and sell , and when . If a trade was to go wrong , and it could be shown that the broker did something that was in their interest and not the clients , then the client could potentially have recourse . ( for example , if the broker traded in penny stocks when the client had expressed that they were highly risk adverse and it was of primary interest for them to preserve their capital . ) That line is the broker 's way of protecting themselves from you coming back later and claiming that " they said for me to get into xyz corp and it was not appropriate and now it 's tanked and I have lost everything wha wah wahhhhh " It 's saying that they did not approach you and ' solicit ' you to do this trade , that you ordered it on your own , and on your own head be it if it later turns out to not be the right thing for you or goes south in any way .
Probably the best way to investigate this is to look at an example . First , as the commenters above have already said , the log-return from one period is log ( price at time t/price at time t-1 ) which is approximately equal to the percentage change in the price from time t-1 to time t , provided that this percentage change is not big compared to the size of the price . ( Note that you have to use the natural log , ie . log to the base e -- ln button on a calculator -- here . ) The main use of the log-return is that is a proxy for the percentage change in the price , which turns out to be mathematically convenient , for various reasons which have mostly already been mentioned in the comments . But you already know this ; your actual question is about the average log-return over a period of time . What does this indicate about the stock ? The answer is : if the stock price is not changing very much , then the average log-return is about equal to the average percentage change in the price , and is very easy and quick to calculate . But if the stock price is very volatile , then the average log-return can be wildly different to the average percentage change in the price . Here is an example : the closing prices for Pitchfork Oil from last week 's trading are : 10 , 5 , 12 , 5 , 10 , 2 , 15 . The percentage changes are : -0.5 , 1.4 , -0.58 , 1 , -0.8 , 6.5 ( where -0.5 means -50 % , etc. ) The average percentage change is 1.17 , or 117 % . On the other hand , the log-returns for the same period are -0.69 , 0.88 , -0.88 , 0.69 , -1.6 , 2 , and the average log-return is about 0.068 . If we used this as a proxy for the average percentage change in the price over the whole seven days , we would get 6.8 % instead of 117 % , which is wildly wrong . The reason why it is wrong is because the price fluctuated so much . On the other hand , the closing prices for United Marshmallow over the same period are 10 , 11 , 12 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 . The average percentage change from day to day is 0.073 , and the average log-return is 0.068 , so in this case the log-return is very close to the percentage change . And it has the advantage of being computable from just the first and last prices , because the properties of logarithms imply that it simplifies to ( log ( 15 ) - log ( 10 ) ) / 6 . Notice that this is exactly the same as for Pitchfork Oil . So one reason why you might be interested in the average log-return is that it gives a very quick way to estimate the average return , if the stock price is not changing very much . Another , more subtle reason , is that it actually behaves better than the percentage return . When the price of Pitchfork jumps from 5 to 12 and then crashes back to 5 again , the percentage changes are +140 % and -58 % , for an average of +82 % . That sounds good , but if you had bought it at 5 , and then sold it at 5 , you would actually have made 0 % on your money . The log-returns for the same period do not have this disturbing property , because they do add up to 0 % . What 's the real difference in this example ? Well , if you had bought $ 1 worth of Pitchfork on Tuesday , when it was 5 , and sold it on Wednesday , when it was 12 , you would have made a profit of $ 1.40 . If you had then bought another $ 1 on Wednesday and sold it on Thursday , you would have made a loss of $ 0.58 . Overall , your profit would have been $ 0.82 . This is what the average percentage return is calculating . On the other hand , if you had been a long-term investor who had bought on Tuesday and hung on until Thursday , then quoting an " average return " of 82 % is highly misleading , because it in no way corresponds to the return of 0 % which you actually got ! The moral is that it may be better to look at the log-returns if you are a buy-and-hold type of investor , because log-returns cancel out when prices fluctuate , whereas percentage changes in price do not . But the flip-side of this is that your average log-return over a period of time does not give you much information about what the prices have been doing , since it is just ( log ( final price ) - log ( initial price ) ) / number of periods . Since it is so easy to calculate from the initial and final prices themselves , you commonly wo n't see it in the financial pages , as far as I know . Finally , to answer your question : " Does knowing this single piece of information indicate something about the stock ? " , I would say : not really . From the point of view of this one indicator , Pitchfork Oil and United Marshmallow look like identical investments , when they are clearly not . Knowing the average log-return is exactly the same as knowing the ratio between the final and initial prices .
Some people are paranoid about day-to-day or month-to-month fluctuations in their credit scores , perhaps because they have signed up with various on-line services that monitor their credit scores and promptly report any changes . Suppose your credit limit is $ 5000 and you charge $ 3500 ( 70 % ) on the card each month for several months in a row and pay the full balance promptly every month ; maybe even on the day the monthly statement is issued . Yes , it may " look bad " to the reporting agencies and affect your credit score negatively since the agencies can not tell the difference between your actions and those of someone who charged $ 3500 once and is paying just enough each month to keep the balance at $ 3500 . But , your credit card company knows the difference between you and the other guy , and believe me , the company would far rather have you as a customer than the other guy . Since the credit-card company charges the merchants fees ( anywhere from 1 % to 5 % ) for processing the transactions , they earn far more from you than the other guy , and have comparatively little risk of having to turn over the account to a collection agency . You will likely get an increase in your credit limit without even asking for it in a few months . They want to keep you rather than lose you to a competing offer from another credit-card company . Of course , as in all cases , YMMV .
Yes , you would . You owe it to the person you borrowed the shares from . ( <URL> )
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
The intended use involves the power plays that occur amongst the senior officers of a company as they jockey for position through mergers , board control , takeovers , and other activities that are unique to the executive realm . A lot of this certainly involves holding your hand close and revealing information strategically and deliberately if it furthers your cause . And I 'm sure there 's a lot of bluffing and folding ( resignations ) . With regard to that article you posted , it 's also appears to be a bit of a mystery from the outside looking in , because only the people playing know the rules . A more pedestrian use of the term is an actual poker match with a high buy-in -- presumably high enough that only CEOs would have this kind of money to throw away .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
end question
start question
Gifts under the annual gift tax exemption FROM minor children ?
You can not . Even if your children actually have that money - your <URL> is to them , not to yourself . You can not gift away money they own for your own purposes . They have to want to gift it away , since it belongs to them . I doubt they do , or they should . Since you have to have their best interests in mind - you should n't allow them gift away such amounts even if they 're willing to . Doing otherwise will be a criminal act on your behalf ( embezzlement/breach of fiduciary duty ) . Do talk to an attorney of course , since I 'm not . But that is my understanding of things . If your kids do n't actually have the money , then they can obviously not gift it , so claiming that they did would be a tax fraud .
If you have held the stocks longer than a year , then there is no tax apart from the STT that is already deducted when you sell the shares . If you have held the stock for less than a year , you would have to pay short term capital gains at the rate of 15 % on the profit . Edit : If you buy different shares from the total amount or profits , it makes no difference to taxes .
I found <URL> at MarketWatch.com - a listing on online games that help parents teach kids about saving and finance , set up by age group . Here 's an example of some of the content : For children six to nine : <URL> , sponsored by the Fleet Bank , has great games -- like " Buy lo , Sell hi " and " Chunka Change " -- that teach kids about spending and saving . Kids can compete for prizes such as computers and backpacks for their schools .
First you must understand your <URL> ( Tax Bracket ) The exemptions you claim are like saying to your employer " tax me on $ 4050 less , or more " for each change up or down of 1 exemption . Say you look at the table ( <URL> ) and see you are in the 15 % bracket . And your refund is $ 2000 . 2000 / .15 is $ 13,333 . So you want that $ 13K to not be taxed . Raising exemptions by 3 ( 3x4050 = 12,150 ) will get you close . $ 1822 closer to your goal . For what it 's worth , you can read through the instructions for the W4 , of course . But this answer skips through the details and gets you to your goal . One point to note , since the exemption is in whole numbers , and $ 4050 is it , you will get close , + / - $ 608 if in the 15 % bracket , but to get dead on , you 'd need a mid year adjustment . Not worth it . A refund of under $ 608 should be enough for a 15 % er . ( $ 1012 for a 25 % er ) If you ready want to nail the taxes to a closer accuracy , you can use the line requesting additional dollars be withheld . <URL> Most W4 discussions miss this point . The exact number withheld by your employer comes from an IRS document known as Circular E , but retrieved as <URL> . It will help you confirm the validity of my dirty shortcut method . What I do recommend is that you use a quick online tax calculator to do a dry run of you return , early in the year . If you see your withholding is off in either direction , best to adjust as soon as possible . ( The numbers here now reflect 2016 's $ 4050 exemption , recent question on Money.SE have linked to this one , prompting me to update for 2016 )
<URL> says that heirs have six months to clear the debt one way or the other . Heirs get an initial six months to deal with the loan payoff . And it 's to their advantage to move as quickly as possible . Until the loan is settled , interest on the balance and monthly insurance premiums will continue to eat into any remaining equity . <URL> also gives the six month number : Your heirs will work closely with the Servicer to ensure the loan is paid in full in a timely manner . While payment is due immediately , the heirs have six months to satisfy the debt . If they are selling the property and it is still on the market after six months , the heirs can contact the Loan Servicer and request a 90-day extension , subject to approval by HUD . One additional 90-day extension can be requested , again with HUD 's approval .
You can only claim your spouses exemption on a 1040nr if both of the following apply to you : you are a <URL> or <URL> you provided over <URL> Your spouse 's status does n't matter . It sounds like you only provided support for her for 59 days , so I do n't think you qualify .
You 're not subject to the US tax laws , and since the income is not US-sourced , it is not subject to withholding . Your employer does n't need any form , but if they insist - you can provide them a W8-BEN to certify your non-resident status . Keep in mind that if you do come to the US , the money you earn while in the US is US-sourced and subject to the US taxes and withholding , even if you 're non-resident .
Firstly , there is also a lifetime gift + estate tax allowance . If the father 's estate , including other gifts given in his lifetime , is unlikely to exceed that allowance , it might be simplest simply to give the whole amount now and count it against the allowance . Right now the allowance is $ 5.34 M , but that seems quite a big political football and it 's the allowance when you die that matters . Looking back at past values for the allowance , $ 1M seems like a pretty safe amount to bet on . If you want to avoid/minimize the use of that allowance , I would make a loan structured as a mortgage that will have $ 14K payments each year ( which can then be forgiven ) . The points in Rick Goldstein 's answer about an appropriate rate , and being able to give more if more notional donors and recipients can be used , also apply . So for example in the first year hand over $ 200K at 3.5 % and immediately forgive $ 14K . The next year , forgive the interest charge of $ 6.5 K and capital of $ 7.5 K. Given the age of the daughter , I guess the father might well die before its all paid off that way , leaving some residue to be forgiven by the estate ( and thus potentially incurring estate taxes ) . There might also be state gift/estate taxes to consider . Edited to reflect 2014 gift and lifetime exclusion limits .
According to <URL> , assuming that you are residing in the US during your time at college , and this appears to be the case by the nature of your scholarship , then no , the scholarship income is not reportable to the IRS .
You can certainly use the formula for the effective rate . The effective six-month rate is the rate of interest , compounded every six months , you would need to earn in order to earn the same amount of interest as an investment of the same principal , compounded annually . For example , if the interest rate , compounded annually , is 10 % , you calculate the six-month effective rate as shown : Solving this equation for yields a six-month effective rate of 4.881 % . You can verify that this gives the same investment as the annual rate with this calculation : where $ 100 is the principal , i.e. the initial investment . You can cancel it in this equation , but I left it in for the sake of clarify . This means that an investment earning 4.881 % interest , compounded every six months , would be worth the same as an investment earning a 10 % interest rate , compounded every year . In other words , the fact that the six-month compounding period is smaller than the annual compounding period does n't matter . The annual rate and the six-month rate both represent an answer to this question : Given some compounding period , what interest rate do I need to earn 10 % on my initial investment over the course of a year ? In my example , say you start with $ 100 and want to have $ 110 by the end of the year . A single interest payment of $ 10 at the end of a year ( " an annual rate of 10 % " ) would work , but two interest payments of 4.881 % , the first paid after six months based on your initial investment , and the second paid after a year based on your initial investment and the previous interest payment , would also work . Both interest rate structures give you the same amount after a year . The amounts and times at which they pay you are different , but the end result is the same . I 'm not sure which formula for nominal interest rates you 're referring to , but usually this refers to interest rates that do n't take inflation into account . That formula ( ) is n't directly related to compounding , and usually if you see the term " interest rate " listed without specifying nominal or real , it 's referring to the nominal rate . In the calculations above , I 'm exclusively referring to nominal rates .
This does n't directly pertain to international transactions but may be relevant . I got an American Express gift card over the holidays , and I tried to use it at an online merchant . The card was declined because it failed address verification . I called American Express gift card services ( number was on the gift card ) , and they knew immediately what the problem was and fixed it . They simply took my address and added it as a billing address on the card . I retried the payment and it went through right away . It may be worth calling the gift card company and asking them to simply add your billing address .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
There are only two things you can directly do with the money in an Amazon gift card : you can keep the gift card , or you can put the money into your Amazon account . There are n't any other options . You ca n't deposit the value into a bank account or anything like that . So , as far as safety , those are the only options you need to consider , because there 's nothing else you can do . ( Okay , there is one other thing you can do : you could sell the card to someone else , or barter it for something you want . But you can do that with anything . ) The " gift card " is basicaly just a string of numbers and letters that you put into your Amazon account and it credits you with the appropriate amount of money . So yes , it can be stolen . If you have n't redeemed it yet , someone could find the code by hacking your email or looking over your shoulder or whatever . If they redeem it , you wo n't be able to do so . As for your edit : If I do n't transfer the balance of the Amazon egift card to my Amazon account , can I transfer the balance to other accounts or use the card to buy other gift cards ? If you do n't transfer it to your account , you can transfer the balance to another account by giving the code to someone else and letting them deposit it in their account . You still wo n't be able to buy other gift cards with it , because you ca n't buy anything with it until it 's deposited in an Amazon account , and once it 's deposited in an Amazon account , you ca n't buy gift cards with it because of their policy . If you do n't want the restrictions imposed by Amazon , do n't buy Amazon gift cards ; instead , just use your actual money to buy things . If you 're worried about the cards being stolen , just deposit them into your account right away and you eliminate the risk of them being stolen . If , as you say , you bought the cards for yourself , there 's no reason not to do this ; presumably you bought them so you could buy things on Amazon , and you 'll have to deposit them into your account eventually anyway to do that , so just put them in right away . I do n't know specifically how Walmart cards work , but I assume they 're the same . In general , anything called a " gift card " offered by a particular retailer works the same way : you ca n't do anything with it except buy products at that retailer . The only thing that really makes Amazon different is that the only way to use your card is to add the money to your Amazon account , because the only way to pay for things on Amazon is with an Amazon account . There 's no way to spend just some of the value ; you have to deposit it all into your account . With gift cards for retailers with physical locations , you can usually use the value up piecemeal , by actually going to a store and spending just enough to buy something . ( I assume Walmart works this way , although I do n't know if you can use an e-gift card this way there . )
Take the equation 1 + r _ { annual } = ( 1 + r _ { monthly } ) ^ 12 Notice , the right hand side is just compounding the rate 12 times . We can rearrange the equation to solve for the monthly rate : r _ { monthly } = ( 1 + r _ { annual } ) ^ ( 1/12 ) - 1 Substituting in r _ { annual } = .12 , we have r _ { monthly } = 0.00949 . So , for an annual rate of 12 % , that corresponds to a monthly rate of about 0.949 % .
That is exactly the situation where ARM loans are recommended . That is , when you are fairly sure you will be out of the house before the rate adjusts . If you are absolutely sure you will be out of the house in a short amount of time LIBOR and loans with a balloon payment also can keep your costs down . Disclaimer : I definitely do n't recommend these loan types ( especially the later ) if you are n't absolutely sure you will be selling the house in the short term .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
No . ETFs that invest in commodities and grantor trusts ( HOLDRs ) are not covered by the Investment Company Act of 1940 . The prospectus usually states this in the risks section . For example , the GLD ETF 's prospectus says : Shareholders do not have the protections associated with ownership of shares in an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or the protections afforded by the CEA . As a buyer , you need to understand what you are buying . Some " ETFs " are n't really ETFs at all ... I 'd suggest reading <URL> as a starting place .
It can be done , but it takes a very special set of circumstances : You must be willing to buy only items that you can get for free or nearly free . You must be willing to buy as many items as the store will allow you to in a single visit The store must offer programs like double or triple manufacturers coupons . You must be willing to do everything you can to get as many coupons as you can . You must take advantage of the store loyalty programs . You must have many hours free to plan these types of events , and to gather all the required coupons . Plus the time to get that many items off the shelves and into the carts . And the most important item - There must be some extraordinary deal at that store that day or that week that allows them to essentially give you free money . If you want to buy only the products you like , in quantities that you need , at the closest store to your house you ca n't reach those levels . When you read about these types of shoppers keep in mind they are not going to this extreme to do their regular grocery shopping .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
<URL> . At the start of 1945 , a good portion of the male population of the United States was in the armed forces . As the war ended , they came home . Nine months later , there was an uncommonly large number of pregnancies and a population surge . In 2008 , the first of those babies became eligible for Social Security retirement ( at the age of 62 ) . The Baby Boom ended in 1964 , so many are still in their peak earning years . Older people generally make more money in real terms than they did when younger , so the last years before retirement are the best . Under current rules , the last of the baby boomers will be eligible for retirement in 2026 and will have to take Social Security by 2035 . The ratio of workers to retirees is expected to drop from around three to one down to around two to one . Also note that while the fund has n't actually fallen since the 1982 changes , from 1999 to 2009 , it increased by more than $ 100 billion every year . In the last few years , it has increased by as little as $ 25.586 billion ( in 2015 ) . It bounced back a bit in 2016 , but another recession would likely push it into the negative . And even without a recession , it will likely go negative within ten years . In a comment you said : That article says that increasing the tax to 14.4 % would save it . But it was higher than that when I retired . This is untrue . The tax is currently ( and has been since the eighties ) 6.2 % on the individual and 6.2 % on the employer for a total of 12.4 % . You may be counting Medicare as well , which is an additional 1.45 % on both for most people . That 's a total of 15.3 % for both Social Security and Medicare . That starts with the first dollar of income , no deductions . The proposed increase to 7.2 % on both payers would make the combined total 17.3 % .
end question
start question
Does Reuters provide the 4pm London Spot rate for currencies ?
The interpretation is correct . The Reuters may give you the London 4PM rates if you query after the close for the day . The close rate is treated as the rate . <URL> The London 4PM rate may be obtained from Bank of England at the link below ; <URL> Or any other Bank that provides such data
Do n't ever , ever , ever let someone else handle your money , unless you want somebody else have your money . Nobody can guarantee a return on stocks . That 's utter bullshit . Stock go up and down according to market emotions . How can your guru predict the market 's future emotions ? Keep your head cool with stocks . Only buy when you are ' sure ' you are not going to need the money in the next 10 years . Buy obligations before stocks , invest in ' defensive ' stocks before investing in ' aggressive ' stocks . Keep more money in obligations and defensive stock than in aggressive stocks . See how you can do by yourself . Before buying ( or selling ) anything , think about the risks , the market , the expert 's opinion about this investment , etc. . Set a target for selling ( and adjust the target according to the performance of the stock ) . Before investing , try to learn about investing , really . I 've made my mistakes , you 'll make yours , let 's hope they 're not the same :)
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
You will want to focus on how much is needed for retirement , and what types of investments within the current 401K offerings will get you there . Also will need to discuss non-401K investments such as an IRA , college savings , savings for a house , and an emergency fund . The 401K should be a part of your overall financial picture , how much you invest in the 401K depends on the options you have ( Roth 401K available ) , how much matching ( some a little or a lot ) , and your family plans . You have a few choices : Your company through the 401K provider may provide this service . They may have limited knowledge in what non-401K funds you should invest in , but should be able to discuss types of investment . Fee only planner . They will be able to discus types of investments , and give you some suggestions . Because they do n't work on a commission they will not make the investment for you . You need to be able to make the actual selection of investments , so make sure you get criteria to focus on as part of the package . Commission based planner . Will make money off your investment choices . May steer you towards investments that their company offers or ones that offer them the best commissions in that investment type . If the 401K does n't use funds that the planner can research you will need to provide a copy of the prospectus provided by the 401K . My suggestion is the fee only planner . They balance the limited focus of the 401K company without limiting themselves to the funds their company sells . Before sitting down with the planner get in writing how they fee structure works . A flat fee or hourly fee planner will be expecting you to do all the investment work . This is what you want . Let the fee only planner help you define your plan . But also reanalyze the plan every few years as your needs change .
tl ; dr : Because you have been aggressively paying off your mortgage , you do n't have much time left on your mortgage . If you continue to pay off your mortgage at this rate , it will most likely not be worth it for you to refinance . When evaluating a refinance , you need to calculate the payback time . This is the time it will take for the money you are saving on interest with your new rate to make up for the cost of refinancing ( closing costs ) . Here is your original amortization schedule for your current mortgage ( monthly payment of $ 910 , total interest cost $ 41,800 ) : ( <URL> ) However , you have been paying early . ( Nice ! ) If you were to make the normal $ 910 monthly payment from here on out and not pay anything early anymore , your mortgage will end on March 2021 , which is 5 years early . ( <URL> ) If you continue to pay early at the rate that you have been paying ( I estimate that you have been paying an extra $ 675 per month ) , your mortgage will end on September 2018 , three years from today . ( total interest cost : $ 19,900 ; interest between now and the end : $ 3,200 ) ( <URL> ) If you are planning on continuing to pay off your mortgage at the rate that you have been paying , this does n't give you a whole lot of time to get your closing costs back in saved interest . Let 's assume that you are planning on paying off your mortgage at the same rate that you have been paying it . Closing costs and interest rates can vary , but for the sake of discussion , let 's say that you can refinance today for 3.125 % , and the closing costs will be $ 2000 . The normal amortization schedule for your new , 15 year mortgage would look like this : ( $ 370 monthly payment , $ 13,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) At the rate you 've been paying ( about $ 1585 per month ) , if you continue this after you refinance , your mortgage will be done about 3 years from now . ( $ 2,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) Looking at your two options , if you do not refinance , you will be paying about $ 3,200 in interest before your mortgage is paid off . If you refinance now , you 'll be paying about $ 2,500 in interest , a difference of $ 700 . It is very unlikely that you will be able to refinance for less than $ 700 in closing costs , so I would say that it is not worth it for you to refinance .
The current FED 's spend is to encourage spends by putting in more liquidity , SOME of this funds [ directly or indirectly ] reach emerging markets and get invested in stocks ... so without these forex inflows , the Balance of Payments would be under pressure ... so these forex are artificially keeping the Exchange rate down . For example the USD vs INR rate was in the range of 1 USD to around INR 50 for nearly 4-5 years . In the period the inflation in India was around 10-15 % , so ideally the rate should have slowly moved towards INR 60 , however it took a news of FED cut-back to more the rates in the range of INR 65 before stabilizing to Rs 60
This is a very important question and you will find arguments from both sides , in part because it is still understudied . Ben Golub , Economics Ph.D. , from Stanford answers " <URL> " on Quoram quite well . This is an important but understudied question . There are few published academic studies on it , though several groups are working on the subject . You may be interested in the following papers : <URL> <URL> These document some of the phenomena that arise in high frequency trading , from a theoretical and an empirical perspective . However , a full equilibrium analysis of the unique features of high frequency trading is still missing , and until it is done , all our answers will be kind of tentative . Nevertheless , there are some obvious things one can say . Currently , high frequency traders are competing to locate physically closer and closer to exchanges , because milliseconds matter . Thus , large amounts of money are being spent to beat other market makers by tiny fractions of a second . Once many firms make these investments , the market looks like it did before in terms of competition and prices , but is a tiny bit faster . This investment is unlikely to be socially efficient : that is , the users of the market do n't actually benefit from the fact that their trades are executed half a millisecond faster -- certainly not enough to cover all the investment that went into making that happen . Some people who study the issue believe that high frequency trading ( HFT ) actually exacerbates market volatility ; some plots to this effect are found in the second paper linked above . There is certainly no widely accepted theory that says faster trading technology necessarily increases efficiency , and it is easy to think of algorithms that can make money ( at least in the short run ) but hurt most other investors , as well as the informational value of the market . One caution is that some of the complaining about HFT comes from those who lose when HFT gets better -- old-style market makers . They certainly have an incentive to make HFT out to be very bad . So some complaints about the predatory nature of HFT should be taken with a grain of salt . There is no strong economic consensus about the value of this activity . For what it 's worth , my personal impression is that this is more bad than good . I 'll post an update here as more definitive research comes out . You can also find a debate on <URL> from the Economist which gives both sides of the argument . In conclusion : Regardless of how you feel about HFT it seems like it 's here to stay and wo n't be leaving in the foreseeable future . So the debate will rage on ... Additional resource you may finding interesting : <URL> <URL> <URL>
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
At the end of the day , what maters is your return in your currency . Why ? Let 's say I own a fund of a country experiencing a 20 % inflation rate . So , the Elbonia index is up 30 % year on year , and that 's fine , but if I bring it back to my own currency , the exchange rate has accounted , to an extent , for the inflation , so it 's up about 10 % in my currency . And the Elbonians see 30 % , but a real increase of 10 % . In my personal situation , my ETFs are priced in $ US , so the exchange rate is embedded in the changing prices .
If you were directly invested in government bonds then you would pay no tax , but ANY pass through entity ( whether a fund or even a 401K ) nullifies that tax status where the existence of the pass through entity creates its own tax event . From my understand you would simply pay the applicable capital gains tax ( short term or long term ) and would not qualify for any bond government bond related tax breaks .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
$ 50k is a big unsecured loan -- not sure where you 'll find someone willing to do that . I 'd say your best bet is to start paying down the smallest accounts , regardless of rate , to free up cash flow . Having paid off credit lines will help you maintain an ok debt to credit line ratio . As far as consolidation loans , I would try to find a lender that will let you swap high interest loans with lower interest loans in the 9-14 % range , my guess is that you 'll get no more than $ 10k . You 'll probably want to start talking to local credit unions and small banks and find out what products they have to help you . It 's critical to stay current with all accounts , as things will spiral out of control once you default -- the other banks will start cutting your credit lines and hitting you with overlimit fees and interest rate hikes .
It 's simply supply and demand . First , demand : If you 're an importer trying to buy from overseas , you 'll need foreign currency , maybe Euros . Or if you want to make a trip to Europe you 'll need to buy Euros . Or if you 're a speculator and think the USD will fall in value , you 'll probably buy Euros . Unless there 's someone willing to sell you Euros for dollars , you ca n't get any . There are millions of people trying to exchange currency all over the world . If more want to buy USD , than that demand will positively influence the price of the USD ( as measured in Euros ) . If more people want to buy Euros , well , vice versa . There are so many of these transactions globally , and the number of people and the nature of these transactions change so continuously , that the prices ( exchange rates ) for these currencies fluctuate continuously and smoothly . Demand is also impacted by what people want to buy and how much they want to buy it . If people generally want to invest their savings in stocks instead of dollars , i.e. , if lots of people are attempting to buy stocks ( by exchanging their dollars for stock ) , then the demand for the dollar is lower and the demand for stocks is higher . When the stock market crashes , you 'll often see a spike in the exchange rate for the dollar , because people are trying to exchange stocks for dollars ( this represents a lot of demand for dollars ) . Then there 's " Supply : " It may seem like there are a fixed number of bills out there , or that supply only changes when Bernanke prints money , but there 's actually a lot more to it than that . If you 're coming from Europe and want to buy some USD from the bank , well , how much USD does the bank " have " and what does it mean for them to have money ? The bank gets money from depositors , or from lenders . If one person puts money in a deposit account , and then the bank borrows that money from the account and lends it to a home buyer in the form of a mortgage , the same dollar is being used by two people . The home buyer might use that money to hire a carpenter , and the carpenter might put the dollar back into a bank account , and the same dollar might get lent out again . In economics this is called the " multiplier effect . " The full supply of money being used ends up becoming harder to calculate with this kind of debt and re-lending . Since money is something used and needed for conducting of transactions , the number of transactions being conducted ( sometimes on credit ) affects the " supply " of money . Demand and supply blur a bit when you consider people who hoard cash . If I fear the stock market , I might keep all my money in dollars . This takes cash away from companies who could invest it , takes the cash out of the pool of money being used for transactions , and leaves it waiting under my mattress . You could think of my hoarding as a type of demand for currency , or you could think of it as a reduction in the supply of currency available to conduct transactions . The full picture can be a bit more complicated , if you look at every way currencies are used globally , with swaps and various exchange contracts and futures , but this gives the basic story of where prices come from , that they are not set by some price fixer but are driven by market forces . The bank just facilitates transactions . If the last price ( exchange rate ) is 1.2 Dollars per Euro , and the bank gets more requests to buy USD for Euros than Euros for USD , it adjusts the rate downwards until the buying pressure is even . If the USD gets more expensive , at some point fewer people will want to buy it ( or want to buy products from the US that cost USD ) . The bank maintains a spread ( like buy for 1.19 and sell for 1.21 ) so it can take a profit . You should think of currency like any other commodity , and consider purchases for currency as a form of barter . The value of currency is merely a convention , but it works . The currency is needed in transactions , so it maintains value in this global market of bartering goods/services and other currencies . As supply and demand for this and other commodities/goods/services fluctuate , so does the quantity of any particular currency necessary to conduct any of these transactions . A official " basket of goods " and the price of those goods is used to determine consumer price indexes / inflation etc. . The official price of this particular basket of goods is not a fundamental driver of exchange rates on a day to day basis .
From <URL> : Although pharmacy coverage is an optional benefit under federal Medicaid law , all States currently provide coverage for outpatient prescription drugs to all categorically eligible individuals and most other enrollees within their Medicaid programs . This is related to the <URL> , which offsets the Federal and State costs of most outpatient prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients . Approximately 600 drug manufacturers currently participate in this program . All fifty States and the District of Columbia cover prescription drugs under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program I ca n't give you any specific details about patient assistance programs , but <URL> links to information about various patient assistance programs and general information about Medicaid 's and Medicare 's prescription drug offerings . It 's conceivable that you may be eligible for a patient assistance program but not Medicaid ( for all I know , the reverse may be true ) but it 's difficult to tell without contacting the specific company . Some patient assistance programs only apply to generic versions of the drug , while some state Medicaid programs will pay for brand names . Obviously this varies from state to state .
Can he use an existing credit card in his name for all his business expenses , or does that pierce the corporate veil ? That would be a question to a lawyer , since there 's no definitive answer but rather circumstantial . Generally it is safer to separate the finances completely than to try and guess what the court would rule if it comes to that . It is not hard to get a separate card for a LLC ( especially if it is a sole proprietorship ) . We are going to buy a house soon , so I do n't want any extra inquiries . I guess it depends on the bank and the type of card . My Citi business card does n't show up on my personal credit report .
The prices are not correlated by the exchanges , but there a host of arbitragers out there who will immediately pounce if the prices drift out of line by the slightest fraction , buying on the cheaper exchange while simultaneously selling on the more expensive exchange , and in practice this keeps the prices the same .
The total size of the eurozone economy is $ 13 trillion , whereas Switzerland 'd GDP is about $ 0.5 trillion , so the eurozone is about 26 times larger . As such , I would not expect this move to have a large effect on the eurozone economy . On the margins , this may decrease somewhat eurozone exports to Switzerland and increase imports from Switzerland , so this would be a slight negative for eurozone growth . Switzerland accounts for 5.2 % of the EU 's imports , and these imports will now be slightly cheaper , which puts some deflationary pressure on the EU , particularly in the Swiss-specialized industries of chemicals , medicinal products , machinery , instruments and time pieces . But overall , 5.2 % is a rather small proportion . Bottom line , most common eurozone countries ' people should probably not fret too much about this announcement . What it means for Switzerland and Swiss citizens , however , is a totally different ( and much more interesting ) question .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
You find a broker who handles futures accounts . Search on the word Forex and you 'll find a number of companies happy to take your money . I trust you understand how futures work , the contract values , margin requirements , etc ? You just do n't have an account yet , right ?
The scenario you mention regarding capital gains is pretty much the core of the issue . Here 's a run-down from <URL> that explains it a bit . It 's important to focus on it being the tax rate , not the tax amount ( which I think you get , but I want to reinforce that for other readers ) . Basically , most of Buffett 's income comes from capital gains and dividends , income from investments he makes with the money he already has . Income earned by buying and selling stocks or from stock dividends is generally taxed at 15 percent , the rate for long-term capital gains and qualified dividends . Buffett also mentioned that some of the " mega-rich " are hedge fund managers " who earn billions from our daily labors but are allowed to classify our income as ' carried interest , ' thereby getting a bargain 15 percent tax rate . " We do n't know the taxes paid by Buffett 's secretary , who was mentioned by Obama but not by Buffett . Buffet 's secretary would have to make a high salary , or else typical deductions ( such as the child tax credit ) would offset taxes owed . Let 's say the secretary is a particularly well-compensated executive assistant , making adjusted income more than $ 83,600 in income . ( Yes , that sounds like a lot to us , too , but remember : We 're talking about the secretary to one of the richest people in the world . ) In that case , marginal tax rates of 28 percent would apply . Then , there would be payroll taxes of 6.25 percent on the first $ 106,800 , money that goes to Social Security , and another 1.45 percent on all income , which goes to Medicare . The secretary 's overall tax rate would be lower than 28 percent , since not all the income would be taxed at that rate , only the income above $ 83,600 . Buffett , meanwhile , would pay very little , if anything , in payroll taxes . In the New York Times op-ed , Buffett said he paid 17.4 percent in taxes . Thinking of the secretary , it gets a little complicated , given how the tax brackets work , but basically , people who make between $ 100,000 and $ 200,000 are paying around 20 percent in federal taxes , including payroll and income taxes , according to an analysis from the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center . So in this case , the secretary 's rate is higher because so much of Buffett 's income comes from investments and is taxed at the lower capital gains rate . Here 's Buffet 's <URL> for those of you that are n't familiar .
end question
start question
If I have n't filed in 2 years , does year 1 's refund automatically apply to year 2 and prevent penalty ?
You will owe penalty to file for year 1 and penalty for failure to file and penalty for failure to pay for year 2 . Penalty for year 1 will be moot , since no tax is due , but the IRS does n't know it until you file a return . If you do n't - they 'll " make up " a return on your behalf based on the information they have , and assess taxes and penalties based on that . Refunds are not applied automatically . The fact that you think you have a refund ( that IRS does n't know of , since you have n't submitted the forms ) does n't mean you owe less the next year . However , if you 're on an installment agreement or in collection , once the refund approved , it will be applied to your existing debt in other years before being distributed to you ( what 's left ) . The penalty for failure to file is quite high , including interest . I suggest taking care of this ASAP , and I also suggest to have a licensed professional ( EA or CPA licensed in your State ) help you with this .
If I file a tax return this year and get a refund ( things have changed dramatically since last year ) , will the government keep the difference automatically ? Yes . If I do n't file a tax return this year , or the government does n't keep the difference automatically , how do I pay the IRS what I owe ? Not filing a tax return will lead to additional penalties and taxes , so do file . Regardless - you pay by check . You mail it to the IRS center assigned to you based on the residence address , see the instructions to form 1040 . You can also submit a form authorizing direct debit from your checking account . If you pay by check - write down your SSN and the relevant tax year in the MEMO of the check . The cancelled check is your receipt . The sooner you pay the less the interest and penalties will be .
The rule defines a wash sale as one that occurs when an individual sells or trades a security at a loss , and within 30 days before or after this sale , buys a " substantially identical " stock or security , or acquires a contract or option to do so . <URL> Does n't matter whether purchase or sale happened first , wash sale rules apply In your example you would have a net gain from the two sales so it would n't matter . Let 's use a different example . Let 's say I buy stock XYZ in January . 100 shares at $ 30/share . Now December comes around and it 's down to 20/share so on December 20th I sell so I can write off the loss on my taxes . Now on the 21st I buy those shares back for 20/share . Wash sale rules prevent me from writing off the loss on my taxes , instead I must adjust the basis of my new shares . The same would be true if instead I had bought 100 now shares on the 20th and sold 100 a day later in the 21st . Wash sale rules would still prevent me from counting that loss .
If you do n't know the refund amount - how exactly do you expect anything to be filed ? The CPA can not file anything on your behalf without you signing <URL> - which has the refund amount printed on it . You should have signed this form and received a copy of the tax return , otherwise - the CPA can not file anything . In case your CPA is a crook and filed your tax return without your authorization - you 'll see it on your IRS transcript . I wrote a <URL> . However , CPA doing so may very easily lose the license , so I doubt that it happened in your case . More likely than not your CPA just did n't do it on time . If it results in any penalties for you - you can demand the CPA to cover it ( but not the actual tax - that is yours ) . If you 're due refund there will be no penalties .
The difference between an American and European option is that the American option can be exercised at any time , whereas the European option can be liquidated only on the settlement date . The American option is " continuous time " instrument , while the European option is a " point in time " instrument . Black Scholes applies to the latter , European , option . Under " certain " ( but by no means all ) circumstances , the two are close enough to be regarded as substitutes . One of their disciples , Robert Merton , " tweaked " it to describe American options . There are debates about this , and other tweaks , years later .
Neither TurboTax nor H&amp;R Block are intended for Non-Resident filers . You should continue using GLACIER if you have access to it , or talk to a professional tax preparer ( EA/CPA licensed in your State or a properly accredited tax preparer ) who 's experienced with foreigners filing NR returns . Knowing how many days you were in or out of the country is not enough , your immigration status matters , and also your citizenship . During the first 5 years , most students are considered non-residents if they 're in F1/J1 status and the days of their presence while in that status do n't count . For citizens of some countries , this period is not limited , due to the tax treaty , and the days of their presence do n't count even after the 5 years , as long as they 're in J1/F1 status . If you are considered resident in the US for the whole year - you do not get any " rebate " for the days you were out of country .
Yes , your realtor is a moron . ( I am a realtor , and sorry you have such a bad one ) Every industry has its good and bad . You really should find a new realtor , a good one . You know the 1031 exchange is for rental property only . And that saving $ 2000 is n't worth staying in the house to complete the two years required occupancy .
Yes , transferring in to an ISA does not count as subscribing to it , and it is subscriptions that are limited to one per year . See eg <URL> - I wo n't paste an excerpt as it really needs the context of all the answers on the page , but in summary it supports my " Yes you can " above . By the way , if you want a definitive answer from HMRC you can ring their <URL> : ISA Helpline For general enquiries about tax rules on ISAs and more information on Junior ISAs Individual Savings Account Helpline is part of the Savings Helpline Opening hours 8.00 am to 8.00 pm , Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.00 pm Saturday 08456041701
Answer : something in-between . There are two key parts to the determination of wheater a person can deposit money under the single plan or the family plan : Situation on December first Situation each month . Here is the info on <URL> with instructions From Line 3 of Form 8889 : If you were under age 55 at the end of 2013 , and on the first day of every month during 2013 , you were , or were considered , an eligible individual with the same coverage , enter $ 3,250 ( $ 6,450 for family coverage ) . All others , see the instructions for the amount to enter ... From the instructions for line 1 If you were covered , or considered covered , by a self-only HDHP and a family HDHP at different times during the year , check the box for the plan that was in effect for a longer period . If you were covered by both a self-only HDHP and a family HDHP at the same time , you are treated as having family coverage during that period . If , on the first day of the last month of your tax year , December 1 for most taxpayers , you had family coverage , check the " family " box . For the instructions for Line 3 : You see which option applies to you . In the most difficult case you take the first of each month and answer single or family . If single then that month is credited with the annual amount for single , if family then that month is credited with the annual amount for family . Add them up and divide by 12 . That is what you can contribute/deduct for the year .
Its based on demand and supply and what Bank think the future rates would be . Today Banks in India have a liquidity crunch as the Repo Rates by Reserve Bank of India [ Central Bank ] are high . Bank want to encourage more people to deposit money and hence are offering higher rates . Banks also believe that once the Inflation is under control , the Central Bank would ease the repo rates . This is likely to happen in a years time . Hence Banks one year down want to lower the Fixed Deposit rates . So essentially they would be at loss if they give higher rates for longer periods . So they are offering the highest rates for a period of year which motivates more people to invest for a year , even if they want to stay invested for long .
You need to sift through the return to uncover the source of this discrepancy . You are correct , a rental put in service for 10 months with have 5/6 the depreciation of a full year . Something else is going on .
I know some companies or entities have large incomes or expenses at certain times of the year , and like to close their books after these large events . For example where I work , the primary seasonal income comes after summer , so our fiscal year ends at the last days of October . This gives the accountants enough time to collect all the funds , reconcile whatever they have to , pay off whatever they have to and get working on a budget for the next year sooner than a calendar year would . There also might be tax reasons . To get all of your income at the beginning of your fiscal year , even if that is in the middle of the calendar year would allow a company to plan large deductible investments with more certainty . I am not to sure of the tax reasons .
Amounts on line 1 of the K-1 are translated into taxable income to you . Amounts on line 16 of the K-1 with code D are translated into reduction of your cost basis for the shares . If your cost basis is already $ 0 - they are <URL> . You need to track and adjust your cost basis in the shares . When you sell your shares - you 'll pay capital gains tax on the difference between the proceeds and the adjusted basis . When distributions wipe out your basis , further distributions are treated as gains , and taxed at the year distributed . So at the end of 2014 , your adjusted cost basis in these shares is $ 3000 : $ 4000 you paid - $ 1000 you got back ( distribution on line 16 with code D ) .
You report it when the expense was incurred/accrued . Which is , in your case , 2014 . There 's no such thing as " accounts payable " on tax forms , it is an account on balance sheet , but most likely it is irrelevant for you since your LLC is probably cash-based . The reimbursement is a red-herring , what matters is when you paid the money .
This question brings back memories . Short answer : get the three car garage ! It 's the best $ 5k you 'll ever spend . Long answer : I bought my house many years ago , new construction , and made a choice to get the model with the 2-car garage instead of the one with the 3-car garage across the street because the price difference was $ 15k . The houses were otherwise identical . My thinking at the time : " No way I 'm spending $ 15k for a garage spot ! " Oh , the regrets I have today ! I envy my neighbors with the extra garage space . Yes , I only have two cars , but storage space is tight , my workbench is impossible to use without backing the car out to the driveway , and I wish I had spent the money . There will be another driver in the house in a few years and I do n't have the option of garaging a third car . How I wish I could go back in time and slap some sense into my younger self . For $ 5k , I think it 's a no-brainer . In 10 + years , my guess is that the houses with the 3-car garage will have appreciated much more than $ 5k in value than the houses with just 2-car garages . Like I said , I have regrets .
Cheques issued by Canadian Government agencies do not expire . Any financial institution one has a relationship with should be willing to cash the cheque . Update : If she does not have the cheque she should contact her nearest CRA office about canceling the original and re-issuing another . Specifically in that order , since she would want to avoid this <URL> where someone else cashed the first cheque and then the recipient ended up in a dispute where the CRA claimed the refund was issued twice and demanded the money back with interest . Good luck !
Yes , you can still make a 2013 Roth IRA contribution before the tax filing deadline . But be sure to check the income limitations for making Roth IRA contributions . High earners ( defined differently for different filing status ) are not permitted to make Roth IRA contributions . If you are expecting to get a refund on your 2013 tax return , you can even file early and use the refund toward your 2013 Roth IRA contribution . Note that Roth IRA contributions are not declared on your income tax return and so it is not necessary to file an amended return after making the Roth contribution ( see this <URL> , pointed out by @JoeTaxpayer , for details on how the IRS knows that you have made a Roth IRA contribution ) . Indeed , if the refund does not come in time and you choose to not make a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 after all ( or decide to make a reduced contribution ) , no paperwork needs to be done by you . You can also make Traditional IRA contributions after filing your tax return but before the deadline , and use the tax refund from the 2013 tax return towards the 2013 IRA contributions . However , if the tax refund is not received in time , and you choose to reduce your 2013 Traditional IRA contribution ( or not make it at all ) , then an amended return is required ( and you owe tax or will get a reduced refund ) because you have already declared that you will be making a Traditional IRA contribution ( and deducted that amount ) when you filed your income tax return early and computed that you overpaid and will be getting a refund .
No not deductible . But - If you work more than one job , you run the risk of having too much SS withheld . Each employer does n't know what the others pays you . Tax time reconciles this . And much thanks to Dilip for the following clarification - Not only does each employer not know what the others pays you , but even if you tell him , he will not care . He is required to withhold Social Security tax on the wages he pays you ( and send in an equal amount as his contribution ) regardless of what anyone else pays you . If the sum of your taxable wages from all employers exceed the maximum wages subject to Social Security , the excess withholding is credited towards the income tax due ( and thus reduces the amount to be paid or increases the refund you are owed ) but the employer 's ( excess ) contribution that he sent in is not returned to him ... Also , there is no such things as excess Medicare tax having been withheld because there is no maximum wage beyond which Medicare tax does not apply .
From the <URL> this image answers the question . The above is meant as an explanation of the numbering system , as described by Zacks , not a personal endorsement or comment of any kind regarding the system success .
Where you can put the money really depends on your risk tolerance . You could take $ 50k and put it into a good share class municipal and government bond fund that would likely be tax exempt . In a few years span I do n't think you 're likely to lose much in a tax-managed bond fund but it 's certainly possible ! Here is a link for Vanguard tax-exempt bond funds by state of residency : <URL> These funds have returns well exceeding CD 's or standard savings accounts . Risk of loss is real , but returns are possible .
end question
start question
Why would you ever turn down a raise in salary ?
I do n't know of a situation where rejecting a raise would make sense . Often , one can be in a phaseout of some benefit , so that even though you 're in a certain tax bracket , the impact of the next $ 100 is greater than the bracket rate alone . Taxation of social security benefits is one such anomaly . It can be high , but never over 100 % . Update - The Affordable Care Act contains such an anomaly - go to the <URL> , and see the benefit a family of three might receive . A credit for up to $ 4631 toward their health care insurance cost . But , increase the income to above $ 78120 Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) and the benefit drops to zero . The fact that the next dollar of income will cost you $ 4631 in the lost credit is an example of a step-function in the tax code . I 'd still not turn down the raise , but I 'd ask that it be deposited to my 401 ( k ) . And when reconciling my taxes each April , I 'd use an IRA in case I still went over a bit . Consider , it 's April , and your MAGI is $ 80,120 . Even if you do n't have to cash to deposit to the IRA , you borrow it , from a 24 % credit card if need be . Because the $ 2000 IRA will trigger not just $ 300 less Federal tax , but a $ 4631 health care credit . Note - the above example will apply to a limited , specific group who are funding their own health care expense and paying above a certain percent of income . It 's not a criticism of ACA , just a mathematical observation appropriate to this question . For those in this situation , a close look at their projected MAGI is in order .
I would guess that before the spin-off , more money would be available In my experience the reverse is true . The finance folks go into overdrive tightening everything up so that budget forecasts for the transition period are as accurate and predictable as possible . This can be true 6 months out , 12 months out , etc - depending on the size and complexity of the business . So in terms of when to renegotiate , I think approaching the issue after the dust has settled is more realistic . Make sure you know your numbers as per normal and just remember that after the spin-off has occurred it 's a business like any other business : if you are in position to negotiate ( and reasonably expect ) a raise then the fact that they spun off recently - a month or two before - is meaningless to the negotiation .
It is true that all else being equal , you will pay a lower amount of total interest by paying down your highest interest rate debts first . However , all else is not always equal . I 'm going to try to come up with some reasons why it might be better in some circumstances to pay your debts in a different order . And I 'll try to use as much math as possible . :) Let 's say that your goal is to eliminate all of your debt as fast as possible . The faster you do this , the lower the total interest that you will pay . Now , let 's consider the different methods that you could take to get there : You could pay the highest interest first , you could pay the lowest interest first , or you could pay something in the middle first . No matter which path you choose , the quicker you pay everything off , the lower total interest you will pay . In addition to that , the quicker you pay everything off , the difference in total interest paid between the most optimal method and the least optimal method will be less . To put this in mathematical notation : limt  0  Interest ( t ) = 0 Given that , anything we can do to speed up the time it takes to get to " debt free " is to our advantage . When paying large amounts of debt as fast as possible , sacrifice is needed . And this means that psychology comes into play . I do n't know about you , but for me , gamifying the system makes everything easier . ( After all , gamification is what gets us to write answers here on SE . ) One way to do this is to eliminate individual debts as quickly as possible . For example , let 's say that I 've got 10 debts . 5 of them are for $ 1k each . 3 of them are for $ 5k each , 1 is a $ 20k car loan , and 1 is a $ 100k mortgage . Each one has a monthly payment . Let 's say that I 've got $ 3k sitting in the bank that I want to use to kickstart my debt reduction . I could pay all $ 3k toward one of my larger loans , or I could immediately pay off 3 of my 10 loans . Ignore interest for the moment , and let 's say that we are going to pay off the smallest loans first . When I eliminate these three loans , three of my monthly payments are also gone . Now let 's say that with the money I was paying toward these eliminated debts , and some other money I was able to scrape together $ 500 a month that I want to use toward debt reduction . In four months , I 've eliminated the last two $ 1k debts , and I 'm down to 5 debts instead of 10 . Achievement Unlocked ! Instead of this strategy , I could have paid toward my largest interest rate . Let 's say that was one of the $ 5k loans . I paid the $ 3k toward the bank to it , and because I still had all the monthly payments after that , I was only able to scrape together $ 400 a month extra toward debt reduction . In four months , I still have 10 debts . Now let 's say that after these four months , I have a bad month , and some unexpected expenses come up . If I 've eliminated 5 of my debts , my monthly payments are less , and I 'll have an easier month then I would have had if I still had 10 monthly payments to deal with . Each time I eliminate a debt , the amount extra I have each month to tackle the remaining debts gets bigger . And if your goal is eliminating debt quickly , these early wins can really help motivate you on . It really feels like you are getting somewhere when your monthly bills go down . It also helps you with the debt free mindset . You start to see a future where you are n't sending payments to the banks each month . This method of paying your smaller debts first has been popularized in recent years by Dave Ramsey , and he calls it the debt snowball method . There might be other reasons why you would pick one debt over another to pay first . For example , let 's say that one of your loans is with a bank that has terrible customer service . They do n't send you bills on time , they process your payment late , their website stinks , they are a constant source of stress , and you are getting sick of them . That would be a great reason to pay that debt first , and never set foot in that bank again . In conclusion : If you have a constant amount of extra cash each month that you are going to use to reduce your debt , and this will never change , then , yes , you will save money over the long run by paying the highest interest debt first . However , if you are trying to eliminate your debt as fast as possible , and you are sacrificing in your budget , sending every extra penny you can scrape together toward debt reduction , the " snowball " method of knocking out the small debts first can help motivate you to continue to sacrifice toward your goal , and can also ease the cash flow situation in difficult months when you find yourself with less extra to send in .
The biotechnology sector as a whole is a popular buy recommendation among some analysts these days for a few reasons . Some analysts feel that the high costs in R&amp;D , even without much profit , are a positive sign for growth because it means a company is working towards finding the next " blockbuster drug " or the next class of such drugs . There have n't been many new classes of blockbuster drugs since the development of <URL> and <URL> , and many of the new drugs that have been developed have been tweaks to existing classes of drugs . Some analysts feel that " it 's about time " for a new class of blockbuster drugs to hit the market . A new blockbuster drug means significant profits for the company that develops it ; a new class of blockbuster drugs means significant profits for the whole industry . Since about 2009 , the Food and Drug Administration has been more lenient in its approval of new drugs . This wave of new approvals has reduced R&amp;D costs for companies because they do n't need to go back to the lab or earlier phases of clinical trials and continually tweak their drugs in order to gain approval . This has also made some analysts optimistic . Genetic engineering is considered an up-and-coming field with potentially significant applications to the pharmaceutical industry . Advances in this field may increase profits for the pharm industry , but since biotech companies are often the ones producing the engineering equipment , research , etc. such advances could be a major source of revenue for the entire biotech industry . In the US and in the developed world as a whole , the elderly population is growing , and since people consume more medicine as they grow older , this could lead to higher profits for companies involved in the production of pharmaceuticals ( which includes biotech companies , of course ) in the long run . In the US , the passage of the <URL> expanded insurance coverage , which gives more people the means to afford pharmaceuticals . Also , in general , people consume more healthcare services when they have insurance ( this is called <URL> ) , so some analysts expect that the expansion of insurance coverage will only lead to more profits for the pharmaceutical industry and biotechnology firms in general . The global food crisis . As the climate changes , companies like Monsanto , which use various forms of genetic engineering to produce crop strains that can survive in increasingly hostile environments , look more and more appealing to places that need crops designed to grow in such environments . Any methods that could increase yields look increasingly popular , and biotechnology companies often market such methods . ( As a side note , I know Monsanto is a contentious example , and there are a lot of misconceptions about " genetically modified food " and the genetic engineering methods they do , so I wo n't get into a debate about that ) . In general , technology is a popular subject right now . I 've read analyst reports ( from analysts that clearly do n't follow the biotech sector ) that base their forecasts for the biotech sector on the activities of companies like Dell , Zynga , HP , LinkedIn , Facebook , etc. . Clearly , it 's problematic when an analyst sees the word " technology " and automatically assumes that the biotech sector is responsive to the same factors as social media firms , hardware manufacturers , etc. . This is n't to say that the biotech sector is completely isolated from this , but when I read a report that talks about Facebook 's IPO being bad news for companies like Gilead Sciences without mentioning upcoming FDA decisions about Gilead 's products or any biotech-specific factors , I 'm not convinced the analyst has performed due diligence . I keep using the phrase " some analysts " because I want to stress that the opinions stated above are n't universal . Although they 're popular , not everyone is so optimistic . Also , I do n't want you to see these reasons and think that I 'm making a buy recommendation , because I 'm not . I 'm not making a recommendation one way or another . I 'm happy to clarify my answer too ; I follow the biotechnology sector extensively . If you want to get a rough feel for the daily movements of the sector as a whole , a good place to start is <URL> , the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology Index Fund . The four largest holdings are Regeneron , Gilead Sciences , Amgen , and Celgene , which are all big players in the industry ( obviously ) . These are a little different from the big name pharma companies like Pfizer , Merck , Novartis , etc. but they 're still considered pharma companies . It 's also worthwhile to follow the <URL> . By the time the news is published there , it 's probably already leaked or known to people in the industry ( the biotech/pharm sectors are rife with accusations of insider trading ) , so you might not find trading opportunities , but it 's important to get familiar with the information the releases contain if you want to know more about the industry . Volatility trades are always popular trades around FDA drug a
There is no magic involved , merely a change in Fidelity 's analysts ' expectations of the future profitability of some startups . The current value of a firm ( as some other posts indicate ) is the net present value ( NPV ) of all of its future cash flows plus the book value ( the value of the company if it were immediately wound up ) . Future cash flows depend on the economics around the firm in the long distant future , particularly demand , growth in demand , the firm 's ability to fulfil demand at the correct price ( including price elasticities of demand ) , and interaction with any competition in the market . Fidelity 's analysts have looked at their models and understanding of these underlying factors and decided that the NPV is likely to be lower than they had previously stated so they have reduced the stated value of the startups as reflected on their books . I am speculating somewhat here , as an aside , but it seems likely that Fidelity felt that the startups ' in question had too high expected growth given the current state of the world economy . A reduction in expected growth rate reduces all future cash flows and is likely to be more pronounced on profitability as fixed costs are pretty much already sunk . This is partly speculative but hopefully gives some " market colour " to the answer . You also state that Fidelity does not control the operations of the startups at all . which is not true in many of these cases since these are mostly privately held companies ; it is probable that Fidelity is one of , if not THE , largest investor in that company . If Fidelity decided to remove some of its investment capital it would be disastrous to the company and would pretty much make them insolvent unless another significant investor could be found . This gives them a significant presence on , and power over , the boards of these companies . In all it is likely that this write down was done to reflect the fair value of the companies as going concerns given a complex set of economic parameters .
The CEO should be concerned with events that make it possible for the company to be more successful . This could be something that directly led to more sales . It could be being part of the team that won a new contract , or the delivery of code that allowed them to release the next version of the software . It could be something that indirectly led to more sales or more profit . Getting a letter or award from a customer for a job well done is a great thing . It could also be learning a new skill or incorporating a new technology into the products or the workflow . This allows them to add it to the corporate resume . Managers will have a similar list . They want to know what you have done to help them be more successful . Sometimes they will ignore items that help other managers , but sometimes they see the benefit to these extra projects . Sometimes going out on a limb , and only being partially successful can also be considered a victory . I have know employees who volunteered for a position that was outside of their comfort zone in order to allow the company to fill a gap . If they did n't fill the position they would lose money . An employee that does this should be recognized . You should start with listing everything you can think of , and do n't worry about an item being too small . Then pare it down before the final submission . You can either go for a small number of grand slams , or a larger number of homeruns . Do n't try to say the CEO only cares about projects or skills , they frequently want to see both . I would n't include a photo , it should n't be relevant to who gets the bonus . And start working on the list for next year : flag every positive email , note every emergency call , every new skill learned when they happen , not just a few days before the letter is due .
I do n't know of a situation where rejecting a raise would make sense . Often , one can be in a phaseout of some benefit , so that even though you 're in a certain tax bracket , the impact of the next $ 100 is greater than the bracket rate alone . Taxation of social security benefits is one such anomaly . It can be high , but never over 100 % . Update - The Affordable Care Act contains such an anomaly - go to the <URL> , and see the benefit a family of three might receive . A credit for up to $ 4631 toward their health care insurance cost . But , increase the income to above $ 78120 Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) and the benefit drops to zero . The fact that the next dollar of income will cost you $ 4631 in the lost credit is an example of a step-function in the tax code . I 'd still not turn down the raise , but I 'd ask that it be deposited to my 401 ( k ) . And when reconciling my taxes each April , I 'd use an IRA in case I still went over a bit . Consider , it 's April , and your MAGI is $ 80,120 . Even if you do n't have to cash to deposit to the IRA , you borrow it , from a 24 % credit card if need be . Because the $ 2000 IRA will trigger not just $ 300 less Federal tax , but a $ 4631 health care credit . Note - the above example will apply to a limited , specific group who are funding their own health care expense and paying above a certain percent of income . It 's not a criticism of ACA , just a mathematical observation appropriate to this question . For those in this situation , a close look at their projected MAGI is in order .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
Because the federal government wo n't use the money to buy a car thus generating profits for the car company . The aim of cheap loans is to drive sales of cars . The difference between the amount of interest paid on the loan , and the amount they could have got by investing it elsewhere , is simply a reduction in the profit . This is true whatever the actual interest rates are .
How I recognize a silver bubble : It seems like everyone is talking about their latest silver investment . This is similar to tech stocks in the '90s and real estate in the ' 00s . Your plumber is talking about how he is making a fortune in silver . Your brother-in-law is talking about how is making a fortune in silver . New investment products are being announced almost daily offering different ways to invest in silver - indexes , etf 's , mining companies , securitization products , etc. . Many investors talk about how you ca n't go wrong with silver . It 's a " no-brainer " . I do n't think silver is in a bubble . You state : What goes up , must come down I 'm not sure I agree with this . Yes , prices fluctuate . But most prices generally go up over time due to inflation - somethings more than others . Was coffee in a bubble in early 2005 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Was gold in a bubble in Argentina in 2001 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this ( sorry for the mismatching chart scales ) : Was gold in a bubble in Weimar in 1922 ? If you thought so then you would have missed this : Maybe US farmland is in a bubble since prices are rising rather dramatically . I do n't think it is in a bubble since I rarely hear anyone talking about investing in farmland :
Is that an FHA loan you have ? And you 're wanting to do one of those low cost FHA re-fi 's , right ? The answer is that in between when you first got that loan and now , the government 's changed the rules on PMI for FHA loans . It more than doubled the amount of monthly PMI you have to pay . The new rates , efective April 18th , 2011 , as as follows : It used to be . So that 's why the PMI would go up . There is another rule in play too , specific to that no-cost FHA refi -- the government requires that the combined ( principal + interest + pmi ) monthly payment after the refi is at least 4 % lower than the current payment . Note that the no-cost refi does not require a new appraisal . Some options present themselves , but only if you can show some equity in a appraisal : 1 ) if an appraisal shows at least 10 % equity , you can go refi to a standard mortgage . You might even be able to find one that does n't require PMI at that level . If you have 20 % equity , you 're golden -- no pmi . 2 ) See what the monthly payment will be if you refi to the 15 year FHA mortgage . Between the much lower PMI , and the much lower interest rates ( 15 year is usually about 0.75 % less than a 30 year ) , it might not be much more than what you 're paying now . And you 'd save a huge amount of money over time , and get out from that PMI much earlier ( it stops when your principal drops below 80 % of the loan amount ) . This would require that reappraisal .
Yes , it is a very good idea to start your credit history early . It sounds like you have a good understanding of the appropriate use of credit , as a substitute for cash rather than a supplement to income . As long as you keep your expenses under control and pay off your card each month , I see no problems with the idea . Try to find a card with no annual fees , a low interest rate if possible ( which will be difficult at your age ) , and with some form of rewards such as cash back . Look for a reputable issuing bank , and keep the account open even after you get a new card down the road . Your credit score is positively correlated with having an account open for a long time , having a good credit usage to credit limit ratio , and having accounts in good standing and paid on time .
The simple answer : Because you believe every other option can yield greater losses ... So the thinking is ; Lend it to France you 'll get your money back . Put your money in a bank and there 's a chance you wo n't get it back if the bank goes bust . Investors also believe that rates will continue to go more negative , in which case they will actually MAKE money . It 's a momentum play which will eventually reverse but since the Bond market is extremely liquid , it 's a bet that can quickly be unwound . Another theory floating around is that if the weaker countries of the euro leave ( e.g. Greece , etc ) and the core keep the euro , then the value of the euro will actually rise . So by putting your money in French or German bonds you would also be securing cash in French or German euro 's . - <URL> - Gavyn Davies
While it 's common to think of it that way - pay off the interest first , then the principal - that 's not actually how your payments work over time . It 's true of any one payment , though . Interest is earned over time . It might be added on daily , weekly , monthly , or any other frequency . For simplicity 's sake , let 's assume it is added 1/12 * ( apr ) once per month . So you have a 6 % loan , starting at $ 10,000 principal balance . That 's 0.5 % per month ( 6 % / 12 ) . So each month , you owe .005 * ( principal ) in interest . Your first month , then , you owe : You will always pay at least the interest every month . Some payment plans are called " interest-only " ; in those , you pay only that $ 50 per month , and the $ 10,000 never goes down for the interest-only period . ( Of course , eventually you have to start paying principal ... ) Any amount you pay over $ 50 per month , either as part of your payment or as extra ( and extra designated to go to principal - an important distinction ) , will lower that principal . That 's what actually pays off the loan . Since payments to principal reduce the total amount you owe , they also reduce the interest due . So a $ 100 monthly payment , with $ 50 going to interest and $ 50 to principal , would then leave you with , next month : You 'd then pay $ 100 again , with now $ 49.75 paying interest and $ 50.25 paying principal . The reason people think of this as paying interest first , is in particular with some mortgages and longer term repayment plans the far majority ( commonly 80 % , but in some cases higher ) of each payment is allocated to paying the interest on the loan . The way these plans work is that you have a fixed monthly payment for , say , 30 years - but that 's at first nearly entirely interest , because you do n't have to pay much principal off to eventually get the loan paid off . For example , to pay off that loan in 30 years , you 'd only have to pay $ 60 per month - $ 50 for interest initially and $ 10 for principal . Since that principal will slowly rise over time ( as interest slowly drops ) , you end up paying it off . ( 30 years is 360 payments , or about $ 21,600 - so you 're going to pay a lot of interest this way , of course , over 100 % interest over the life of the loan ) . Since you 're only paying $ 10 to principal each month to start with , if you add even a small amount to that payment , you pay it off far faster and pay far less interest . Add $ 15 to your payment - $ 75 instead of $ 60 - and now you 're paying $ 25 to principal instead of $ 10 , meaning you now pay it off in 18 years at that payment structure and pay only a bit over $ 16,000 in total - saving nearly half of the interest . Add $ 40 ( $ 100 per month ) and you now pay it off in closer to 10 years , and pay $ 14,000 in total . Even just add that for the first few years , and you 'll dramatically increase your payoff rate . I recommend using a mortgage payoff calculator , like <URL> which I set up with the above loan , to see how things work out . It shows you the amount going to principal and interest each year , and lets you alter the payments to see how they affect things . Here are charts of the three options , so you can see visually how your payments break down . Like above , this assumes interest is calculated and capitalized monthly ( which may be an oversimplification for your loan , but it does n't change the numbers much ) . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Say we have stock XYZ that costs $ 50 this second . It does n't cost XYZ this second . The market price only reflects the last price at which the security traded . It does n't mean that if you 'll get that price when you place an order . The price you get if/when your order is filled is determined by the bid/ask spreads . Why would people sell below the current price , and not within the range of the bid/ask ? Someone may be willing to sell at an <URL> of $ 47 simply because that 's the best price they think they can sell the security for . Keep in mind that the " someone " may be a computer that determined that $ 47 is a reasonable ask price . Remember that bid/ask spreads are n't fixed , and there can be multiple bid/ask prices in a market at any given time . Your buy order was filled because at the time , someone else in the market was willing to sell you the security for the same price as your <URL> . Your respective buy/sell orders were matched based on their price ( and volume , conditional orders , etc ) . These questions may be helpful to you as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , you say you 're a day trader . If that 's so , I strongly recommend getting a better grasp on the basics of market mechanics before committing any more capital . Trading without understanding how markets work at the most fundamental levels is a recipe for disaster .
I had a <URL> when I graduated college a few months ago , and these are the estimates I first used , with a few tweaks . 35 % of salary as a rough estimate of total taxes . For a salary of $ 70K , that 's $ 24,500 a year . The current contribution limit to an IRA/Roth IRA is $ 5,500 a year . As a recent college grad , it 's definitely smart to max this out . I estimated that my rent would cost $ 1,000 a month , which included rent , utilities , internet , etc. so that 's another $ 12,000 a year . This can vary considerably depending on where you live and your style of living , however . Bankrate has a <URL> that might be helpful in estimating your monthly housing expenses . Your employer will probably match your 401K contributions up to a certain percentage , e.g. 6 % . If you contribute enough to get the entire match , but not more , this is another 6 % of your salary , or 4,200 a year . If you purchase health insurance through your employer , your individual premiums may be a couple hundred a month . My employer has excellent benefits , and my premiums run $ 150 a month , or $ 1,800 a year . This does n't even include copays , deductibles , possibly dental coverage , etc. . Some people still use their parents ' insurance until their 26 , but this does n't work for everyone . Transportation expenses . These may be around $ 100/month , or $ 1,200 a year , if you take public transportation , or considerably more if you have car payments , auto insurance , etc. . I do n't have a car , so I do n't know rough estimates of these numbers off the top of my head . Other recurring expenses , like a cell phone , web hosting , etc. . Some cell phone plans can be $ 100 a month , or $ 1,200 a year . Others can be much cheaper , but this depends on what type of phone and plan you need/want . Even if you ignore the last two items , this leaves you with a grand total of 70 - 24.5 - 5.5 - 12 - 4.2 - 1.8 = $ 22,000 a year , or approximately $ 1,833.33 a month . Whether or not this is enough for you depends on a ) how the expenses above vary based on where you live , b ) how much you spend on food , clothing , entertainment , travel , etc. c ) how much you choose to save/invest in addition to the savings mentioned above . Some employers have better benefits than others , though , so some of the expenses mentioned above may be partially or completely subsidized . Also , as I said before , some or all of these expenses may vary considerably based on your lifestyle and location , but they 're rough estimates . And of course , it 's wise to keep an emergency fund of at least six months of living expenses , in case you lose your job , have an unexpected medical situation , etc. . Keep in mind that I 'm really answering the question " Where does a salary go for a recent college graduate ? " I do n't speak from experience , but once you start a family , you 'll probably have higher medical insurance premiums , possibly a mortgage payment and the associated costs ( maybe mortgage insurance , appliance repairs , etc. ) , savings for your childrens ' education , and higher expenses in every other category ( food , clothing , etc. ) too .
There 's a report similar to credit report that banks use when they evaluate potential customers . This record holds prior bank accounts and the problems arisen from them . You can order your copy ( your wife - hers ) <URL> . I believe the rule of a free annual report extends to this as well . What you describe usually happens if that reports contains some ( very ) negative information , similarly to negative info on credit record . Usually it means that an account was closed by the bank after overdraft was not repaid or some checks bounced .
This is n't so much a legal issue , the prohibition on giving discounts was written into the merchant agreements that most of the major credit card companies enforced on businesses that accepted their credit cards . That is , until the recent Financial Reform Bill ( 2010 ) passed Congress . It changes everything . ( The logic on this is a little convoluted , so read carefully ) Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from requiring a minimum purchase amount to use a credit card . Meaning : That if merchants want to , they can now stop taking credit cards for a $ 4 latte . Credit card companies can no longer prohibit merchants from giving discounts for cash . Here is an article with a lot more detail : <URL> Here is a link to the actual bill details and content : <URL> Here is the relevant part : This subsection is supposed to take affect " at the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 . " In other words , July 21st , 2011 .
The more you put down now , the less money you are borrowing . 30yrs of interest adds up . Even paying a small amount at the beginning of the mortgage can turn into a huge savings over the life of the loan . That 's why you 'll find advice to make extra mortgage payments in the beginning . The question is : Do you have a better use for that money ? In particular , do you have any higher-interest debt ( higher APR than your mortgage ) that needs to be paid off ? You generally want to take care of those first . Beyond that can you invest the extra down payment money elsewhere ( eg stock market ) and get a better return than your mortgage rate ? ( do n't forget about taxes on investment profits ) . If so , that money will do more good there .
It appears that FDENX charges 0.05 % for its own expenses , but has additional 0.61 % expenses from the underlying funds . This is because , as most target date funds , it does n't invest directly in stocks but rather invests in other Fidelity funds - that also charge expenses . The Pyramis fund may be avoiding these charges by managing it 's assets directly and not through other funds , or by investing in other Pyramis index funds without additional overhead . 0.66 % for a target date fund is quite a lot , I must say .
end question
start question
How much CGT due after moving and renting out primary residence in Australia ?
You are correct in your initial assessment of this 6 year rule . If you keep it as your primary residence after moving out you can rent it out for up to 6 years and then sell it within that 6 year period and not pay any Capital Gains Tax ( CGT ) . If you rent it out for more than 6 years and it still remains as your primary residence you will only pay CGT on the period over the initial 6 years . For example if you lived in the house for 10 years then rented it out for 10 years and the property remained your primary residence throughout , you would use the initial purchase price + purchase cost + selling cost as your cost base , deduct this from your selling price and work out the proportion of days rented out ( after the first 6 years ) over all the days you owned the property . In this case the proportion would be approximately ( 4 years / 20 years = 20 % ) . So if your sell price is $ 400,000 and your cost base is $ 100,000 , thus your total capital gain is $ 300,000 you would pay CGT on 20 % of this $ 300,000 - being $ 60,000 . Regarding the second part of your question , as both you and your wife are separate entities for tax purposes , and the primary residence you are renting out is solely in your name , then yes you can live in another house which is solely in your wife 's name and still qualify for the 6 year rule above .
So apparently there is no form , you just have to call them .
A lot ( sometimes called a round lot ) always refers to the quantity of physical good that you 're getting , like a carton of eggs or a barrel of oil . The tricky thing in the case of forex is that the physical good also happens to be a currency . A spot currency product trades in the denomination on the right-hand side ( RHS ) of the product name . So if you 're buying EUR/USD you are paying USD currency to get EUR " units " , and if you 're selling EUR/USD you are receiving USD by giving away EUR " units " . The EUR is the " physical good " in this case . The way I remember it is to think of all products ( not just currencies ) as trading pairs . So AAPL in my mind is AAPL/USD . When I buy AAPL/USD I am paying USD to get AAPL units . When I sell AAPL/USD I am receiving USD by giving away AAPL units . The thing on the left is the physical good ( even if it happens to be money ) that you are exchanging , and the thing on the right is the money that you are exchanging . So , when I buy a lot of AAPL , I am buying 100 shares at their current price in dollars . Similarly , when I buy a lot of EUR/USD , I am buying 100K Euros at their current price in dollars .
There 's no tax difference between using AirBnB or Craigslist or any other method to find tenants . The rules relating to occupancy and frequency may be different for some purposes if you go from yearly or monthly tenants to daily-rate tenants . Your state and local authorities may in the future try to consider you a motel or Bed n Breakfast equivalent , and subject you to various regulations and business taxes . But the method of finding customers itself is probably not meaningful for tax purposes .
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
Yes , there has been speculation in the Australian media for a while regarding Negative Gearing and whether it should be abolished or not . It is being pursued by various interest groups including Welfare Australia and <URL> . In fact it was actually abolished ( temporarily ) by treasurer Paul Keating in 1986 . After house prices started falling and rents increasing it was reinstated again by Paul Keating in 1988 . Most politicians are too worried about the voter backlash they will face if they do abolish NG . However , I agree with <URL> that it will eventually have to be abolished , and I think this time for good or else future governments will struggle to pay for the needs of an aging population ( including pensions and health needs ) . What you have to understand however , if NG was abolished it does not mean that you can not claim costs on your property against the rent you receive on it . For example , at the moment with NG , if your annual gross rent is $ 10,000 and your total costs including depreciation is say $ 15,000 , then you can use the additional $ 5,000 in expenses against your other income and thus reduce the amount of tax you pay for that year ( if your marginal tax rate was say 30 % then you would pay $ 5,000 x 0.30 = $ 1,500 less in tax for that year ) . If instead NG was abolished , your income from the rental would be zero ( as you would deduct $ 10,000 of your expenses from the $ 10,000 gross rent ) , and the remaining $ 5,000 in expenses you would carry over to when you start actually making a positive income from your rent . If you sell the property before you start making positive income , then your carryover expenses would be added to your cost base and reduce the capital gains tax you have to pay . This could make shorter term speculation in property less favourable and many novice investors who do n't really understand the concept of NG ( and are only allured into property investing with NG due to advice from their accountant , their friends and property spruikers ) may be deterred from investing in properties in the future . Also some might see that their benefits of owning an investment property may diminish , and will ask : why should I keep this property if I have to put money in it every month but do n't get any tax benefits anymore ? These people may end up selling their investment properties . Thus you will have less demand on investment properties and a greater supply of properties on the market . This will definitely lead to a drop in property prices , for the short to medium term anyway . I think once people start to learn about other strategies regarding investment properties ( that do n't rely on NG ) , then demand and prices will pick up again . Rents may go up initially ( especially in low vacancy areas ) , as less properties will be available for rent , thus higher demand with low supply . But once again I think this will be for the short to medium term , as the higher yields ( lower prices and higher rents ) will be attractive to investors preferring positive geared properties . And once the spruikers come up with new strategies and marketing material to attract the novice investor , you will get demand and prices for properties increasing again and rents stabilising over time .
As you point out , the moving average is just and is applied in technical analysis ( TA ) to smooth out volatile ( noise ) price action . If it has any logic to it , you might want to think in terms of return series and you could hypothesize that prices are in fact predictable and will oscillate below and above a running moving average . Below is a link to a study on MA trading rules , published in the Journal of Finance , with the conclusion of predictive power and abnormal returns from such strategies . As with any decision made upon historical arguments , one should be aware of structural changes and or data mining . <URL> Brock , W. , J. Lakonishok and B. Le Baron , 1992 , Simple technical trading rules and the stochastic properties of stock returns , Journal of Finance , 47 , 1731-64 . MA rules betterthan chance in US stock market , 1897-1986 I do n't know whether you are new to TA or not , but a great commercial site , with plenty of computer-generated signals is <URL> .
A good general rule is to save 15 % of your income for retirement . As for where you put it : Put as much as it takes to maximize your employer match into your 401 ( k ) , but no more . The employer match is free money , and you ca n't beat free money If you still have n't put in 15 % , put the rest into a Roth IRA . By historical standards , taxes are pretty low today . They are almost certainly going to be higher in retirement , especially since you likely wo n't have the deductions in retirement that you may have now ( kids , mortgage , etc ) . If you 've maxed our the allowed contribution for your Roth and still have n't saved 15 % , put the rest in a traditional IRA .
The simplest , most convenient way I know of to " move your savings to Canada " is to purchase an exchange-traded fund like , the , or a similar instrument . ( I identify this fund because I know it exists , not because I particularly recommend it . ) Your money will be in Canadian currency earning Canadian interest rates . You will pay a small portion of that interest in fees . Since US banks are already guaranteed by the FDIC up to $ 250,000 per account , I do n't really think you avoid any risks associated with the failure of an individual bank , but you might fare better if the US currency is subject to inflation or unfavorable foreign-exchange movements - not that such a thing would be a direct risk of a bank failure , but it could happen as a result of actions taken by the Federal Reserve under the auspices of aiding the economy if the economy worsens in the wake of a financial crisis - or , for that matter , if it worsens as a result of something else , including legislative , regulatory , or executive policies . Read the prospectus to understand additional risks with this investment . One of them is foreign-exchange risk . If the US economy and currency strengthen relative to the Canadian economy and its currency , you may lose substantial amounts of purchasing power . Additionally , one of the possible results of a financial crisis is a " flight to safety " ; the global financial markets still seem to think the US dollar is pretty safe , and they may bid it up as they have done in the past , resulting in losses to your position ( at least in the short term ) . I do not personally recommend moving all your savings to Canada , especially if it deprives you of income from more profitable investments over the long term , but moving some of your savings to Canada at least is n't a stupid idea , and it may turn out to be somewhat profitable . Having some Canadian currency is also a good idea if you plan to spend the money that you are saving on Canadian goods in the intermediate future .
There is no one answer to this question , but there are some generalities . Most exchanges make a distinction between the passive and the aggressive sides of a trade . The passive participant is the order that was resting on the market at the time of the trade . It is an order that based on its price was not executable at the time , and therefore goes into the order book . For example , I 'm willing to sell 100 shares of a stock at $ 9.98 but nobody wants to buy that right now , so it remains as an open order on the exchange . Then somebody comes along and is willing to meet my price ( I am glossing over lots of details here ) . So they aggressively take out my order by either posting a market-buy , or specifically that they want to buy 100 shares at either $ 9.98 , or at some higher price . Most exchanges will actually give me , as the passive ( i.e. liquidity making ) investor a small rebate , while the other person is charged a few fractions of a cent . Google found <URL> details , and most other exchanges make their fees public as well . As of this writing the generic price charged/credited : $ 0.0023 per share ( credit ) for orders that provide liquidity to the Book $ 0.003 per share ( fee ) for orders that take liquidity from the Book But they provide volume discounts , and many of the larger deals do fall into another tier of volume , which provides a different price structure .
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
A car is a big purchase . I recommend spending only as much as you need to fulfill your transportation needs . For you , it sounds like you need basic transportation and reliability , and want to spend as close to $ 10k AUD as possible . You 're on the right track . New cars drop in value rapidly , so while a new car is probably out of the question with that budget , you can do quite well in a used car , and you wo n't need a loan . <URL> has good suggestions based on budget and reliability of used cars . ( It 's a U.S. site , so just adjust for kilometers and AUD ) . Just make sure the car is either checked by a mechanic ( if you buy private-party ) or certified/warranted by a dealer . With ~ $ 10-12k AUD , you 're looking at something like a ~ 2007 model year Civic , Fit , or Focus , or an older Prius , all which have good used cars scores . Maybe set $ 15k as your max budget if you are comfortable with that amount ? Oh , and nice job saving $ 500-700 each week . With that mindset , I do n't think you need to worry about maintenance , insurance , etc. . You 'll be able to afford it .
I 'd answer it this way : What do you want to do ? I 'd say any amount is acceptable from as low as $ 100 . When you look at the specific " tree " of investing paying $ 5 for a $ 100 seems unacceptable . However when observing the " forest " what does it matter if you " waste " $ 5 on a commission ? Your friends ( and maybe you ) probably waste more than $ 5 multiple times per day . For them buying a latte might empower them , if buying another share of HD , for a similar cost , empowers you than do it . In the end who will be better off ? Studies show that the more important part of building a significant investment portfolio is actually doing it . Rate of return and the cost of investing pales in comparison to actually doing it . How many of your peers are doing similar things ? You are probably in very rare company . If it makes you happy , it is a wonderful way to spend your money .
To be able to claim moving expenses in Canada , your new home must be at least 40 km closer to the new place of work than your old home . CRA spells out the criteria and includes a nice quiz here : <URL> They do n't specifically state that the order matters , so I take it to mean that the CRA just needs to consider that the move was reasonable . That is , if you are moving for a specific job , the order does not matter . But you could , for example , not move from Alberta to New Brunswick , then start your job search , and then take a job three months later . In other words , you must move for a specific job ; otherwise , you are n't moving to be closer to your place of employment . You do n't necessarily need to have a signed job offer in hand , but you must have been verbally offered the job . Remember to keep your receipts , invoices , and supporting documentation .
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
The day you placed the ad putting up for rent , or if you used a broker , the day you signed that contract . Of course , if for whatever reason , you listed/advertised it before vacating , the day it was available to a willing tenant is the day . Good luck - Read that to mean " I wish you the best of tenants "
Common wisdom suggests a starting point of an 80 % replacement rate to final income . It also suggests a 4 % initial withdrawal rate from retirement assets leading to a goal of 20 times final income as the target nest egg . Think of these numbers as a mid point of a bell curve . The retirement budget is personal . During your life were you saving for the kids ' education ? You wo n't have this expense in retirement . Same with the mortgage , if you pay it off before retiring . I 've seen $ 100k budgets showing the couple was living on less than $ 40k , due to the combined mortgage , college saving , and retirement saving . Social security alone would cover their spending in retirement , my advice was n't to save less/spend more , but to be aware and understand their retirement was actually funded to spend nearly twice their pre retirement spending . I 've also seen the same $ 100k spent in full , a couple in their 50s with virtually no savings , and living on their entire income and then some . The dilemma is this - first understanding your own current budget , then forecasting how it might change in its composition if not actual dollars . I have to say , Mhoran is right on , the goal is n't fixed , it 's a moving target , and needs frequent revisiting . Note - I wrote about <URL> last year , the 20x or any other target goal should take SS into account unless you believe it wo n't be there at all . Update - Retirement needs are best understood by looking at spending , not earnings . Financial writers typically focus on the replacement ratio , which of course is a comparison to earnings , not spending . In the end , one can either get wrapped up in the discussion of where to start , or simply start saving , aggressively , with an eye on the 80 % rule of thumb , and as age 40 rolls around , start to migrate to a spending model . Much of the process of doing the math along the way was discussed in <URL> and my answer take a different spin there .
end question
start question
What happens to options if a company is acquired / bought out ?
A lot may depend on the nature of a buyout , sometimes it 's is for stock and cash , sometimes just stock , or in the case of this google deal , all cash . Since that deal was used , we 'll discuss what happens in a cash buyout . If the stock price goes high enough before the buyout date to put you in the money , pull the trigger before the settlement date ( in some cases , it might be pulled for you , see below ) . Otherwise , once the buyout occurs you will either be done or may receive adjusted options in the stock of the company that did the buyout ( not applicable in a cash buyout ) . Typically the price will approach but not exceed the buyout price as the time gets close to the buyout date . If the buyout price is above your option strike price , then you have some hope of being in the money at some point before the buyout ; just be sure to exercise in time . You need to check the fine print on the option contract itself to see if it had some provision that determines what happens in the event of a buyout . That will tell you what happens with your particular options . For example Joe Taxpayer just amended his answer to include the standard language from CBOE on it 's options , which if I read it right means if you have options via them you need to check with your broker to see what if any special exercise settlement procedures are being imposed by CBOE in this case .
It depends on the timing of the events . Sometimes the buying company announces their intention but the other company does n't like the deal . It can go back and forth several times , before the deal is finalized . The specifics of the deal determine what happens to the stock : They can buy all the outstanding shares and the stock holder of those shares get the money . They can trade X shares for the old company for Y shares of the new company . They can do a hybrid where X shares are traded for Z shares and some cash for the fractional shares . The deal will specify when the cutoff is . Some people want the cash , others want the shares . Some will speculate once the initial offer is announced where the final offer ( if there is one ) will end up . This can cause a spike in volume , and the price could go up or down . Regarding this particular deal I did find the following : <URL> Additional Information and Where to Find It Orbitz intends to file with the SEC a proxy statement as well as other relevant documents in connection with the proposed transaction with Expedia . The definitive proxy statement will be sent or given to the stockholders of Orbitz and will contain important information about the proposed transaction and related matters . SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT CAREFULLY WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC , AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS , BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION . The proxy statement and other relevant materials ( when they become available ) , and any other documents filed by Expedia or Orbitz with the SEC , may be obtained free of charge at the SEC 's website , at www.sec.gov . In addition , security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Orbitz by contacting Investor Relations by mail at ATTN : Corporate Secretary , Orbitz Worldwide , Inc. , 500 W. Madison Street , Suite 1000 , Chicago , Illinois 60661 .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
When you start preparing your 2016 tax return in early 2017 and realize that you are ineligible to contribute to a Roth IRA , you have the options of withdrawing your contribution as well as any earnings from that contribution from the Roth IRA . The earnings will count as income for 2017 since you will be making the withdrawal in 2017 . The original contribution , of course , continues to count as income for 2016 . recharacterizing your contribution as a contribution to your Traditional IRA . You need to contact your IRA custodian and tell them about it so that they can change the status of your account from Roth to Traditional IRA . Use the word recharacterization so that they will know exactly what you are talking about . If your income is very high , you might not be able to deduct the Traditional IRA contribution ( wholly , or in part ) on your 2016 tax return either , and if you are in that high-earner category , you should file Form 8606 with your tax return to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution to your Traditional IRA . In later years , when you start taking distributions from your Traditional IRA , that nondeductible contribution will not be taxed upon withdrawal . If you do not file Form 8606 , you will owe taxes on that amount when it is withdrawn . doing nothing in which case you will get whacked with all kinds of penalties Note : if you recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then , depending on your Traditional IRA accounts , it might be advantageous to do a " back-door Roth IRA conversion " . There are multiple answers on this site that will tell you all about back-door Roth IRA conversion .
Options trading at $ .01 have the same position limits as other options . Self regulatory organizations set the position limits for options which can be 250,000 contracts on one side of the book , as an example . Weeklies that are expiring soon have lots of liquidity while trading at $ 0.01 , you can see this in Bank of America stock if interested
As someone who works for a company that deploys POS systems in Canada , I can tell you that your best bet would be to have a configuration option that lets the client decide what to do . If they have a business practice that would allow for a sale total to be $ 0.01 or $ 0.02 , they should first evaluate their business practice . If you 're building a POS system to deploy in Canada , I 'm sure you have access to resources ( potential clients ) who would already know how they would want to handle this . Ask them .
I 'm assuming this was a cashless exercise because you had income show up on your w-2 . When I had a similar situation , I did the following : If you made $ 50,000 in salary and $ 10,000 in stock options then your W-2 now says $ 60,000 . You 'll record that on your taxes just like it was regular income . You 'll also get a form that talks about your stock sale . But remember , you bought and sold the stock within seconds . Your forms will probably look like this : Bought stock : $ 10,000 Sold stock : $ 10,000 + $ 50 commission Total profit ( loss ) : ( $ 50 ) From the Turbotax/IRS view point , you lost $ 50 on the sale of the stock because you paid the commission , but the buy and sell prices were identical or nearly identical .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
There are cases in which some Lease agreements will allow you to exit them without charge , but you can not simply vacate a location without paying . Cases that would allow you to leave the lease , if they are stated within the lease , are usually for reasons like : You or an immediate family member must move for a job . If you can prove that you have a job that is over a certain distance from the place you are currently residing in , there may be a clause that would allow you to break you lease , or simply the landlord may be more willing to allow you to go . You find the apartment or house to be unlivable If situations have changed , and conditions are now such that you can not safely live in the place , you may be able to break the lease . If you have a copy of your lease , look for these clauses or others near the end , that 's where they appear in mine . There are also other situations where if you give sufficient notice , and have been a long time tenant , breaking a lease may be only a small fee , certainly worth looking into rather than facing any legal recourse .
The ratings that you see are usually <URL> . The <URL> publishes several different kinds of ratings that are designed to measure " the creditworthiness of an issuer or debt obligation " , i.e. how close the company is to insolvency , how financially stable it is , etc. . In short , it 's a rating of the financial strength of the company . For most consumers , these ratings probably are n't anything more than a formality , since most major insurers are solid companies . Of course , these ratings break down when companies are n't estimating their potential for losses correctly , hence the bailout of AIG after its fiasco with credit default swaps . The <URL> AM Best uses is somewhat complex . They state that : Our rating process involves a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company 's balance sheet strength , operating performance and business profile . This includes comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans , philosophy and management . I 'm fairly certain that these ratings apply to all types of insurers , including re-insurers , as well as some of the securities they offer . <URL> and <URL> also publish ratings of insurance companies , but AM Best is known for focusing almost exclusively on the insurance industry . All of these ratings are financial strength ratings , however , which is n't necessarily indicative of how appropriate their products will be for you . I 'm sure there are other ratings too , e.g. customer service ratings , that you could find somewhere , but I do n't know of any specific ones off the top of my head . The financial strength of a company is more relevant when you buy a life insurance policy or an annuity , because you want the company to be viable for a long time . In this case , you should consider the financial strength ratings as part of your evaluation before purchasing such a policy .
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
Binary options is a type of option where the payoff is either some fixed amount of some asset or nothing at all . When you trade binary options a trader who thinks that the EUR/USD strike price will close at or below 1.2500 at 3:00 p.m. can buy a put option or sell the contract .
Is there an option to dispute this record online since I have never lived in Ohio state ? Start with getting a US-licensed CPA/EA in India , or a CPA/EA working in Ohio , contacting them on your behalf and getting more details . Why did they put the lien ? They probably think you earned money in the State/while resident of the State , and did n't pay taxes . Why would they think that ? Could there be any chance that this was put by mistake ? I still find it hard to believe that the state authorities took my credit card address as a proof of residence . Obviously , unless you did n't tell us something in your question , this is some kind of mistake . But mistake can be not theirs - someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to steal your identity . Someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to file a fraudulent tax return and got refunds they were not supposed to get If there is no option to dispute , what is the worst that can happen if I do n't pay it and enter the US in 2020 ? If you do n't do anything , someone else 's mistake will become your mistake . Your credit will be ruined , the statute of limitations to dispute the assessment will have passed and the State will attempt to collect on you . The statute of limitations on collections depends on the State laws , but it is much longer than the statute of limitations on assessments , so while you may not be able to argue you do n't owe the dept by 2020 - the State will probably be able to garnish your wages and freeze your bank accounts . Deal with this , ASAP .
If a bank employee catches it then typically they would call you and ask you to come in to sign the check . If they ca n't get a hold of you they would probably mail it back to you . There is a chance that they wo n't catch in which case it would just be deposited into your account like any other check .
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
In the end it is your money . when you leave your job you will be given a few options if you have money in the 401k : 1 ) Leave it in the 401K account with the employer . You wo n't be able to contribute anymore , but you usually CAN keep the money there with no issues . For balances less than $ 5K , the employer can force you to take the money out of their plan ( see options 2-4 ) . I do n't generally suggest doing this . Option 3 gives you a lot more flexibility and usually less fees on the account . 2 ) Roll the balance into a new employers plan . 3 ) Roll the balance into a self-directed IRA or Roth IRA ( Depending on the type of 401K ) 4 ) Cash out the balance - EXTREMELY bad idea . You can lose up to 40 % of your money through penalties and taxes doing this . The employer match is slightly more complicated . You will want to look at the employer 's vesting period . Any employer match that is not vested , they will likely not let you keep . However YOUR contributions belong to you and they ca n't legally take that . Clarification on the vesting period : Companies have the option to specify a vesting period to encourage you to stay with them longer . How this typically works is that whatever you put in the 401K , they will contribute an additional amount ( usually less than 10 % ) of their money to your account with a string attached , that you only get to keep the money they put in the account if you stay with the company at least X years . In many cases they have a vesting schedule something like this : The vesting period never applies to money YOU put in the account , only what the employer contributes .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
Yes you will get back the extra money at tax time . You are not able to adjust the withholding . Each employer will pay their share , and not get a refund , but at tax time , you 'll get back any excess as if you worked one job . On the tax forms the data from each W2 is loaded , including the Social Security ( FICA ) withheld . There are a number of circumstances that can result in the worker portion being too much , say 6 months at one job , 6 months at another , but the total for the year is well above the max withhholding level . Or the OPs situation with multiple concurrent jobs . If you fill the forms manually , I ca n't tell you the form the triggers the refund ( yet ) but the reporting of the excess payments will result in a refund via the same Federal tax payment / refund method . To be clear , your federal refund will be higher , or required payment lower due the the Social Security issue .
end question
start question
Should I get a bank account since I recently got my first job ?
This may be a bit advanced now , but once you start really working and get a place , I think this will apply more ... Do I set up a bank account now ? Yes . There is no reason not to . As an adult you will be using this much more than you think . Assuming you have a little money , you can walk in to any bank almost any day of the week and set up an account with them in very little time . Note that they may require you to be 18 if your parents wo n't be with you on the account . Otherwise , just ask any bank representative to help you do this . Just to be clear , if you can get a credit union account over a typical bank account , this is a great idea . Credit unions provide exactly the same financial services as a normal bank , but typically have variety of advantages over banks . Bank Account Parts Bank accounts typically have two parts , a checking account and a savings account . Your checking account typically is what you use for most day-to-day transactions and your savings account is generally used for , well , saving money . Having a bank account often gives you the following advantages : They give you an ability to store money without having large amounts of cash on hand . Once you start working regularly , you 'll find you wo n't want to keep ~ $ 600 + cash every two weeks in your wallet or apartment . They help you pay bills . When you set up your bank account , you will likely be able to get a Visa debit card which will process like a regular credit card but simply deduct funds from your checking account . You can use this card online to pay utilities ( i.e. electricity and water ) , general bills ( e.g. your cell phone and cable ) , purchase items ( ex . at Amazon ) or use it in stores to pay in lieu of cash . Be aware -- some banks will give you an ATM-only card before they send you the Visa debit card in the mail . This ATM-only card can only be used at ATMs as it 's name implies . Similarly , if you can invest about ~ $ 200 to build your credit , you can often get a deposit secured credit card attached to your account ( basically a credit card where the bank keeps your money in case you ca n't pay your bill ) . If you treat this card with responsibility , you can eventually transition to an unsecured credit card . They save you hassles when cashing your check . If you do n't have a bank where you can cash your check ( e.g. you do n't have an account ) , you will likely be charged check cashing fees ( usually by places such as grocery stores or payday loan chains , or even other banks ) . Furthermore , if your check is over a certain amount , some places may refuse to cash your check period and a bank may be your only option . They give you a way to receive money electronically . The most common example of this is direct deposit . Many employers will send your money directly to your bank account instead of requiring you to cash a check . If they are prompt , this money gets to you faster and saves you trouble ( on payday , you 'll just receive a pay stub detailing your wages and the amount deposited rather than a check ) . Also , since you asked about taxes , you should know that when you do eventually file with the IRS , they have an option to receive your tax refund electronically as well ( e.g. direct deposit into your bank account ) and that can literally save you months in some cases depending on when you file your return and how many paper checks they have to process . Does it cost money to setup ? It depends . Some banks have special offers , some do n't . Most places will set up an account for free , but may require a minimum deposit to open the account ( typically $ 50 - $ 100 ) . The Visa debit card mentioned above generally comes free . If you want a secured credit card as above , you will want about an additional $ 200 ( so $ 250 - $ 300 total ) . Note that this is absolutely NOT required . You can exclusively use the Visa debit card above if you wish . Bank Account Fees Any fees charged when you have a bank account are usually minor anymore . Regardless , the bank will hand you a whole bunch of paperwork ( mostly in legalese ) detailing exactly how your account works . That said , the bank person helping set things up will cover what you need to know about keeping the account in plain English . The most common types of fee associated with a bank account are monthly maintenance fees and overdraft fees , but these are n't always necessarily charged . Likewise , there may be some other fees associated with the account but these vary from bank to bank . Monthly Maintenance Fees To give some examples ... Some banks may only charge a monthly maintenance fee if your balance goes below a minimum threshold ( usually $ 25 - $ 100 ) . Some banks may not care about a minimum balance but charge you a flat rate ( e.g. $ 8.95 a month to keep the account open , regardless of balance ) . Some banks may put additional conditions in place regarding monthly fees ( e.g. no maintenance fee as long as you go online and do your banking via ATM and direct deposit -- but if you visit a teller one or more times
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
In any . There 's no SSN requirement to open a bank account in the US . It comes into play when banks use SSN as a means of identification , or when they 're required to collect tax ids ( for interest bearing accounts ) .
If your house is repossessed because you 've defaulted on the mortgage then the bank sells the house ( probably cheap , because it 's a quick sale of a repossessed property ) , takes the money you owe them ( the mortgage balance plus the outstanding interest payments and any costs to sell the house like estate agent 's or auctioneer 's fees ) out of the proceeds , and then pays you the rest . If on the other hand the sale price does n't cover the mortgage and outstanding interest , then they can pursue you for the balance ( in many states of the US mortgages are " non-recourse " and they ca n't do this , but in the UK they can ) .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
You need to look at the numbers when you 're ready to transact . What your crossover is worth now , what the truck will lease for then , what financing deals may or may not be available will all change . I 'm not sure why you 've already decided you will lease the truck , perhaps you 're planning to take advantage of some kind of business write off . I would personally never put anything down on a lease , though I have argued with people on here about that particular decision . The reality is you need to look at the numbers . Some banks will adjust the interest you pay on your lease to account for your down payment , some do n't . Consider a $ 9,000 lease , $ 250 per month for 36 months . Consider you pay $ 1,000 up front as a down payment . Example 1 : $ 1,000 lowers the amount due on the lease to $ 8,000 lowering your monthly payment to $ 222.22 from $ 250 , the downpayment has accomplished nothing . Over the 36 months you will have still paid the same $ 9,000 . Example 2 : $ 1,000 up front changes the amount owed and other fees generally applicable to a lease ( gap insurance etc ) and your payment drops to $ 215 , your total over the lease is now $ 8,740 ( $ 1,000 down and $ 7,740 in payments ) . You need to look at the numbers . In general if you know you will be purchasing the truck at the end of the lease it 's more financially advantageous to just purchase it from the start .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
My wife and I have done a good job teaching our daughter , now 15 , that one does the right thing , simply because it 's the right thing to do . This may not work for every child , but it did for us . Her motivation was never punishment , we explained that if she did the wrong thing , it 's awful to have to live with that . On one hand , THEAO 's answer is correct , the stick the IRS wields is the audit and fines . I suppose from a legal standpoint , we comply with laws to avoid punishment . I find this to be unfortunate . To get back on topic - The extra regular income counts when applying for a mortgage , I recall you asking mortgage related questions , $ 10,000 in extra reported income will qualify you for over $ 45K in incremental mortgage borrowing . Depending how you file , the SE FICA contribution will add to your Social Security benefit , old Aerovistae will thank you for the extra income . Earned side income will let you open a Solo 401 ( k ) , again , that old Aero will be happier if you do that now . I started with an answer more appropriate to Parenting because I have a very precocious child for whom I addressed this question a decade ago . The latter portion of my response helps to give tangible benefits which have value even if less than the tax you might be paying .
Within the bank or group of banks owned by the same company the account number is unique . What is unique is the bank id number and account number combination . If the bank ID number does n't match a banking institution , the transaction will not be completed . If you are unlucky and your mistake in writing the bank id number does match a bank , you have to hope the account number does n't match . The name 's do not have to match . Checks have been deposited with incorrect spelling , nick names vs formal names . Mr. and Mrs ...
Hi Alex. I 've been alerted you 're seeking a better answer to this question . ;-) Please accept my apologies for not coming back to this question sooner -- it got buried . : - / No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 591/2 are generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plans may allow for a loan , but the availability and conditions vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description -- often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consulting firm that assists others in building such sites , and SPDs are usually something made available for download in a " Retirement " or " Wealth " section of such web sites . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be paid back into the plan over some period of time , e.g. 5 years , though I have come across examples of <URL> <URL> that do permit a longer pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 years if the loan is used for a home purchase . But consider this article : <URL> Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there are rules permitting withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in <URL> . There 's also a good article at <URL> . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remains subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the <URL> . Additional Resources : <URL>
I removed the bank account because I could n't change the default , and now it uses my credit card as the default . I have n't noticed any downsides . I think Paypal is just trying to save paying credit card transaction fees . But I do n't much like their user-hostile method of doing so , personally . Most cards kick back some of those fees to cardholders via rewards . If Paypal wants us to use a bank account maybe they should consider giving out an incentive instead of making us do annoying extra clicks on every purchase !
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
Source : I 'm recently ( 2 years ) out of college ( Info Sciences + Technology degree ) Disclaimer : Speaking from limited personal experience ( see above ) A lot of corporate recruiters like the prospect of hiring recent college grads of because of the location flexibility they have ( typically own no real estate , are not married , and have no children ) . " What should I take into consideration given the possibility of relocation ? " - This is very broad , but if you 're open to moving anywhere , let them know . Large companies that work nationally / globally should offer a cost-of-living adjustment ( either separately , or built-in to your salary ) depending on location . This usually does n't equal the difference in cost of living , but it helps . They may also cover relocation expenses . " What questions should I ask of the recruiters extending employment ? " - That 's kinda out of the scope of this site . If they want your input for finance-related issues ( target salary ) , they 'll ask . " Should I consider an apartment or buying a house ? " - You 'll want to rent to start out . At the moment , you 've got a lot of loan debt , a very short income history , and you 're about to ( potentially ) change jobs . Also , relocation means you may not have a great context for where you want to live for the next few years . If you get a job with Amazon and relocate , take a year to settle your finances , then determine if purchasing a house is something you can manage . If you do n't have a savings set aside for a reasonable down payment on a house , you 'll get hit with a mortgage insurance payment each month =\ , and that 's not fun . Do n't try to do too much at once , and make sure you have a full assessment of your finances before making any major purchases . I follow this general rule : Every few months , I fully re-assess our expenditures , and see what we can cut out or cut back on , put a bit into savings , and put the rest against outstanding student loans .
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
The rebate amount is a non-qualified distribution : <URL> describes how the HSA works : Reporting Distributions on Your Return How you report your distributions depends on whether or not you use the distribution for qualified medical expenses ( defined earlier ) . If you use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you do not pay tax on the distribution but you have to report the distribution on Form 8889 . However , the distribution of an excess contribution taken out after the due date , including extensions , of your return is subject to tax even if used for qualified medical expenses . Follow the instructions for the form and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you do not use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you must pay tax on the distribution . Report the amount on Form 8889 and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you have a taxable HSA distribution , include it in the total on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR , line 21 , and enter " HSA " and the amount on the dotted line next to line 21 . You may have to pay an additional 20 % tax on your taxable distribution . I looked at several plans regarding how to handle mistaken distributions : <URL> What if I accidentally use my HSA Visa debit card for a non-qualified expense ? To fix this problem , just bring that same amount into any local branch and tell us it was a Mistaken Distribution . We can then put the funds back into your HSA and correct the problem . <URL> You 're allowed to correct mistaken HSA withdrawals when there is clear and convincing evidence that amounts were distributed from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause . You can correct the mistake by repaying the withdrawal no later than April 15 following the first year that you knew or should have known that the withdrawal was a mistake . When a correction is made , the mistaken withdrawal does not have to be included in gross income or be subject to the 6 percent additional tax , and the repayment does not count as an excess contribution . If an error is made by SelectAccount in its role as the administrator , SelectAccount will be responsible for taking appropriate corrective action . Check with your plan trustee on their procedure to fix the mistaken withdrawal .
With the information you have given , I would say never . Remember the banker is a salesman , and the line of credit is the product . If you do n't need to borrow the money for something specific , then you do n't need the line of credit in the first place . Even if you did need something I would tell you to save up and pay cash for it . On the tax advantage : There is none , in the US you can deduct your mortgage interest on your taxes but it 's not a tax credit it 's a tax deductions . Let me explain further : You spend $ 10,000 on mortgage interest , and you 're in the 25 % tax bracket . You send the bank $ 10,000 in return you get at tax savings of $ 2500 . You are still in the hole $ 7500 You would have been better off not taking out the loan in the first place . On the Emergency Fund : You should have 3 - 6 months of expenses in cash , like a money market account . This money is n't for investing , it 's like insurance , and you do n't make money on insurance . The last thing you want to do is have to go into debt right in the middle of an emergency . Say you lost your job , the last thing you would want to do is borrow money , right at the time you have no income to pay it back . The bank is under no obligation to maintain you credit limit and can without notice reduce it , they can in most cases call the loan balance due in full with little or no notice as well . Both of those are likely scenarios if the bank were to become aware of the fact that you were unemployed .
Sorry , but whether or not you drive in New York , the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles requires you to get a license in New York and surrender your California license . <URL> : If you become a <URL> of NYS , you must get a NYS driver license within 30 days and surrender your out-of-state driver license . Normally , you can not have a NYS driver license and a driver license from another state , but there are exceptions . It is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license ( CDL ) .
end question
start question
How to base my income tax bracket ?
Neither . A Look at <URL> will show you the math by which taxable income is calculated . 22 lines to get to your total income . 37 to your adjusted gross , 61 to your taxable income . ( Note , there are tax credits that may appear in the remaining lines , which can wipe out any or all of the tax bill of line 61 . You can be in the 10 % bracket , but have Uncle Sam pick up the remaining tab . ) For most people in the US , personal exemptions and the standard deduction are the two largest reductions to one 's income . For the next group , it 's the <URL> that will tally enough deductions to exceed the standard deduction and the taxpayer benefits from " itemizing . " The recent Question <URL> should answer how you know your bracket once you arrive at your taxable income .
This is called " <URL> " . If your company is publicly traded it is definitely doable through your broker . If your company is private , you 'll have to ask them if it is possible , and if it is - how the process works . Re taxes , hard to tell since you did n't mention what country you 're from . But generally , in all the tax jurisdictions I know of ( which is not a lot ) the amount you get above the amount that you paid is considered salary in this scenario and is taxed accordingly .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
No , it is not true . That is one of the many " conspiracy theorists ' " claims to not pay taxes , and is <URL> ( i.e. : punishable by <URL> and criminal prosecution ) . Specifically to your question , the current Federal income tax framework was laid down in 1986 , with the <URL> . It is codified under the <URL> . It is usually referred to as the " Internal Revenue Code " , or IRC .
This depends on how your agreement with the US Company is structured . Consult a professional CA who will guide you . As you have stated , the entire amount of $ 1000 would be treated as income , for certain professions and type of activities , you can claim the tax paid in US and only pay additional in India , ie if you have paid 25 % in US and are liable for 30 % in India you just pay 5 % more .
Yes , this extra income would be taxed at your marginal rate because it is increasing your total income . This does not necessarily apply to all income , however . Capital gains are taxed at a different rate . Depending on the amount of extra work , you may wish to consider setting up a corporation . Corporations are taxed entirely differently . This would also give you the opportunity to write off far more of your expenses , but be aware of <URL> . Investopedia has a good article on <URL> . The issue is that the corporation must pay taxes on the revenue and then , when you take out the money either as salary or dividends , you personally will pay tax . It may leave you better off , even with the double taxation . Dividends are taxed at a lower rate than your marginal tax rate , generally . And you can write off much more inside a corporation . If considering this , talk to an accountant and discuss your expected revenue from consulting . The accountant should be able to quantify the costs and benefits .
Yes pension income is taxed at your marginal rate , and you may be able to claim a $ 2,000 pension deduction . In addition pension income can be split with a spouse or common law partner by electing so on your tax return . When you begin to receive pension income from work the employers pension administrator will have you fill out a TD1 Form Federal and Provincial Form which will tell them how much tax to deduct at source . You can also elect to increase the amount of taxes deducted at source . If the taxes deducted at source are insufficient or if you have other income where source deductions have not been withheld then you may owe taxes on your tax return . If you owe over $ 3,000 in taxes when you file your return you will be requested to pay next years taxes owing in instalments . You can request the government to withhold Taxes on your Canada CPP benefits too .
The IRS defines income quite specifically . On the topic <URL> , they note : You can receive income in the form of money , property , or services . This section discusses many kinds of income that are taxable or nontaxable . It includes discussions on employee wages and fringe benefits , and income from bartering , partnerships , S corporations , and royalties . Bartering , or giving someone wages ( or similar ) in something other than currency ( or some other specifically defined things , like fringe benefits ) , is taxed at fair market value : Bartering Bartering is an exchange of property or services . You must include in your income , at the time received , the fair market value of property or services you receive in bartering . For additional information , Refer to Tax Topic 420 - Bartering Income and Barter Exchanges . Bartering is more specifically covered in <URL> : You must include in gross income in the year of receipt the fair market value of goods or services received from bartering . Generally , you report this income on Form 1040 , Schedule C ( PDF ) , Profit or Loss from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ ( PDF ) , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) . If you failed to report this income , correct your return by filing a Form 1040X ( PDF ) , Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return . Refer to Topic 308 for information on filing an amended return . More details about income in general beyond the above articles is available in <URL> . It goes into great detail about different kinds of income . In your example , you 'd have to calculate the fair market value of an avocado , and then determine how much cash-equivalent you were paid in . The IRS would n't necessarily tell you what that value was ; you 'd calculate it based on something you feel you could justify to them afterwards . The way I 'd do it would be to write down the price of avocados at each pay period , and apply a dollar-cost-averaging type method to determine the total pay 's fair value . While the avocado example is of course largely absurd , the advent of bitcoins has made this much more relevant . Publication 525 has this to say about virtual currency : Virtual Currency . If your employer gives you virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) as payment for your services , you must include the fair market value of the currency in your income . The fair market value of virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) paid as wages is subject to federal income tax withholding , Federal Insurance Contribution Act ( FICA ) tax , and Federal Unemployment Tax Act ( FUTA ) tax and must be reported on Form W-2 , Wage and Tax Statement . Gold would be fundamentally similar - although I am not sure it 's legal to pay someone in gold ; assuming it were , though , its fair market value would be again the definition of income . Similarly , if you 're paid in another country 's currency , the US dollar equivalent of that is what you 'll pay taxes on , at the fair market value of that currency in US dollars .
You 've correctly understood the way charitable donations work . They are non-refundable tax credits , which means they reduce your income tax bill if you pay any , but ca n't reduce it below zero . <URL> . However the good news is that <URL> . This means that your best strategy is to hang on to those tax receipts , and assuming you start earning taxable income in the next five years , claim them then . EDIT : I would expect that making the donation through one of your parents would work . Essentially you would be giving the computers to your parents , and they would give them to the charity . You would have to make sure the receipts were issued in your parents name . You would also have to make sure that the amounts involved were small enough that your parents did n't pay tax on the gift to them , but in the amounts you seem to be talking about that should n't be a problem .
The product you seek is called a fixed immediate annuity . You also want to be clear it 's inflation adjusted . In the US , the standard fixed annuity for a 40year old male ( this is the lowest age I find on the site I use ) has a 4.6 % return . $ 6000 / yr means one would pay about $ 130,000 for this . The cost to include the inflation adder is about 50 % , from what I recall . So close to $ 200,000 . This is an insurance product , by the way , and you need to contact a local provider to get a better quote .
The FICA creates two different taxes : taxes on the employees and taxes on the employers . Taxes on the employees are codified under <URL> . For the employers - <URL> . Accidentally ( or not ) the tax rate is the same : 6.2 % of the wages paid ( up to the <URL> ) . The limits are the same , however there 's a subtle difference : Subchapter A ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages received by the employee , whereas Subchapter B ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages paid by the employer . Excerpt from Sec . 3101 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on the income of every individual a tax equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) received by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- Excerpt from Sec . 3111 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on every employer an excise tax , with respect to having individuals in his employ , equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) paid by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- So the bottom line is that when an individual exceeds the FICA limits on his wages because of multiple employers , each of the employers separately - does n't . Because these are different taxes and different limits , even if they look very similar .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
An unmarried person with a total U.S.-sourced earned income under $ 37,000 during the year 2016 is likely to owe : Somewhat less than 15 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " federal income taxes " , plus : 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : If they are an independent contractor another 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as the " employer share " of their " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : Any state and local income taxes ( which do not exist in Washington State ) , plus : If they are working as a licensed business any " unemployment insurance premiums " and " workers compensation premiums ** . Each of these can be 0.5 % - 4 % of pay ( below certain caps ) , depending on the state , business , and industry . Plus If they are working as a licensed business any state and local " business and occupation taxes " ( a.k.a. " B&amp;O taxes " ) . Washington State has a B&amp;O tax rate slightly below 4 % of gross revenue , for many kinds of businesses . If the original poster is not an " independent contractor " , and is not " billing corp-to-corp " then : Their employer will pay the B&amp;O taxes , unemployment insurance premiums , workers compensation premiums , and the " employer share " of the " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " . The original poster can fill out their " W-4 form " in such a way that their employer will withhold 15 % of their pay for federal income taxes . ( One way to do this is to claim 99 dependents , and ask to have " additional withholding " that happens to be 15 % of the amount of each pay period 's pay . ) Sometime between January 1 , 2017 and April 15 , 2017 , the original poster can download U.S. federal income tax forms , fill them out , and submit them to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to claim a refund . In summary : The original poster 's net pay is likely to be 22.65 % less than their stated pay ( if they are working for business that takes care of tax withholding , and are not an " independent contractor " ) An " independent contractor " or someone billing " corp-to-corp " ( as a business of their own ) with a similarly modest income is likely to have a net pay 33 % to 40 % less than their stated pay . These calculations do not consider the effects of other deductions , such as for medical insurance , health savings accounts , dependent care , and retirement savings accounts . These calculations do not consider the effects of taxes by the original poster 's home country . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Generally incorrect . Some of your mortgage payment is interest , and some is repayment of principal . When it comes to deducting your rental property 's expenses against its income , you generally are n't permitted to deduct the repayment of loan principal . So , no , $ 1600 rent and $ 1600 mortgage payment ( ignoring all else ) is not break-even -- rather , you are profiting to the extent that your rental property 's mortgage principal is being reduced . That profit is taxable income , even if your cash flow has n't benefited . Otherwise , you could " break even " this way in perpetuity and at the end of the mortgage have a property paid for fully in tax-free dollars ! Nope . ( I said " generally " at top because the possibility of an interest-only loan does make the entire payment interest , but I mention this merely for completeness and not because it is likely to apply . )
No -- the U.S. is the only country that imposes such a requirement on its citizens . Eritrea is another country ( the only other ... ) in the world which taxes non-resident citizens , but it is not a regular income tax . Every other country in the world taxes by residency and not by citizenship . Canadian citizens who no longer reside in Canada ( i.e. : have permanently emigrated , can prove that they did , and are officially residents elsewhere ) are only taxed on income from Canadian sources . For more information see <URL> .
I filed all my tax returns when I was abroad so they know how much I made ( just not how much I saved ) . I smell problems here . If you were compliant wrt to your filings , you must have filed <URL> and <URL> . Even if you were below the threshold for form 8938 , you will probably be above it when you move back to the US - the threshold for people living in the US is much lower . Do I still need to declare it , even though I might not intend to use this money to help my kids through college ? I believe so . <URL> : Nothing there suggests that it is only limited to the accounts in the US or to the money you intend to use to help your kids through college .
I 'm unsure of the details , but this is the principle : You would need to setup as a reseller , buy said item ( s ) without paying tax ( on account that you are going to resell them ) , then sell to your customer ( s ) with an appropriate sales tax tacked on to the price you charge . As mbhunter states , the sales tax should only be paid once by the consumer . I believe that you can not avoid setting-up as a reseller , as you would be expected to collect sales tax on the items you sell . In the case that you do pay sales tax on an item and simply pass it on to the final consumer you would at least have to keep a record of the fact that the sales tax was already paid . In the case of a markup , I believe that you have to charge a sales tax on the mark-up . This gets you back to setting up as a reseller , as you generally do not want to expose the markup to your customers . Rather , you would want to buy it tax-exempt , add in the markup and charge sales tax on the entire sale . You may be able to charge them for the service , instead of a markup , though I am very much unsure of this .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
Federal income taxes are indeed expenses , they 're just not DEDUCTIBLE expenses on your 1120 . Federal Income Tax Expense is usually a subcategory under Taxes . This is one of the items that will be a book-to-tax difference on Schedule M-1 . I am presuming you are talking about a C corporation , as an S corporation is not likely to be paying federal taxes itself , but would pass the liability through to the members . If you 're paying your personal 1040 taxes out of an S-corporation bank account , that 's an owner 's draw just like paying any of your personal non-business expenses . I would encourage you to get a tax professional to prepare your corporate tax returns . It 's not quite as simple as TurboTax Business makes it out to be . ;) Mariette IRS Circular 230 Notice : Please note that any tax advice contained in this communication is not intended to be used , and can not be used , by anyone to avoid penalties that may be imposed under federal tax law .
end question
start question
How long does it take to have no credit history ?
When accounts are completely closed , they may still appear on the credit report 10 years later . Note - I 'm not supposing this , I pulled a report a couple months ago , and it shows a mortgage paid in full in July , 2003 . I 'll see if it actually falls off when I pull the report later this year . There 's no law that good details must be removed after that time . It 's not the lack of use , but the closing of accounts that would impact credit history . In my opinion , avoiding ongoing debt is fine , but it 's ' fringe ' to do it so extremely that you find you have no credit history . Trying to rent a car or hotel room on a debit card is n't so simple . When I rent a $ 200 hotel room , a bit more than that is frozen to account for mini-bar , room service , etc. . You might have $ 2000 in your account , and between room , car , and gas purchases , see it all frozen when you only intend to spend $ 1500 . Last , try to get a mortgage with no credit history at all . It wo n't be easy . All the above issues can be avoided by finding one or two good credit cards with no fee and using them to fill the gas tank every few months . Doing this on purpose seems an unnecessary way of complicating one 's life . ( Admittedly , there are people who go to the other extreme , trying to get the most in rewards , and treating it like a game . No need for that , either . I enjoy the game but am not an advocate of it for those who wish to keep things as simple as possible . )
It is in dollars , but US government can not " print " dollars . That 's prerogative of the Federal Reserve , which is formally an independent institution . They sometimes do something that amounts to " printing money " - heard about " quantitative easing " ? That 's it . But US Treasury ca n't do that . To fund whatever US Govt needs money for , it can get money in two ways : collect taxes or sell bonds ( i.e. take loans ) . Since most of the budgets recently run a deficit , that means US Govt collects less taxes than it spends . The difference is covered with loans , or bonds . So the debt is the sum of all government bonds held by individuals or foreign nations . As many of the lottery/casino winners have learned , the key to financial soundness is to have more income than spending . If you spend more than you got , it does n't matter how much you 've got - you 'll end up broke . US Government , for political reasons , routinely <URL> - because for politicians , spending gets them elected , while austerity gets them hated . Thus US debt is growing . Private people and foreign government gave those loans to US government . They do it because they consider it relatively safe investment and they get interest on it - just as you would do if you have savings account . Your savings account is a loan to a bank and earns you interest . US Government bond is a loan to the government and earns them interest . In fact , most of the bonds more like CD ( certificate of deposit ) than savings account , since they are given for a fixed amount of time - 5 , 10 , 20 , etc. years . There are shorter and longer term bonds , but in any case you can not demand payment before the term ( though you can sell the bond and recover the money , but somebody then needs to buy it from you ) . Since most of the people trust that US Government is not going under any time soon , since , as you noted , US is wealthy , they are content with investing their money and getting the interest . The size of the debt is not dangerous until there 's doubt that the debtor can repay - and the fear is that we approaching this threshold . It 's like somebody taking a mortgage - if you have good income , you can take a big mortgage , but the bank will ( or supposed to , at least :) related the mortgage size with your repayment ability . So far US repayment ability was found adequate by people , but if we abuse it , it may change and then US is up for the tough times - just as if someone stops paying the mortgage . In this case , both sides lose - the investors lose their investment or at least see it diminish and the US loses its credibility and thus ability to take more loans . Nobody wants it happen , so politicians from all countries try to work together to prevent it . We 'll see how good they manage to do it .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
For a newly registered business , you 'll be using your " personal " credit score to get the credit . You will need to sign for the credit card personally so that if your business goes under , they still get paid . Your idea of opening a business card to increase your credit score is not a sound one . Business plastic might not show up on your personal credit history . While some issuers report business accounts on a consumer 's personal credit history , others do n't . This cuts both ways . Some entrepreneurs want business cards on their personal reports , believing those nice high limits and good payment histories will boost their scores . Other small business owners , especially those who keep high running balances , know that including that credit line could potentially lower their personal credit scores even if they pay off the cards in full every month . There is one instance in which the card will show up on your personal credit history : if you go into default . You 're not entitled to a positive mark , " but if you get a negative mark , it will go on your personal report , " Frank says . And some further information related to evaluating a business for a credit card : If an issuer is evaluating you for a business card , the company should be asking about your business , says Frank . In addition , there " should be something on the application that indicates it 's for business use , " he says . Bottom line : If it 's a business card , expect that the issuer will want at least some information pertaining to your business . There is additional underwriting for small business cards , says Alfonso . In addition to personal salary and credit scores , business owners " can share financials with us , and we evaluate the entire business financial background in order to give them larger lines , " she says . Anticipate that the issuer will check your personal credit , too . " The vast majority of business cards are based on a personal credit score , " says Frank . In addition , many issuers ask entrepreneurs to personally guarantee the accounts . That means even if the businesses go bust , the owners promise to repay the debts . <URL>
No , at least not noticeably so . The majority of what HFT does is to take advantage of the fact that there is a spread between buy and sell orders on the exchange , and to instantly fill both orders , gaining relatively risk-free profit from some inherent inefficiencies in how the market prices stocks . The end result is that intraday trading of the non-HFT nature , as well as speculative short-term trading will be less profitable , since HFT will cause the buy/sell spread to be closer than it would otherwise be . Buying and holding will be ( largely ) unaffected since the spread that HFT takes advantage of is miniscule compared to the gains a stock will experience over time . For example , when you go to buy shares intending to hold them for a long time , the HFT might cost you say , 1 to 2 cents per share . When you go to sell the share , HFT might cost you the same again . But , if you held it for a long time , the share might have doubled or tripled in value over the time you held it , so the overall effect of that 2-4 cents per share lost from HFT is negligible . However , since the HFT is doing this millions of times per day , that 1 cent ( or more commonly a fraction of a cent ) adds up to HFTs making millions . Individually it does n't affect anyone that much , but collectively it represents a huge loss of value , and whether this is acceptable or not is still a subject of much debate !
Uncrossed postal orders can be turned directly into cash and thus definitely take no time to clear . Crossed postal orders have to be paid into a bank account , and so it 's possible the bank would take some time to clear them . However they ca n't be rejected because of insufficient funds , as the sender already paid for it . I do n't have any personal experience of them and in particular I 'm not quite sure what happens if you pay in a postal order that either already has been or is subsequently reported lost or stolen . The <URL> is my main source of information .
You 've correctly understood the way charitable donations work . They are non-refundable tax credits , which means they reduce your income tax bill if you pay any , but ca n't reduce it below zero . <URL> . However the good news is that <URL> . This means that your best strategy is to hang on to those tax receipts , and assuming you start earning taxable income in the next five years , claim them then . EDIT : I would expect that making the donation through one of your parents would work . Essentially you would be giving the computers to your parents , and they would give them to the charity . You would have to make sure the receipts were issued in your parents name . You would also have to make sure that the amounts involved were small enough that your parents did n't pay tax on the gift to them , but in the amounts you seem to be talking about that should n't be a problem .
Seven years . From the <URL> : In general , negative information more than seven years old from the date of last activity ( ten years for bankruptcies ) must be removed from your file .
Gold 's value starts with the fact that its supply is steady and by nature it 's durable . In other words , the amount of gold traded each year ( The <URL> ) is small relative to the existing total stock . This acting as a bit of a throttle on its value , as does the high cost of mining . Mines will have yields that control whether it 's profitable to run them . A mine may have a $ 600/oz production cost , in which case it 's clear they should run full speed now with gold at $ 1200 , but if it were below $ 650 or so , it may not be worth it . It also has a history that goes back millennia , it 's valued because it always was . John Maynard Keynes referred to gold as an archaic relic and I tend to agree . You are right , the topic is controversial . For short periods , gold will provide a decent hedge , but no better than other financial instruments . We are now in an odd time , where the stock market is generally flat to where it was 10 years ago , and both cash or most commodities were a better choice . Look at sufficiently long periods of time , and gold fails . In my history , I graduated college in 1984 , and in the summer of 82 played in the commodities market . Gold peaked at $ 850 or so . Now it 's $ 1200 . 50 % over 30 years is hardly a storehouse of value now , is it ? Yet , I recall Aug 25 , 1987 when the Dow peaked at 2750 . No , I did n't call the top . But I did talk to a friend advising that I ignore the short term , at 25 with little invested , I only concerned myself with long term plans . The Dow crashed from there , but even today just over 18,000 the return has averaged 7.07 % plus dividends . A lengthy tangent , but important to understand . A gold fan will be able to produce his own observation , citing that some percent of one 's holding in gold , adjusted to maintain a balanced allocation would create more positive returns than I claim . For a large enough portfolio that 's otherwise well diversified , this may be true , just not something I choose to invest in . Last - if you wish to buy gold , avoid the hard metal . GLD trades as 1/10 oz of gold and has a tiny commission as it trades like a stock . The buy/sell on a 1oz gold piece will cost you 4-6 % . That 's no way to invest . Update - 29 years after that lunch in 1987 , the Dow was at 18448 , a return of 6.78 % CAGR plus dividends . Another 6 years since this question was asked and Gold has n't moved , $ 1175 , and 6 years ' worth of fees , 2.4 % if you buy the GLD ETF . From the '82 high of $ 850 to now ( 34 years ) , the return has a CAGR of .96 % / yr or .56 % after fees . To be fair , I picked a relative high , that $ 850 . But I did the same choosing the pre-crash 2750 high on the Dow .
Get a credit report on yourself , if the report shows the outstanding debt then you can do something about it by writing to the bank . However keep in mind that a bank might write off a debt if they consider it not worth the cost of chasing it down . You could also try the lost bank account service : <URL>
Here 's the deal with that . The mutual fund can be advertised as " No Load " because the fund itself is n't charging transaction fees , even if the broker is tacking on their own transaction fees . Some brokers do this , especially for " No load " funds because they are n't getting their usual kickback commission from the mutual fund company through the traditional channel of the mutual fund load . Long story short : It is a technicality . It is a no load fund , but from your perspective it may not be any better than a loaded fund . It is all about who is collecting the fees . Sneaky , huh ? Here 's a good article on the topic : <URL> .
The Card Issuer does the Credit History checking . The card can be issued by Bank or some other financial institution . The Central Bank/Regulators in each countries set-up an Credit Bureau that acts as a central store of all the Credit history of an individual with any/every financial institution . It is mandetory for all Financial institutions to report certain kind of transactions like Credit Card Spends/Defaults , Mortage Due , Auto Loan and some other kind of transactions depending on the country regulations . The data that these Financial institutions need to submit on a regular basis to Credit Bureau includes the amount of loan , the repayments , defaults , etc. . Any Financial institution that needs to give a card or loan can query this information to find out Credit History . Normally not all Financial institutions directly connect to Credit Bureau , but there are some Reproting companies that connect to Credit Bureau and provide the relevant information to the requested financial institution . The Credit Bureau or the Reporting companies is not a guarantor . Its only an information provider . The Financial Institution must based on the information take action as appropriate , ie give loan / card or refuse or charge higer rate of interest or give lower limits etc. . Initially quite a few Card Companies issued cards directly . Even today Amex issues and services its own card . Master &amp; Visa on the other hand always use tie-up . The advantages with the tie-up being that one get to service a large area and georgaphies where other already have a significant presence . For example Setting up of the Swipe Machines at Merchant establishment &amp; servicing it is expensive &amp; timeconsuming . Plus Marchant may not be comfortable dealing with one more entity . Here Master &amp; Visa leave it to individual Bank to accquire the Merchant . Same is the case with accquiring Customers . Its easy for a Bank to sell me a credit card if I hold an account , they already have the marketing means for doing it . The results are very clear with the number of cards issued by Master &amp; Visa far exceeding those of Amex . In many countires Merchants refuse accepting Amex because they do n't have a good network and dont get paid easily . The co-branded card is additional flavour to encourage customers spend on a particular type of card . Every time a card is swpied say for 100 % , the merchant gets only 97.5 / - Typically 1.5 goes to the Issuing Bank [ as they are out of funds for 30-40 days of credit period ] . 0.5 goes to the merchant 's bank who installed the swipe machine and paid the merchant . 0.5 goes to Master/Visa [ Card Company ] . Take an example of Delta Airlines where tickets are booked by a person using Visa Issued by Bank of America . Bank of America also has put swipe machine in Delta Airlines . In this case the merchant Bank and the Issuer bank is same and hence they would get 1.5 +0.5 , and Visa would get 0.5 . In order to leverage this , Delta would come out with a co-branded card with Bank of America for Visa . Of the 2 % earned by Bank of America , some would be passed to the customer . The customer if he is a frequrent flier would take this card as he gets discounts , airline is happy because its got a dedicated customer , the bank is happy because by co-branding its got dedicated customer of delta booking tickets using its card , the volume increase makes up for the money &amp; discounting . Same principal applies to other co-branded cards . Hope this is clear .
In Australia , banks use 3 main criteria to assess your mortgage application . Your Credit History - they will generally knock back an application if the applicant has a history of defaulting on loans and other payments . You would pose too high of a risk . Your current Net Income ( after tax ) - used to assess whether you are able to make the monthly mortgage repayments . If you are getting rental income the banks will only count about 75 % of your net rent to allow for when the property is vacant ( between tenants ) . Your Equity in the property - generally to avoid paying LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) you would need a minimum of 20 % of your own funds as a down-payment/deposit so that the LVR ( Loan to Value Ratio ) is not more that 80 % . If you are going for a Low Doc Loan ( where you only have to sign a Statutory Declaration regarding your income and not provide the supporting documentation to prove it ) you will generally require a maximum LVR of 60 % ( i.e. 40 % down-payment/deposit ) . Please Note : In some areas where there has been an over supply of apartments built , the bank might require you to have a lower LVR , closer to 60 % , where you are buying a unit in such an area . So as long as you have an ok credit history ( you have not defaulted on any loans or payments ) , the extra savings could be used to increase your equity in the property and thus reduce or eliminate the payment of any LMI , or help you to get a Low Doc Loan if you are self employed , have an inconsistent income stream , or where documentation for proof of income is limited . Summing up , the savings in the bank will provide you with the biggest benefit in this case .
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
They have forever to collect a balance from you . Furthermore they can add whatever penalties and fees they wish to increase that balance . Worst of all , they do n't have to remind you or send you bills or any other notification . You owed it when you left the office . ( There very well could be local laws that require notifications , but that is n't really the issue here . ) That dentist has every right to deny you service until you settle the account . Forever . The question you want to know is how long can they sue you for the debt . The statute of limitations on collecting that debt via court : <URL> Which covers the rules on HOW LONG they have to collect the debt . Owing the money is one thing , but the rules and tools that you creditor has to collect the debt are another . You are probably worried about them suing you . But if you do n't pay the debt ( or settle in some way ) , that dentist can refuse to provide services to you , even if they write off the debt . Ways you can be punished by your dentist for not paying the bill are : Credit Reporting : Depending on your jurisdiction and/or type of debt , they typically only report it on your credit ( if they are reporting at all ) for 7 years . Even if you pay and settle the account , it will still be reported on your credit report for 7 years . The difference is how it is reported . They can report that " user133466 is a super reliable person who always pays debts on time " . They can say " user133466 is a flake who pays , but takes a while to pay " . Or they can say " user133466 is a bad person to provide services before collecting money , because user133466 do n't pay bills " . Other people considering lending you money are going to read these opinions and decide accordingly if they want to deal with you or not . And they can say that for 7 years . The idea of credit reporting is that you settle up as soon as possible and get your credit report to reflect the truth . Getting a Judgement Against You to Collect : One popular way to collect a debt to is to sue you for it . There , each state has a different time period on how long a creditor has to sue you for a debt . <URL> If you pay part of the debt , that will often reset the clock on the statute of limitations , so be sure any partial or negotiated settlements state very clearly , in writing , that payment is considered payment in full on the debt . Then you keep that record forever . They Can Hassle You For The Money : There are other interesting points in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . See <URL> . They can only contact you in certain ways , they must respond to you in certain ways , and they have limits on what they can say , who they can say it to , and when they can say it . There are protections from mean or vicious bill collectors , but that does n't sound like who you are dealing with . I do n't know that the FDCPA is a tool you need to use in this case . Bottom line - You Should Pay : You should negotiate your debt and try your best to settle up . From your post , both parties dropped the ball , and both parties should give a little . You should pay no or minor late fees , and the doctor should report your credit positively when you do so . If you both made honest mistakes , they both parties should acknowledge that and be fair , and not defensive . This is not legal advice . But you owe the debt , so you should settle up . I do n't think it is fair for you to not pay because they did n't mail you a paper . However I also do not think it is fair for the doctor to run up fees and not remind you of the bill . Finally , you did n't bring up insurance or many other details . Those details can change the answer .
As a general principle if you are able to comfortably afford Rs20 K every month , with contingency , you should go ahead . The value of Rs 7000 may be less in later years , however it does not impact anything , the other consideration you need to make is if you can afford 20 K , then paying 7 K in interest will leave you with 13 K. Are you comfortable to make an investment of 13 K in something that will return you more than 10 % [ the rate you are paying as interest ] . If you do n't believe you can get more return , then you should take the loan for shorter period .
According to <URL> , basic accounts can not accept credit cards ; you need to upgrade at least to a Premier account to do so . Their <URL> gives both phone and e-mail contacts if you want to discuss this with someone who actually knows what they 're talking about .
If you have an AMEX from another country , you can get an AMEX in the US . American Express has a separate system that is not as strongly country-dependent as , say , VISA and MasterCard . Equifax operates in both Canada and the United States , so if you 're from Canada you can ask the bank to get your credit score through Equifax . Not a lot of people know about this but it can be done , so be persistent if they say it ca n't . This may be possible with other credit reporting agencies as well . If you have proof of income and some cash , most banks will let you get a card . They let teenagers with no credit get a card !
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
Good question , and increasingly common for professionals . If you 're intending to return to your starting point ( i.e. retire back in your " home " country ) then your existing retirement vehicles will be fine . However , if not , structured policies do n't transfer largely because of tax rules . Global firms have employees that shift about and sometimes have systems in place to permit their employees to move pensions with them . So a little forward planning may be required if you use an employer to smooth your emigration difficulties . Otherwise , international currency-denominated equities will make things more flexible . The US dollar does n't look too good right now and , in 30 years , may no longer be the world 's reserve currency , so you 'll probably want a currency basket to hedge that far ahead . That means buying equities on a range of different exchanges to gain access to different currencies when you sell ( or receive dividends ) . Fortunately , that is n't as difficult as it was a few years ago and numerous online investment services can permit you to trade around the world with a single account . See , for example : <URL> <URL> <URL> E * Trade , Sharebuilder , TD Ameritrade and Scottrade as options as well .
end question
start question
Deadline to amend a 1040 tax return filed late ?
Yes , you can still file your amended return . The statute tolls with the late filing . Per <URL> : File Form 1040X only after you have filed your original return . Generally , for a credit or refund , you must file Form 1040X within 3 years ( including extensions ) after the date you filed your original return or within 2 years after the date you paid the tax , whichever is later . If you filed your original return early ( for example , March 1 for a calendar year return ) , your return is considered filed on the due date ( generally April 15 ) . However , if you had an extension to file ( for example , until October 15 ) but you filed earlier and we received it July 1 , your return is considered filed on July 1 . If it makes you feel better , three years later filing is not extreme . Congrats on starting the clock for the statue of limitations on 2010 tax year . Also note that there is <URL> to amend a return for information that was accurate to the best of your knowledge at the time . Which I assume is not the case for you .
Even for those of us who are n't at risk of over drafting , direct debit is a less-than-stellar option . Direct debit is a great way to begin ignoring how large your bills are . By explicitly paying them through my bank 's online billpay , I notice immediately when a bill is larger than it ought to be . This is often caused by a billing error . In which case I 've found it far easier to resolve disputes when the money is still in my hands . It 's significantly harder to convince an internet provider , cell phone service , or utility to reverse an incorrect charge after it 's been paid than it is before . The other times , it 's because I 've been using the service more than normal . For example , sending text messages more frequently or using more electricity . Explicitly paying these bills makes me realize upfront that there 's been a change in my behavior and I can either reduce my expenses or accept the higher cost for higher service . My own experience leads me to believe that paying your bills automatically every month is a great way to ignore these events , and leak money like a sieve . Online bill pay makes doing this as trivial as I could hope for , and the risk of missing a payment is essentially nil .
No they do not . From <URL> , a single , non-blind dependent under age 65 must file if the following are true : You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was over $ 1,000 . Your earned income was over $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,000 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 . There is no return required for receipt of a gift .
I assume you are talking about the " Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet " . Form 1040-ES itself does n't have a line 1a . Everything on this worksheet should be figures for the entire year . At the very end ( line 17 on the " Estimated Tax Worksheet " ) you will divide by 4 to get your estimated tax payment for each quarter .
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
That 's true for the tax return . The T1135 has some late penalties . These only apply if you had to file one , some/most people do n't . <URL>
Only nonresident alien F1 are <URL> ( Social Security tax and Medicare tax ) ; resident alien F1 are still subject to FICA taxes ( except students on in-school employment ) . Since according to you you are a resident alien because you have been here more than 5 calendar years , you are subject to FICA taxes , regardless of whether you file jointly with your spouse or not . You should inform your employer that you are not exempt from FICA because you are a resident alien , and they should withhold FICA taxes from you . However , withholding it is the employer 's responsibility , and it is they who owe the taxes to the government , not you . If they refuse to withhold it , there is nothing you can do , and nothing you need to worry about . The tax return is about income taxes . FICA taxes are generally not reported on the tax return , and do not affect your income taxes . There is nothing you need to " amend " on your tax return .
Neither . A Look at <URL> will show you the math by which taxable income is calculated . 22 lines to get to your total income . 37 to your adjusted gross , 61 to your taxable income . ( Note , there are tax credits that may appear in the remaining lines , which can wipe out any or all of the tax bill of line 61 . You can be in the 10 % bracket , but have Uncle Sam pick up the remaining tab . ) For most people in the US , personal exemptions and the standard deduction are the two largest reductions to one 's income . For the next group , it 's the <URL> that will tally enough deductions to exceed the standard deduction and the taxpayer benefits from " itemizing . " The recent Question <URL> should answer how you know your bracket once you arrive at your taxable income .
No , you ca n't . However , there is a tax efficient way of getting childcare that is available through some employers : <URL> In brief , if your employer chooses to offer these , then you can get up to # 243 per month of " vouchers " that you can then spend on eligible childcare providers - basically anything like a childminder , nursery or nanny , but not normally your own relatives . Normally employers wo n't provide them for free , but instead provide them in exchange for a " salary sacrifice " which is from your gross salary - so roughly equivalent to getting a tax deduction . Both parties ( employer and employee ) also save on national insurance contributions , which creates a significant incentive for the employer to offer the scheme . Most large employers do offer it . Note that the limit of # 243/month is a total for the parent , not per child . The UK government has announced that the scheme will be changed from April 2011 , so that people who start getting the vouchers from that date will only be able to avoid basic rate tax ( 20 % ) , so those paying the higher marginal rates of tax ( 40 % , or 50 % for very high earners ) will still have to pay the difference between their marginal rate and basic rate on the vouchers .
The long term view you are referring to would be over 30 to 40 years ( i.e. your working life ) . Yes in general you should be going for higher growth options when you are young . As you approach retirement you may change to a more balanced or capital guaranteed option . As the higher growth options will have a larger proportion of funds invested into higher growth assets like shares and property , they will be affected by market movements in these asset classes . So when there is a market crash like with the GFC in 2007/2008 and share prices drop by 40 % to 50 % , then this will have an effect on your superannuation returns for that year . I would say that if your fund was invested mainly in the Australian stock market over the last 7 years your returns would still be lower than what they were in mid-2007 , due to the stock market falls in late 2007 and early 2008 . This would mean that for the 7 year time frame your returns would be lower than a balanced or capital guaranteed fund where a majority of funds are invested in bonds and other fixed interest products . However , I would say that for the 5 and possibly the 10 year time frames the returns of the high growth options should have outperformed the balanced and capital guaranteed options . See examples below : First State Super AMP Super Both of these examples show that over a 5 year period or less the more aggressive or high growth options performed better than the more conservative options , and over the 7 year period for First State Super the high growth option performed similar to the more conservative option . Maybe you have been looking at funds with higher fees so in good times when the fund performs well the returns are reduced by excessive fees and when the fund performs badly in not so good time the performance is even worse as the fees are still excessive . Maybe look at industry type funds or retail funds that charge much smaller fees . Also , if a fund has relatively low returns during a period when the market is booming , maybe this is not a good fund to choose . Conversely , it the fund does n't perform too badly when the market has just crashed , may be it is worth further investigating . You should always try to compare the performance to the market in general and other similar funds . Remember , super should be looked at over a 30 to 40 year time frame , and it is a good idea to get interested in how your fund is performing from an early age , instead of worrying about it only a few years before retirement .
At this time , Google Finance does n't support historical return or dividend data , only share prices . The attributes for mutual funds such as are only available as real-time data , not historical . Yahoo also does not appear to offer market return data including dividends . For example , the S&amp;P 500 index does not account for dividends -- the S&amp;P ^ SPXTR index does , but is unavailable through Yahoo Finance .
If the correction results in you owing them money , you typically just need to pay them the appropriate amount . I believe they charge back-dated interest on the amount if it was supposed to have been paid in the past , but if it 's for this year 's taxes then payment is n't due until the end of April and so interest would not apply . In some circumstances , they may apply fines or press charges for tax evasion , but only if they have reason to believe you intentionally/knowingly attempted to misrepresent your tax return in order to avoid paying taxes . You can challenge their decision to fine you , but you are considered guilty until proven innocent . Obviously that 's the opposite for any criminal charges . The good news is , lots of people accidentally enter the wrong numbers and the CRA is aware of this and rarely takes action against them , other than making them pay what they owe . They have ways to look for suspicious behavior and differentiate that from innocent mistakes . So do n't worry , you should be fine , not fined .
Well , one of the requirements for you to be able to claim someone as a dependent is that he/she must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien . So the key issue here is whether your parents are resident aliens . Someone is a resident alien if they pass either the substantial presence test , or the green card test . Your parents do n't have green cards , so it 's the substantial presence test that is relevant . This is where how long they 've stayed in the U.S. is important . They satisfy the substantial presence test for 2013 if : ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2013 ) + 1/3 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2012 ) + 1/6 of ( number of days they were present in the U.S. in 2011 ) > = 183 days . Do they satisfy that ? If they do , then they are resident aliens for 2013 . If they are resident aliens , then they can be claimed as dependents . Note-1 : if they are resident aliens , all their worldwide income would be subject to U.S. taxes . Note-2 : As per this <URL> , to pass substantial presence test , you have to be in USA atleast 30 days for the current year in addition 183 days calculation which includes current year and last two years / .
No , the IRR is n't how your funds are performing in the market unless you are putting in the max on Jan. 1 and then not adding or removing anything for the year so that it matches the total return of the fund . It 's a computation of what is your personal rate of return in terms of how much money have you put in , which is beginning balance plus contributions , compared to the ending balance factoring in any withdrawals . Thus it is how much each dollar you invested did over the course of the period that the return is given . Something to point out here is that if you are dollar-cost averaging then the IRR is a better measure of how your performance is as it is n't quite the same as the total return of the fund . Consider the case of a fund that goes up 10 % each month and you invest $ 100/month into the fund for an entire year , just to keep the Math simple here . The fund 's total return is ( 1.1 ) ^ 12 = 3.138428376721 which is 214 % . So , if you invested $ 1200 at the start of the year , you 'd have $ 3766.11 at the end of the year for a gain of $ 2566.11 . However , if we space out the computations , the end total becomes a mere $ 2352.27 , for a gain of $ 1152.27 , as the compounding is reduced . Thus , in this case your IRR is 96 % since you invested $ 1200 and made $ 1152.27 on it . For those wanting the raw figures , here is the $ 100/month returns at the end of each month : 110231364 .1 510.51 671.561 848.7171 1043.58881 1257.947691 1493.74246 1753.116706 2038.428377 2352.271214 In contrast , here is how the $ 1200 invested as a lump sum , does : 132014521597 .2 1756.92 1932.612 2125.8732 2338.46052 2572.306572 2829.537229 3112.490952 3423.740047 3766.114052 As the final totals are rather different , the rate of returns should also be quite different . The total returns are different because in one case , the person spaced out the purchases compared to the other case . These should n't both have the same return unless you 're going to factor in the time value of money somehow to make up the difference .
Do n't ever , ever , ever let someone else handle your money , unless you want somebody else have your money . Nobody can guarantee a return on stocks . That 's utter bullshit . Stock go up and down according to market emotions . How can your guru predict the market 's future emotions ? Keep your head cool with stocks . Only buy when you are ' sure ' you are not going to need the money in the next 10 years . Buy obligations before stocks , invest in ' defensive ' stocks before investing in ' aggressive ' stocks . Keep more money in obligations and defensive stock than in aggressive stocks . See how you can do by yourself . Before buying ( or selling ) anything , think about the risks , the market , the expert 's opinion about this investment , etc. . Set a target for selling ( and adjust the target according to the performance of the stock ) . Before investing , try to learn about investing , really . I 've made my mistakes , you 'll make yours , let 's hope they 're not the same :)
FBAR is enforced by the IRS , and OVDP is administered by the IRS , and as part of the program your tax returns will be examined . So I 'd personally say that the answer is yes - treat it as part of the tax preparation fees . If you want to deduct tax preparation fees , you can do it as part of your itemized deductions , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold , so yes - you have to itemize . It is entered on <URL> .
This entirely depends on the individual store 's policies . In general , stores are not required to accept returns at all . So when they do accept returns , they can put any conditions they want on them . In the past , the original receipt was the only record of a sale . When you returned the item , they would write on the original receipt , so that it could not be used again to return the same item . They would not accept photocopies ( or digital pictures ) because there was no way to validate them . Many stores now keep a complete record of every sale in a database . Those stores do n't need an original receipt . They can simply look up the number from your photo of the receipt and validate it . Once you return the item , the receipt is marked in the database so that it can not be used for a return again . Not every store allows this , however . You 'll need to ask the stores you shop at to find out what their return policies are .
The IRA contribution for the year are allowed until the tax day of that year . I.e. : you can contribute for 2015 until April 15th , 2016 ( or whatever the first business day is after that , if the 15th is a holiday ) . You 'll have to explicitly designate your contribution for 2015 , since some of the IRA providers may automatically designate the current year unless you explicitly say otherwise . If that happens - it will be very hard to fix later , so pay attention when you 're making the contribution . You get a couple of things from your IRA provider : <URL> - details your contributions for the year , account FMV , and RMD details . You can see the actual form <URL> . You do n't always get this form , if you did n't contribute anything and no RMD is required for you . Since the last day to contribute is April 15th , these forms are usually being sent out around mid-May . But you should know how much you 've contributed by the tax day without it , obviously , so this is only for the IRS matching and your record-tracking . <URL> includes information about distributions ( including withdrawals and roll-overs ) . You may not get this form if you did n't take any money out of your IRA . These come out around end of January .
It depends of the specifics of the bond , but assuming that you are holding to maturity and the coupon payments are semi-annual , you want a YTM calculator such as the one at Prentice Hall <URL> . The major difference with a YTM calculation is that you are adding back the face value at maturity . The total return varies based on the purchase price , discount rate , face value , and the number of remaining payments . In a " real world " situation , you should also be aware that this equation does not account for any amount of default risk , so if you buy a bunch of junk , in reality you may get less .
Aside from the fear that you or a loved one will spend it frivolously , I 'm hard pressed to come up with another reason . If you 'll owe money in the next tax year , you have the rest of the year to adjust your withholdings and/or make quarterly payments . As both my fellow PFers state , you 're better off getting your money back . Better still , use it to pay off a high interest debt .
end question
start question
How can I report pump and dump scams ?
Start with your local police department then move on to these sites . Fill out the United States Postal Service fraud complaint form <URL> Contact your State Attorneys General . Your state Attorney General or local office of consumer protection is also listed in the government pages of your telephone book Write to the Federal Trade Commission : spam@uce.gov If you are aware of a securities ( e.g. , stocks ) scam , insider trading , etc. , you will want to contact the SEC ( Securities and Exchange Commission ) . <URL>
The formulas used by the three major credit bureaus ( Experian , TransUnion , Equifax ) are proprietary trade secrets . They 're each slightly different , and are fed differing data , so your " score " is likely to deviate from bureau to bureau . A Google search for " Credit Score Estimator " returns several pages of links to FICO estimation web apps . Be careful ; you 're feeding personal information about your credit history into these sites in many cases . I just ran through <URL> , which does not ask for any identifying information , and estimated my score to within 40 points , and is accurate as of the last time I checked my actual scores .
Sign up with a broker that is participating in the IPO . ( I do n't think that the date is even set yet , so it 's probably a little early to check . ) Read and follow their instructions . <URL> as a sample .
Your daughter can give you ( and also as many other persons as she likes , for that matter ) $ 14K or less each year as a gift without needing to file a Federal gift tax return . She does not have to report the money anywhere on her Federal income tax return or anywhere else . In particular , she does not get to deduct that money in arriving at what is called the Adjusted Gross Income or the Taxable Income on her income tax return . In other words , that $ 14K is coming out of money which she has in her bank accounts , and on which she has already paid income tax . All she has to do is write you a check or hand over cash or buy you a car or whatever . ( But be aware that the $ 14K exemption applies to the totality of all gifts given to you by your daughter that year , including birthday , anniversary , Christmas presents etc. , not just cash or check ) . You , as the recipient , do not need to declare the $ 14K that you will receive from her as income and pay income tax on it to the Federal Government . You do n't owe gift tax either ( even if the gift exceeds $ 14K in any year ) : gift tax is assessed on the donor , not the recipient ( except in very unusual circumstances ) . Since Texas has no income tax , there is no State income tax issue for you either . Some of this may be inapplicable if you and/or your daughter are not US citizens or US tax residents or if State gift tax rules have different exemptions in the State in which your daughter resides .
Several things to do : Change your bank . $ 2 for a check ? Why ?? When shopping for a new bank : ask for a free checking account . College students can get free checking in almost any bank . At least the first box of checks will be free , which will give you enough checks for the next several years ( I 'm still not half done with the box I got from WaMu 5 years ago ) . Check out your neighborhood credit union . Most of them have free checking and free checks for students as well . If still no luck - check online check printing services , they 'll send you a box for less than $ 25 , that 's for sure . <URL> for example ( 1 box - $ 7 ) . Also , you can use banks ' bill-pay service for any check you write , if you know the address of the person , the amount and the sum a couple of days ahead of time . That should cover rent , and probably most of your other checks .
You got a refund last year right ? I believe your 1099-G is probably the income from that . The G is government income .
In the United States , nobody is obligated to report information on your to the credit bureaus . Doing so is an incentive they hold to keep you honest . If repossession of an item is n't an option , lenders have little recourse besides hurting your credit . It is n't all that hard to declare bankruptcy , and lenders are n't allowed to threaten ( or act on ) you with harm . <URL> Furthermore , companies are n't even required to report accurately it seems . The law simply says that you can have it corrected , not that companies are bound for accuracy in the first place .
It is important to remember that the tax brackets in the U.S. are marginal . This means that the first part of your income is taxed at 10 % , the next part at 15 % , next at 25 % , etc. . Therefore , if you find yourself just on the edge of a tax bracket , it really does not make any difference which side of that line you end up falling on . That having been said , of course , reducing your taxable income reduces your taxes . There are lots of deductions you can take , if you qualify . Depending on what type of health insurance coverage you have , a Health Savings Account ( HSA ) is a great way to shelter some income from taxes . Charitable contributions are also an easy way to reduce your taxes ; you do n't really personally benefit from them , but if you 'd rather send your money to a good cause than to Uncle Sam , that 's an easy way to do it .
Not ATM , because for that your friend would need your ATM card , but yes in person in the branch . If you can have someone who knows your account number come in to a Chase branch with the check - they 'll be able to deposit it for you . edit A reminder - the check must be endorsed by you or be " for deposit only " .
I found a page , <URL> , listing fuel taxes by province . Ontario 's gas prices already includes 14.7 cents per litre of provincial fuel tax , and comments noted " Additional taxes include 5 % GST . " For Nova Scotia and New Brunswick , where HST is in effect , comments noted " Additional taxes include 13 % HST . " That would seem to imply that if Ontario is introducing the HST , then there will be an additional 8 % added ( Ontario 's current PST ) to the price at the pump . I wanted definitive information , though , so I did a little more digging : First , I came across <URL> , at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue , confirming fuel tax of " 14.7 cents per litre of unleaded gasoline " . While it confirmed the fuel tax , it did n't mention GST or HST . Next I found <URL> , also from the Ontario MoR . That page lists goods &amp; services that wo n't be affected because they are already subject to both GST + PST , and then goes on to list those that will be affected since they are n't currently subject to PST . One item listed under " Change in Taxable Status " is gasoline : ... some goods and services that were not subject to the PST will be subject to the provincial portion ( eight per cent ) of the HST for the first time . ... Change in Taxable Status Electricity Gasoline Heating Fuels Internet Access Fees Personal Services ( e.g. , Hairstyling ) Professional Services ( e.g. , Legal , Accounting and Real Estate Fees and Commissions ) Tobacco So : I expect all-in fuel prices in Ontario to jump on July 1st , 2010 , when HST takes effect . Finally , here 's one more resource I came across : Petro Canada has a blog called <URL> with this post : <URL> ( March , 2009 ) . Relevant excerpt : ... Obviously there are many details yet to be released , so this is just for fun . If nothing were to change , simply adding the 8 % Ontario PST and applying it the same way as the GST is applied to today 's pump price in Ontario would add 6.6 cents in tax to a litre of gasoline . That means a pump price of about 92 cents per litre today in Toronto rather than 86 cents ... or about $ 2.64 more for that 40 litre fill-up . ...
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
You need a source of delisted historical data . Such data is typically only available from paid sources . According to my records , AULT ( Ault Inc ) began as an OTC stock in the 1980s prior it having an official NASDAQ listing . It was delisted on 27 Jan 2006 . Its final traded price was $ 2.94 . It was taken over at a price of $ 2.90 per share by SL Industries . Source : Symbol AULT-200601 within Premium Data US delisted stocks historical price data set available from <URL> Disclosure : I am a co-owner of Norgate / Premium Data .
According to the privacy policies of at least some of the banks and financial institutions , they reserve the right to keep your information even after you have ceased all relationship with them . You can forbid them from sharing it , but not from keeping it . Unfortunately , there 's no law to protect you in such case .
I have always though that the <URL> organization has a lot of good information . Including one on the <URL>
Because an equity option can be constructed at essentially any price by two willing counterparties on an exchange , there are not enough ISINs to represent the entire ( i.e. infinite ) option chain for even a single stock on a single expiration date . As a result , ISINs are not generated for each individual possible options contract . Instead the ISIN is used only to refer to the " underlying " symbol , and a separate formula is used to refer to the specific option contract for that symbol : So that code you pasted is not an ISIN but rather the standard US equity option naming scheme that you need to provide in addition to the ISIN when talking to your broker . Note that ISINs and formulas for referring to option contracts in other countries can behave quite differently . Also , there are many countries and markets that do n't need ISINs because the products in question only exist on a single exchange . In those cases the exchange is pretty much free to make up whatever ID scheme it wants . P.S. . Now I 'm curious how option chains are identified for strike prices above $ 99,999 . I looked up the only stock I can think of that trades above that price ( <URL> ) , but it does n't seem to have an option chain ( or at least Google does n't show it ) ...
It may be reported to the Treasury ( <URL> ) . Any cash transaction of over $ 10K is . In addition to the strict reporting requirements that the FinCen imposes , banks can report whatever they feel like if they think its suspicious . Another thing to keep in mind is that the IRS might ask for a gift tax return from the payer , or a foreign gift report from you . While you claim this is a loan , it may not necessarily be seen as such by the IRS . You need to have proper paperwork ready to show the source of the money if asked , and show that it is a bona fide loan , and that 's it . Also , how would I report capital gains on trades that I have made . Do I actually have to send every single trade I make to the government and show profits and losses on each trade ? Yes . That would be part of your schedule D or E on your yearly tax return .
One things about psychology - people spend more money when its an abstract concept instead of having cold , hard cash . What does this mean ? People spend more money when they use credit cards for day to day purchases . While I still use a credit card for day to day purchases , there 's a big difference between bringing $ 200 to costco to pay for groceries and laying out 10 $ 20 bills vs swiping a card when you see a number flash on the screen . If you 're truly looking to reduce expenses , keep this in mind .
It sounds like your current loan is in your name . As such , you are responsible for paying it . Not your family , you . It also sounds like the loan payments are regularly late . That 'll likely drastically affect your credit rating . Given what you 've said , it does n't surprise me that you were declined for a credit card . With the information on your credit report , you are a poor risk . Assuming your family is unable to pay loan on time ( and assuming you are n't willing to do so ) , you desperately need to get your name off the loan . This may mean selling the property and closing out the loan . This wo n't be enough to fix your credit , though . All that will do is stop making your credit worse . It 'll take a few years ( five years in Canada , not sure how many years in India ) until this loan stops showing up on your credit report . That 's why it is important to do this immediately . Now , can a bank give you a loan or a credit card despite bad credit ? Yes , absolutely . It all depends on how bad your credit is . If the bank is willing to do so , they 'll most likely charge a higher interest rate . But the bank may well decide not to give you a loan . After all , your credit report shows you do n't make your loan payments on time . You may also want to request your own copy of your credit report . You may have to pay for this , especially if you want to see your score . This could be valuable information if you are looking to fix your finances , and may be worth the cost . If you are sure it 's just this one loan , it may not be necessary . Good luck ! Edit : In India <URL> is the authority that maintains records . Getting to know you exact score will help . CIBIL offers it via TransUnion . The non-payment will keep appearing on your record for 3 years . As you do n't have any loans , get a credit card from a Bank where you have Fixed Deposits / PPF Account as it would be easier to get one . It can then help you build the credit .
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
end question
start question
How to cancel an online order and get a refund back from a U.S. service provider ?
I 'm not sure you can get a refund . In the US , companies are n't required by law to offer one . You could contact GoDaddy 's customer service and ask them , but I would guess that they 'll agree with the contents of the legal agreement . Unless there is another part of the agreement that does allow you to get a refund ( there might be , I have n't read it ) , you 're probably out of luck . And yes , this is legitimate . It 's a legal agreement , and by checking the box ( if there was one ) , going through with the purchase , etc. you indicated that you read and agreed to the legal agreement , and therefore accepted that you would n't be offered a refund . GoDaddy is n't responsible if someone purchases something from them without reading the agreement before agreeing to it . Furthermore , the legal agreement is n't the only place where the refund policy is stated . GoDaddy 's page , <URL> says : Your purchase is non-refundable and non-transferable . This is a help page , not something you explicitly agree to ( and therefore not legally binding ) , but as a lesson for the future , always read the description of what you 're purchasing before you purchase it . For general reference : if for some reason you were the victim of fraud , e.g. a company offered a refund in their legal agreement but refused to give it you , and you paid with a credit card , you have more options because you could work with your credit card company to potentially get your money back . In this case , however , the agreement was clear , so this is n't an option .
Is this the most direct way ( removing the middle man ) of investing in stocks ? There ai n't no middleman , like the old days . But if you take it literally , the broker is the middleman . What other services should I consider ? Use a comparison website or trawl the web for opinions and reviews . Pay particular importance to how client money is safeguarded , the financial health of the service provider , which regions you can trade , commissions , inactivity fee , read between the lines of their agreement before you sign on the dotted lines and if they provide other services too and of what kind . And if you want to walk away , what will be the consequences and if they provide a grace period or not . what platform I should use ? Which platform you use , should be dependent on your requirements and on your requirements alone . Not what I use or what the seller is offering . Do n't go for gimmicky offerings , but check how it will benefit you now or in the future .
As per the <URL> the Social Security Tax is not considered . There is no mention of State Tax . As per the definition , only Federal Tax is considered .
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
If you owe a lot of money ( more then $ 500 or $ 1000 ) you will get hit with penalties . You will also have to file every quarter the next year . That is very painful . There is a safe harbor if you make sure that you have withheld more money than your taxes from the previous year . The information you provided is not enough for me to give specific advice . But here is a hint : Right after you file this year , use turbo tax to determine what changes you can make to your withholding to minimize any excess withholding .
Options Industry Council allows you to input your own data on a 4 leg position : <URL>
You need to use one of each , so a single order would n't cover this : The stop-loss order could be placed to handle triggering a sell market order if the stock trades at $ 95 or lower . If you want , you could use a stop-limit order if you have an exit price in mind should the stock price drop to $ 95 though that requires setting a price for the stop to execute and then another price for the sell order to execute . The limit sell order could be placed to handle triggering a sell if the stock rises above $ 105 . On the bright side , once either is done the other could be canceled as it is n't applicable anymore .
The value of the fund and the change in that value is going to be related mostly to the contents of the fund . All the two versions are doing is basically allowing you to see a price both after and before exchange rates are taken into account . If it 's a US Index fund , investing in US stocks , then only a Canadian investor is likely to benefit or suffer from currency exchange rate changes . All a US investor would be doing is paying exchange rate fee 's to their bank to change your money into CN$ Or the reverse if you live in Canada and buy the US version For the Canadian investor this is effectively a ' international ' fund of sorts , and currency risk is a part of that . As you will note that the fund has currently had a stronger return due to a weak Loonie , and that information is presented in BOTH versions of the fund , you could expect that for you , if the Loonie gets stronger , the performance ( for you ) of that fund to go down , no matter which version you invest in . A Canadian investor who expects the Loonie to get stronger would be want to be investing in international instruments only to the extent they expected the return to outpace the changes in currency values , relative to what they could get returnwise in a domestic investment .
This 2010 SEC rule seems to say that under extraordinary circumstances , a trade can be cancelled , by the exchange , any time after it was made : Release No. 34-62259 ; File No . SR-NYSEArca-2010-47 Rule 6.89 ... According to the proposal , in the event of any verifiable disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of any electronic communications and trading facilities of the Exchange , in which the nullification or modification of transactions may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors and the public interest exist , a Trading Official , on his or her own motion , may review such transactions and declare such transactions arising out of the use or operation of such facilities during such period null and void or modify the terms of these transactions , in accordance with the guidelines contained in sections ( a ) ( 3 ) ( C ) ( i ) ( aa ) - ( bb ) of Rule 6.87 . Pursuant to the proposal , the Trading Official , absent extraordinary circumstances , must initiate action under this authority within sixty ( 60 ) minutes of the occurrence of the erroneous transaction that was a result of the verifiable disruption or malfunction . [ Italics are mine . ] <URL> This rule seems to have gone into effect because it was cited in this news article : <URL> This is an interesting rule I had not known about previously , I wonder if it gives too much power to the exchange ...
Within Canada , to send money to a friend online , you 'd typically use the <URL> service offered by most Canadian banks &amp; credit unions . <URL> . My bank charges $ 1.50 to send money via Interac e-Transfer , and zero to receive . Charges are likely to vary by bank . FWIW , <URL> is a not-for-profit organization &amp; network founded about 30 years ago by some major Canadian banks to facilitate ATM , debit , and other electronic financial transactions within Canada . It 's also possible at some banks to set up another person 's bank account as a " personal payee " -- at which point the account becomes available as a bill payment candidate in your online banking . I know at least three of the <URL> have this functionality . I use it at my own bank , but only for payees who also bank at my institution , and I 'm not sure if it works between banks . You 'll need to ask your candidate banks if they have such a feature , and whether it costs anything . The nice thing about the " personal payee " functionality is that , at least at my bank , there 's no cost , so for recurring transfer scenarios it can keep costs down . To send payments outside of Canada , wire transfers remain an option -- but doing so through a Canadian bank may be expensive . There exist some non-bank wire transfer providers that have more competitive fees and exchange rates . PayPal remains an option as well .
File a small claims lawsuit in the city that the person resides . The court will charge you a small fee and give you a date . They will also summons the other person to appear . Bring all the documentation that shows the following The contractor ( you ) The contractee ( your friend ) The goods being transferred ( in your case the money with exact amount ) The start date of the agreement The end date of the agreement Proof that you transferred the money to them BONUS - Bring the documentation that shows them saying they will not pay you back I had to sue someone once for a very similar problem . I lent them a 6 month interest free loan . They told me to shove it after 6 months and 1 day . So I sued them . The court should accept facebook messages as proof . More than likely though your friend wont even show up which means you win by default . Here 's the bad news , that was the easy part . Just because you win in court does n't mean the money appears the next day . There are a couple ways you may have to recover your money . Ask REALLY nicely for it back ( no seriously , this is the easiest ) File for wage garnishment ( state dependent ) Sell your claim to collections company to collect for you Hire an executioner ( The city has a sheriff usually that handles this . Call them and ask the fee , last resort ) Best of luck to you !
You do n't have to use an agent ( broker , as you call it ) , but it is strongly advised . In some counties lawyers are required , in some not . Check your local requirements . Similarly the escrow companies that usually deal with recording and disbursing of money . You will probably not be able to get a title insurance without using an escrow service ( I 'm guessing here , but it makes sense to me ) . You will not be able to secure financing through a bank or a mortgage broker without an escrow company , and it might be hard without an agent . Agents required by law to know all the details of the process , and they can guide you through what to do and what to look into . They have experience reading and understanding the inspection reports , they know what to demand from the seller ( disclosures , information , etc ) , they know how and from where to get the HOA docs and disclosures , and can help you negotiate the price knowing the market information ( comparable sales , comparable listings , list vs sales statistics , etc ) . It is hard to do all that alone , but if you do - you should definitely get a discount over the market price of the property of about 5 % ( the agents ' fees are up to 5 % mostly ) . I bought several properties in California and in other states , and I would n't do it without an agent on my side . But if you trust the other side entirely and willing to take the risk of missing a step and having problems later with title , mortgage , insurance or resale , then you can definitely save some money and do it without an agent , and there are people doing that .
Each bank builds or buys their own bill pay system , so answers are not universal ( try your banks bill pay system out before fully transferring over , if I did n't like mine I 'd get a new bank ) , but for your questions in order : All of my bills have been paid as scheduled , but I have had long term issues getting bills electronically delivered from one credit card company to my bank . I have to manually pay this bill every month , but it takes a few seconds to make the payment through the bill pay site , rather than the time it takes to procure checks , envelopes and stamps . I need to call my banks online support to fix the above issue , but I have n't yet , since it works well enough . All payments can be easily canceled . The hassle part of switching banks comes in re-entering all your accounts at the new bank and learning the user interface for their bill pay system . Some payment schedules might take time to register in their system , so you might need to snail mail a bill in between . Other things to consider include : Check your bank account at least twice a month to verify what payments have been made ( this is just good general advice ) . I use bill pay to automatically pay the minimum payment so I avoid forgetting to pay my credit card bill . I go over the bill at least monthly to make sure all payments are authorized and correct , then manually issue full payment through the bill payment system . I strongly recommend a push vs. pull method for bill pay ; that is , pushing money from your bank account to pay bills , rather than allowing billers to pull money from your account . This limits the number of companies that you directly give your bank account information to , and makes it easier to hold onto your money when you dispute a mistake they made . It also puts all payment information in once central place so you can keep track of all payment schedules together . Never use a paper check or electronic transfer to pay off a belligerent creditor . After a cell phone provider hit me with inaccurate extra fees , I automatically pay cell bills with a credit card . That is one extra layer of defense to dispute charges through .
You wo n't issue invoices to Apple for your app revenue or iAd revenue . Rather , Apple will pay you ( or your corporation , depending on your relationship with them ) as part of an ongoing arrangement . The payment amounts are determined by Apple , not by you , since sales and ad revenue originate with Apple . However , Apple must provide to you a statement of earnings / sales report with sufficient detail . Read your contract with Apple -- you should find it says something to that effect . In practical terms , you should be able to find what you need in iTunes Connect . Look under Payments and Financial Reports , then under the Earnings tab . Download &amp; print whatever reports contain the relevant information about payments received , to support the deposits shown on your bank statements ( which you 'll recognize as revenue . ) As far as the Canada Revenue Agency is concerned , they want you to keep records and supporting documents , which can include invoices , as well as other kinds of documents : Supporting documents include , but are not limited to the following : sales invoices ; purchase receipts , contracts ; guarantees ; bank deposit slips , cancelled cheques ; cash register slips , credit card receipts ; purchase orders ; work orders ; delivery slips ; emails ; and general correspondence in support of the transaction . Refer to <URL> . Disclaimer : I 'm not an accountant , so consider talking to one . You could also <URL> and ask .
The term " <URL> " does n't appear to be have a single meaning . It can mean cash back at a closing , extra cash pulled out when refinancing , or an annual rebate of some sort . If you provide the requested details , of the terms of a loan near $ 500K that sports a $ 1300/mo payment , you 're likely to get some excellent advice . The article I linked suggests these are just gimmicks and I agree . I 'd focus on a normal product . Edit - in response to OP 's " over the phone " comment - When asking about a mortgage you need to know ( and we need this to answer ) - Principal - the dollar amount lent to you . Interest rate - the annual percent charged on the balance The term of the loan - In the US , 30 year fixed is a popular choice . In Canada , I understand loans run 5 years , and are then renegotiated . Very simple - After those 5 years , what is the balance on the loan ? Now , that 's the mortgage itself , Asdfg above comments to remember there are other expenses , the property tax , homeowner association , if any , PMI ( or any mortgage insurance , common for low downpayment loans ) and the one time closing costs . ( If I missed something , I hope someone will just edit into this list )
Yes , you need to report this . It will be treated as self-employment income and goes on Schedule C of your personal Form 1040 . The product does n't matter - software , sculpture , book are all the same .
The company gets the proceeds from the sales of shares on the open market . If a company is selling 1,000,000 shares at $ 12/share then they will receive $ 12,000,000 from the underwriter minus some fees that the underwriter will collect . The part that ties into valuation is to consider what percentage is the company selling of itself that is coming from its own holdings . If the company is putting out 10 % of its shares in the IPO from treasury holdings on a $ 10B valuation then it will get $ 1B minus the fees I 'd suspect . Where I worked in late 1990s/early 2000s had an IPO where the underwriter did a bridge loan and the IPO so that the company did n't get all the money raised but did get enough to run operations for a while before ending operations . <URL> notes that after an IPO other offerings would be called " seasoned equity offering " that may or may not be dilutive as they could come from new or existing shares .
Many of these products are similar in nature and often depend on the issuing bank . Cashier 's Check Are checks signed and guaranteed by the bank . This means the funds are coming from the bank instead of your account -- which usually means they immediately take the money from your account . This is usually the most secure of the options and usually does n't have many restrictions . Certified Check Are checks signed by the customer , certified by the bank that you have enough funds and that your signature is genuine . Usually , but not always - the bank will set aside the funds . Bank Draft Similar to a certified check but the bank will set aside the funds until the bank draft is used . Generally used in transactions involving larger sums . Money order It 's a payment order similar to a certified check ; however , it needs to be prepaid . Also money orders may have maximum face values allowed .
I 'd first put it in CDs or other short term account . Get through school first , then see where you land . If you have income that allows you to start a Roth IRA , I 'd go for that , but keep it safe in case you actually need it back soon . After school , if you do n't land a decent job fast , this money might be needed to live on . How long will it last if you take a few months to find work ? If you do find a good job , moving , and setting up an apartment has a cost . Once you 're there , I 'd refer you to the many " getting started " Q&amp;A s on this site .
No , as far as I know , a free credit report is only available by mail . Here 's <URL> with contact information for Equifax and TransUnion for ordering a credit report by mail . Also note that anyone offering free online credit reports in Canada is lying through their teeth . There are a couple sites out there ( e.g. , canadafreecreditscore.ca , freecreditreportsincanada.ca ) that offer a " free " online credit report in seconds , but that 's just the hook line and sinker for <URL> . Not sure of the details , but I generally avoid anything that 's not Equifax or TransUnion for credit reports .
end question
start question
What single metric is the ultimate measure of personal wealth ?
The number of days you could sustain your current lifestyle if you stopped working for money today
The number of days you could sustain your current lifestyle if you stopped working for money today
The address on your tax return is where they will send correspondence , including refund checks . If you do n't want to use either your old U.S. address or your current foreign address as a permanent mailing address , you might want to use a mailing service , or a friend/family member that you trust . Occasionally the IRS or a state will question your residency based on the address used , though the IRS might figure it out if you file Form 2555 to claim the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion . Some states will wonder why you 're not filing resident returns if the mailing address for you is in that state . If that happens , ( 1 ) make sure it 's not a domicile state and you really are n't a resident , and ( 2 ) send them a letter saying that you are living overseas and that the address they have is only your mailing address , and give them your foreign residence address .
I think I understand what you 're trying to achieve . You just want to see how it " feels " to own a share , right ? To go through the process of buying and holding , and eventually selling , be it at a loss or at a gain . Frankly , my primary advice is : Just do it on paper ! Just decide , for whatever reason , which stocks to buy , in what amount , subtract 1 % for commissions ( I 'm intentionally staying on the higher side here ) , and keep track of the price changes daily . Instead of doing it on mere paper , some brokers offer you a demo account where you can practice your paper trading in the same way you would use a live account . As far as I know , Interactive Brokers and Saxo Bank offer such demo accounts , go look around on their web pages . The problem about doing it for real is that many of the better brokers , such as the two I mentioned , have relatively high minimum funding limits . You need to send a few thousand pounds to your brokerage account before you can even use it . Of course , you do n't need to invest it all , but still , the cash has to be there . Especially for some younger and inexperienced investors , this can seduce them to gambling most of their money away . Which is why I would not advise you to actually invest in this way . It will be expensive but if it 's just for trying it on one share , use your local principal bank for the trade . Hope this gets you started !
The fair tax is a proposal to replace the US income tax with a sales tax . Pros of Fair Tax : Allows less manipulation of tax code for political reasons ( For good or bad , why is mortgage interest tax deductible ? ) It 's voluntary . Buy something , pay tax . Do n't buy something , do n't pay tax . Bigger paychecks ( but less spending power per dollar because of higher sales taxes ) . Role of IRS would be much smaller - in theory , tax is easier to calculate . It 's a large change to the way the United States currently does things . The " Fair Tax Act of 2011 " is <URL> in the US House and <URL> in the Senate . The full text of the bill is available at the links provided . There are some fairly large consequences of implementing a fair tax . For example , 401ks and Roth IRAs serve no benefit over non-retirement investments . Mortgages would no longer have a tax advantage . Luxury items would get far more expensive .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
The point of the enrollment penalty is basically the same as the ACA penalty . Any sort of health insurance - or really , any insurance - is funded by creating a risk pool of high and low risk people and pricing it so that the overall payments cover the total risk . That means , however , that on average the low risk people end up paying more than their share - more than it would have cost them , without the insurance , excepting any provider agreements to charge less ( which is significant in the health insurance business ) . ( Of course some of them do end up using more than they pay - but not on average , assuming the risk was calculated accurately . ) While there is n't really a completely low risk pool in Medicare , there is a significant difference in utilization ( = cost ) between younger ( 65-70 ) and older enrollees . As such , for many health 65 year olds , it would be beneficial to not enroll in Medicare right away - delay a few years , if they 're fully healthy , and wait until they are less healthy . Since Medicare wo n't turn you away for pre-existing conditions , that 's a risk some would take . In order to accommodate for that , Medicare effectively says , " If you did n't help subsidize the costs of the high users when you were younger , you need to pay more to make up for that fact " - hence the enrollment penalty . The New York Times <URL> in a 2006 article discussing Part D ( which was new that year , and has a similar penalty ) : The purpose of the late enrollment penalty is to encourage people to sign up as soon as possible , before they have significant drug costs .
Quoted from <URL> Personal injury protection ( or PIP , for short ) is a type of medical payments coverage added on to an auto > insurance policy that provides you , the policyholder -- as well as your passengers , relatives living in your home , > and drivers authorized to operate your vehicle -- with medical coverage for immediate and subsequent injuries > sustained during an auto accident . PIP also covers you and your family if you 're injured in a car accident while in someone else 's vehicle and , in > some states , if you 're struck by a vehicle while you 're a pedestrian . So if everyone you are driving with is covered by Personal Health Insurance , you may not need to go for this .
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
The short answer is yes , losses get passed through to members . Limits/percentages do apply , primarily based on your share in the business . Check out the final post in this thread : <URL> It 's not a bad little summary of the profit/loss pass-through . Regarding your 60K/60K example : the amount of money you earn in your day job will impact how much loss you can claim . Unfortunately I ca n't find anything more recent at the IRS or business.gov , but see this from 2004 - 40K was the limit before the amount you could claim against started to be mitigated : <URL> HTH
The cost of living is quite high in New York City . It has the highest CPI ( Consumer Price Index ) of any city in the U.S. Salaries also tend to be highest in NYC . Just about any bicycle lock sold in the U.S. has an exception in its warranty for NYC . It is the most populous American city . So , why do people deal with all the hassles of living here ? Because , it is a hotbed of activity . I venture that the advantages are basically the same in Zurich : Job opportunities Business opportunities Lifestyle options
There are two kinds of ' additional cardholders ' on a credit card . With most , you simply permit someone else to charge payments to your account as if they were you . You are entirely responsible for settling the accounts . If this is the case ( and it looks from your comments as if it is ) then their credit score wo n't matter . What will matter is whether or not you settle any charges they run up . They will be treated as if you had spent that money . The less normal kind is where the credit card account is in a joint name . Normally in that case the credit card company will have already checked the credit records of a co-applicant . Any problems with the account will reflect on both of you .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
To get the quarterly effective interest rate , the quoted interest rate should be divided by four thus . To get the annual effective interest rate , the effective quarterly interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken the fourth power thus : To get the total return , the effective annual interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken to the fifth power thus : Relationship between the effective annual and compounded interest rate The spread between the APR &amp; EAR is proportional to compounding frequency and to the APR. . The EAR will always be greater in magnitude than the APR and will always have the same direction because of the nature of the formula : Because the EAR is a geometric representation of the interest rate while the APR is the arithmetic representation . <URL> Change in terminology In the US , the APR is fast becoming interpreted as the EAR because EAR disclosure is now mandatory for most products , but this has not historically been the case and probably still is n't the case everywhere else . Effective from compound rates Compounded annual rates are usually the effective rates multiplied by the number of compounding periods . Historically , arithmetic averages were preferred over their more accurate geometric counterparts because of ease of calculation . When interest rates are small and calculators expensive , this is sufficiently accurate . This explains the strange math behind compound rates , which the US has more or less abandoned . Now that anyone can buy a pocket calculator for next to nothing , it pays to be more precise with interest rate calculation especially at near-0 rates since a 0.1 % error while paying 1 % is a possible 10 % increase in debt costs .
A limit order is simply an order to buy at a maximum price or sell at a minimum price . For example , if the price is $ 100 and you want to sell if the price rises to $ 110 , then you can simply put a limit order to sell at $ 110 . The order will be placed in the market and when the price reaches $ 110 your order will be executed . If the price gaps at the open to $ 111 , then you would end up selling for $ 111 . In other words you will get a minimum of $ 110 per share . A stop limit order is where you put a stop loss order , which when it gets triggered , will place a limit order in the market for you . For example , you want to limit your losses by placing a stop loss order if the price drops to $ 90 . If you chose a market order with your stop loss as soon as the price hits $ 90 your stop loss would be triggered and the shares would sell at the next available price , usually at $ 90 , but could be less if the market gaps down past $ 90 . If on the other hand you placed a limit order at $ 89.50 with your stop loss , when the stop loss order gets triggered at $ 90 your limit order will be placed into the market to sell at $ 89.50 . So you would get a minimum of $ 89.50 per share , however , if the market gaps down below $ 89.50 your order will be placed onto the market but it wo n't sell , unless the price goes back to or above $ 89.50 . Hope this helps .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
Note : I have never heard of this company before this question was asked . These are my thoughts based on a quick review of their website . It seems that Motor Club of America is a roadside assistance service company , similar to AAA . It is ridiculously expensive : $ 20 per month for their " Total Security " plan , or $ 240 per year . This is about double what the highest level of AAA membership costs . As you noticed , they recruit people to sell their Total Security plan in a Multilevel Marketing type scheme . Your Facebook friends and acquaintances that " swear by it " are simply being paid to do so . It 's nothing more than that . Their job is to fill up your Facebook feed with a sales pitch for an overpriced product . Of course , you do n't need to be told this , but selling overpriced products to your friends is not the best way to make money or to keep your friends .
Writing off an asset means saying that you assume its value is zero or close to that . For bookkeeping purposes , you 're saying you do n't think you 'll ever get that money back , directly or indirectly . The company collapsed , the project fizzled out , the crop failed ... Writing down an asset means reducing your estimate of its value , but not to zero . You think there is at least some chance the investment will pay off , or at least will have enough assets / value to cover part of what you paid for it , and this number is your current best guess of what it 's actually worth so that can be reported accurately as part of your own net worth . Same idea , just different degrees .
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
end question
start question
What to do with an unused money order ?
The fee you were charged to get the money order is gone . You agreed to that fee when you purchased the Money order . It is now a check that you can use how ever you wish . If you have already added a name to the pay to line it can be changed but different agencies have different rules for what they will accept . Take the money order to your bank explain the situation and tell them you want to put the money in your account , or cash it .
The fee you were charged to get the money order is gone . You agreed to that fee when you purchased the Money order . It is now a check that you can use how ever you wish . If you have already added a name to the pay to line it can be changed but different agencies have different rules for what they will accept . Take the money order to your bank explain the situation and tell them you want to put the money in your account , or cash it .
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
No . You can sell anytime . I am in pedantic mode , sorry , the way the question is worded implies that you can sell only if it rises . You are welcome to sell at a loss , too . Yes . The fund will not issue a dividend with every dividend it receives . It 's more typical that they issue dividends quarterly . So the shares will increase by the amount of the undistributed dividends and on the ex-div date , drop by that amount . The remaining value goes up and down , of course , I am speaking only of the extra value created by the retained dividends .
I just read this article and found it useful <URL> Options outlined in the article ( read the article or about the different solutions to learn more ) : Continue paying and wait until the home value comes back up ( if you have the money and are commited to this home ) Refinance ( if you qualify ) Rent it out ( if it makes sense financially and you know the pros and cons of being a landlord ) Loan modification ( but watch out for terms , it might end up increasing the monthly payment ) Foreclosure or walking away ( big credit hit ) Deed in lieu ( give home ownership to bank , credit hit ) Short sale ( if you find a buyer and the lender agrees to it , credit hit )
Assuming you 're in the United States , then International Equity is an equity from a different country . These stocks or stock funds ( which reside in a foreign country ) are broken out seperately becuase they are typically influenced by a different set of factors than equities in the United States : foreign currency swings , regional events and politics of various countries .
Sure . Depending on how you configure your order , it will either be fulfilled partially or wait until it can be fulfilled . You can set a time limit on your order ( usually its either 1 day or 60 days , but may vary between brokerages ) , and allow or disallow partial fulfilment .
Looks like it 's $ 500 to start ( certificate of organization ) and $ 500 per year after that ( for an annual report ) . Start here : <URL> And that 's just for the state to recognize you as an LLC .
I traded futures for a brief period in school using the BrokersXpress platform ( now part of OptionsXpress , which is in turn now part of Charles Schwab ) . They had a virtual trading platform , and apparently <URL> , and it was excellent . Since my main account was enabled for futures , this carried over to the virtual account , so I could trade a whole range of futures , options , stocks , etc. . I spoke with OptionsXpress , and you do n't need to fund your acount to use the virtual trading platform . However , they will cancel your account after an arbitrary period of time if you do n't log in every few days . According to their customer service , there is no inactivity fee on your main account if you do n't fund it and make no trades . I also used <URL> for a class and despite finding the occasional bug or website performance issue , it provided a good experience . I received a discount because I used it through an educational institution , and customer service was quite good ( probably for the same reason ) , but I do n't know if those same benefits would apply to an individual signing up for it . I signed up for <URL> about seven years ago when I was in secondary school , and it 's completely free . Unfortunately , you get what you pay for , and the interface was poorly designed and slow . Furthermore , at that time , there were no restrictions that limited the number of shares you could buy to the number of outstanding shares , so you could buy as many as you could afford , even if you exceeded the number that physically existed . While this is n't an issue for large companies , it meant you could earn a killing trading highly illiquid pink sheet stocks because you could purchase billions of shares of companies with only a few thousand shares actually outstanding . I do n't know if these issues have been corrected or not , but at the time , I and several other users took advantage of these oversights to rack up hundreds of trillions of dollars in a matter of days , so if you want a realistic simulation , this is n't it . Investopedia also has a <URL> that I 've heard positive things about , although I have n't used it personally .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
Assuming you have no new cash to add to your account as gyurisc has suggested , I would n't sweat the small amounts -- it does n't hurt to have a little cash sit idle , even if you want to theoretically be fully invested ( the wisdom of doing that , or not , perhaps worthy of another question :-) If you try too hard to invest the small amounts frequently , you 're likely to get killed on fees . My strategy ( if you could call it that ) is to simply let small amounts accumulate until there 's enough to buy more shares without paying too much commission . For instance , I do n't like fees to be more than 1 % of the shares purchased , so with a $ 10 commission per trade , I prefer to make minimum $ 1000 purchases . I used to roll small amounts of cash into a no-load money market fund I could buy without commission , and then purchase shares when I hit the threshold , but even putting the cash in a money market fund is n't worth the hassle today with rates of return from money market funds being close to zero .
The earliest order is the price . If the seller submits a Limit Order to Sell at $ 10 at 9:30 AM , it will enter the order book and $ 10 will be shown to the world as Best Ask . Then if the buyer submits a Limit Order to Buy at $ 20 at 9:31 AM , it becomes a Marketable Limit Order because $ 20 is better than the Best Ask of $ 10 . The trade will be executed at $ 10 , not somewhere between $ 10 and $ 20 . That limit order to buy at $ 20 will never be shown in the order book , nor will the $ 20 be shown as best bid . A trade happens when : Incoming Buy Order has limit price equal to or above National Best Offer ; or Incoming Sell Order has limit price equal to or below National Best Bid . For examples of rules , please see <URL>
Beg , plead , whimper , and hope they take pity on you . Sorry , but there 's no way to force someone to take less than you legitimately owe them except to declare bankrupty , and even that may not do it . If they are n't interested in throwing away $ 3000 , your best bet really is to try to arrange a payment plan , or to get a loan from somewhere and pay that back over time . Of course either of those options is likely to cost you interest , but that 's what happens ... I wish I could say something else , but there really is n't any good news here .
You can designate one or more beneficiaries for your HSA account who will get the money when you die . Some states require consent from your spouse ( if you 're married ) if they are not the beneficiary . The funds maybe taxable to the beneficiary . If you do n't designate any beneficiaries , by default the money will go into your estate and be handled the same as other assets . The funds may be taxable by the estate . If you had any medical expenses before you died , it might be possible to pay them from the HSA . When looking around for information about this I would start with the IRS publications which are the authoritative source of this information . Other articles you read are usually just summarizations of this information and can sometimes be incomplete or incorrect . <URL>
There is a penalty for the excess deposit , 6 % per year until it 's removed . I agree , it seems small , but send in the form , take care of it , and put it behind you . Easy enough .
It 's not enough just to check if your order does n't exceed 10 % of the 20 day average volume . I 'll quote from <URL> : You may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account does n't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the <URL> , not the individual client . This means that if other investors with your broker , or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm , purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at the same time , all of your accounts may face fees , even though individually , you do n't exceed the limits . The NSCC issues a charge to the clearing firm if in aggregate , their orders exceed the limits , and the clearing firm usually passes these charges on to the broker ( s ) that placed the orders . Your broker may or may not pass the charges through to you ; they may simply charge you significantly higher commissions for trading OTC securities and use those to cover the charges . Since checking how the volume of your orders compares to the average past volume , ask your broker about their policies on trading OTC stocks . They may tell you that you wo n't face illiquid charges because the higher cost of commissions covers these , or they may give you specifics on how to verify that your orders wo n't incur such charges . Only your broker can answer this with certainty .
You are looking for a one cancels the other order as described <URL> . Some online trading platforms allow this but I do n't believe all do . You should be able to call your broker and place this order with a real person ( in some cases the commission may be higher ) . You might also call the tech support number for the website and ask if they can walk you through placing the order online as some orders like this may not be intuitive .
" Adjustments to income " are the changes you make to your " total income " to get your " adjusted gross income " . These are things that come between the " total income " line and the " adjusted gross income " line on form 1040 ( i.e. , lines 23 through 36 on the 2014 form ) . These are sometimes called " <URL> " ; they are deductions that you can use even if you do n't itemize deductions . You can see an IRS page about them <URL> . An IRA contribution is indeed an adjustment to income . On <URL> explaining which form to use , you can see that it says you can use 1040EZ if " you do not claim any adjustments to income " , but you can use 1040A if " your only adjustments to income are the IRA deduction , the student loan interest deduction , the educator expenses deduction , the tuition and fees deduction " . That makes it clear that you ca n't use 1040EZ if you want to claim a deduction for IRA contribution .
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
end question
start question
If I amend my federal tax return before I file my state taxes , what do I do ?
I think you can go with option 2 , but I 'm not sure TurboTax supports it . It will probably want to generate an amended form for you .
Will you be paying your mortgage during the period you are trying to sell ? That is the bigger indication of effect on your score . The other thing you might care about is how long you are black listed from future mortgages . It should be only a couple of years if you do a short sale , but closer to 7 if you walked away . The last I heard on the Clark Howard radio show was , as far as direct impact to your score , a short sale , a foreclosure and a deed in lieu all take the same number of points . But those points are not as many as the number of points you lose if you do n't pay your mortgage for several months . Worst case , plan for a drop of 400 points if you are n't paying your mortgage and the sale takes a long time . MyFico released a chart explaining the possible impact . Remember everybody uses a different scoring model , but this is a nice guide . <URL>
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
SOS is Secretary of State . SOS number is the number the Secretary of State office assigned to your entity . You can find it on the LLC application form that you submitted ( assuming you kept the copy of your application returned to you ) , or by <URL> ( the first column , " entity number " , is what you 're looking for ) .
Thus I am thinking of asking the insurance agent to check if she recorded all of the above , because I know that the insured must be honest with the insurer . Is this the correct next step ? I do not know if any " contest-ability period " affects my mother Quite a few illness affect the insurance premium or validity . Hence it is important to disclose these and let the insurance company decide . Thus you should disclose this in writing to the insurance company and get a written confirmation . You could approach the insurance agent , however at times they are not motivated to do this service and may verbally tell you that its not an issue . Hence its advisable that you have documentary proof of this correspondence . Depending on the insurance policy and terms , the insurance company may terminate the policy or keep it with increase in premium or keep the existing policy valid .
Applying some simple Math : $ 725,000 / $ 440,000 = 1.6477272727272 ... So , your cumulative return is 64.8 % if I round to 3 digits . Now , if I take the 5th root of 1.648 , I get approximately 1.1050742047085970060712045917364 So , your annualized rate of return is 10.5 % .
I strongly recommend that you talk to an accountant right away because you could save some money by making a tax payment by January 15 , 2014 . You will receive Forms 1099-MISC from the various entities with whom you are doing business as a contractor detailing how much money they paid you . A copy will go to the IRS also . You file a Schedule C with your Form 1040 in which you detail how much you received on the 1099-MISC forms as well as any other income that your contracting business received ( e.g. amounts less than $ 600 for which a 1099-MISc does not need to be issued , or tips , say , if you are a taxi-driver running your own cab ) , and you can deduct various expenses that you incurred in generating this income , including tools , books , ( or gasoline ! ) etc that you bought for doing the job . You will need to file a Schedule SE that will compute how much you owe in Social Security and Medicare taxes on the net income on Schedule C . You will pay at twice the rate that employees pay because you get to pay not only the employee 's share but also the employer 's share . At least , you will not have to pay income tax on the employer 's share . Your net income on Schedule C will transfer onto Form 1040 where you will compute how much income tax you owe , and then add on the Social Security tax etc to compute a final amount of tax to be paid . You will have to pay a penalty for not making tax payments every quarter during 2013 , plus interest on the tax paid late . Send the IRS a check for the total . If you talk to an accountant right away , he/she will likely be able to come up with a rough estimate of what you might owe , and sending in that amount by January 15 will save some money . The accountant can also help you set up for the 2014 tax year during which you could make quarterly payments of estimated tax for 2014 and avoid the penalties and interest referred to above .
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
In states which have an income tax and require withholding ( like Utah ) , the employer which issues the pay check is responsible for deducting the tax from your pay and sending it to the state . This is just like the procedure for U.S. federal taxes ; the employer deducts the federal tax and sends it to the U.S. Treasury . If you are employed in Utah , your employer is responsible for doing this . The amount typically does depend on various factors , including the number of exemptions declared by you on your W-4 form , and can in some cases be zero . ( Even in that case , it is normal to have a deduction listed on your pay stub , just with a zero amount ) . You need to check with your company 's payroll department or pay accountant .
Context : My parents overseas ( Japan ) sent me a little over $ 100,000 to cover an expensive tuition payment and moderate living expenses in 2014 . They are not US residents , Green card holders or citizens . They did not remit the tuition payment directly to the school . I am a resident ( for tax ) . This is enough to answer yes . That 's basically the set of requirements for filing : you received > $ 100K from a non-US person and you yourself are a US person . You have to report it , and unless it is taxable income - it is a gift . Taxable income is reported on the form 1040 , gifts are reported on the form 3520 . The fact that in Japan it is not considered a gift is irrelevant . Gift tax laws vary between countries , some ( many ) do n't have gift taxes at all . But the reporting requirement is based on the US law and the US definition of " gift " . As I said above , if it is not a gift per the US law , then it is taxable income ( and then you report all of it regardless of the amount and pay taxes ) . Had they paid directly to the institution , you would n't need to count it as income/gift to you because you did n't actually receive the money ( so no income ) and it went directly to cover your qualified education expenses ( so no gift ) , but this is not the case in your situation . Whether or not this will be reported by the IRS back to Japan - I do n't know , but it was probably already reported to the authorities in Japan by the banks through which the transfers went through . As to whether it will trigger an audit - does n't really matter . It was , most likely , reported to the IRS already by the receiving banks in the US , so not reporting it on your tax return ( either as income or on form 3520 ) may indeed raise some flags .
Re the business license - in California business licenses are given by the municipal/county governments , so you 'll have to check that with your city hall or county office . Re taxes - yes , you 'll have to pay taxes , as with any income . Services are considered " imputed income " , and generally you 'd recognize income to the extent they would be paying had they been paying the full price ( or the actual cost of services provided , if more ) . Since this is a hobby and not a for-profit enterprise , your deductions may be limited by the actual income and the 2 % AGI threshold . See more <URL> .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
Even without seeing your score or other detail , the obvious thing you are lacking is time . Five years is n't very long . High credit scores take a lot of history . It is n't just what is in your history that counts , but also how long that history is . Getting on the right track is good , but there is a distance to go on it too .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
Only nonresident alien F1 are <URL> ( Social Security tax and Medicare tax ) ; resident alien F1 are still subject to FICA taxes ( except students on in-school employment ) . Since according to you you are a resident alien because you have been here more than 5 calendar years , you are subject to FICA taxes , regardless of whether you file jointly with your spouse or not . You should inform your employer that you are not exempt from FICA because you are a resident alien , and they should withhold FICA taxes from you . However , withholding it is the employer 's responsibility , and it is they who owe the taxes to the government , not you . If they refuse to withhold it , there is nothing you can do , and nothing you need to worry about . The tax return is about income taxes . FICA taxes are generally not reported on the tax return , and do not affect your income taxes . There is nothing you need to " amend " on your tax return .
I presume you mean your monthly food budget is $ 100 , not $ 500 . The key word is budget , not monthly . If you expect to use the whole $ 500 of credits eventually , and you have enough cash to make that purchase while leaving yourself sufficient reserves for your other needs of course you should take advantage of the 20 % discount . If this would crimp your style , you have to make a decision about how much you are willing to sacrifice to save $ 100 . That ai n't chump change , even by today 's standards . And remember that , since you 're budgeting , you can distribute the pain across multiple months . Would you pay an extra $ 25 for four months to get $ 200 back in the fifth month ? Of course if you really ca n't afford to pay in advance ( where you need to decide what " afford " means ) , this option simply is n't available to you . And if you do n't think you 'll spend all $ 500 on things which accept this campus cash ( maybe you 'll be cooking for yourself or eating off-campus ) , it may not actually save you anything and indeed may tie up money that you would have used elsewhere . You need to decide whether you can afford to make that up-front investment , based on weighing the cost now against the savings later . That is n't a decision we can make for you . Note that it also depends on how well-priced and well-prepared the school 's offerings are ! Btw , this is an exercise in what is known as " opportunity cost " Buying in advance ( assuming you can afford to do so ) ties up that money for a while and thus may cost you the opportunity to do something else with it . You need to make an educated guess about how much that will inconvenience you and whether that cost is worth the gain .
You file in every State you worked in . Technically , while you 're in a State and you work - your earnings are sourced to that State . Also , since you were domiciled in New Jersey - you file there as well , as your residency State . From the time you moved to NY - you should check whether you 're still considered a resident in NJ , but you 're likely to be considered a resident in NY , so you file a part-year return there for that period . It is possible to be considered resident in more than one State at the same time , so it may get even more complicated .
Canada and the United States have a tax treaty , meaning that if you are resident in only one country , under most circumstances you would declare income only in the country of residence . The raw information can be found here on the Canadian Department of Finance Web Site : <URL> . The IRS info is here : <URL> The information is very technical . I would recommend that you speak with an accountant , particularly if you 're talking large sums of money . A less technical summary from the US Treasury : <URL>
I would talk to your HMRC tax office they do have guidance on this issue here <URL>
end question
start question
Is the Investopedia simulator an accurate representation of real stock trading ?
Using any simulator will never be exactly the same as real trading . One reason is that a simulator will always execute your trades at the exact price you want , but that may not always happen in real life . For example , if you place a limit order to buy 1000 shares of a stock at 10.50 , and the price drops down to exactly 10.50 , then the simulator will execute your trade and you will have 1000 shares at 10.50 . But in real life , the price of the stock may drop to 10.50 , but other people may have buy orders ahead of you . If the price of the stock drops to 10.50 but then starts going up again , you may not get all the shares that you wanted ( or you may not even get any shares at all ) due to the fact that people were ahead of you . In real trading there is also <URL> , which you do n't see in a simulator . For example , if you have a stop order to sell 1000 shares of a stock if it drops to 7.50 , then the simulator will sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if the price drops to 7.50 . But in real trading , if the price drops to 7.50 , then you may not be able to sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if there 's not enough liquidity or the market is moving very fast . You may end up selling 100 shares at 7.50 , 100 shares at 7.49 , 100 shares at 7.48 , 50 shares at 7.47 , 50 shares at 7.46 , 200 shares at 7.45 , and 400 shares at 7.44 . Another thing is that you do n't experience the emotional aspect of trading with a simulator . If you buy a stock in a simulator and it goes down , it 's not real money , so you may be more willing to hold it and wait for it to come back up . But if you are trading real money and the stock goes down , you may not be so willing to hold if it goes down . You may be more apt to sell the stock for a small loss before the loss gets too big .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 501/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 501/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
First you will need a plan stating three main points : What to buy ? When to buy ? When to sell ? You will have to decide what criteria you will use to answer these points . You might use Fundamental Analysis to find what to buy and Technical Analysis to decide when to buy and when to sell ( your buy and sell triggers ) . Once you have a Trading Plan in place you would need to find a broker with conditional orders . You can place conditional buy orders to get in a trade ( for example if the price moves above or below a target price ) . You can place conditional stop loss orders if your trade goes against you , and you can also place conditional profit target stops to automatically get out if rises to your desired profit target . You can place one , two or many conditional orders after hours which will enable you to trade without being in front of your screen all day long .
I 'd say that it can not be meaningfully calculated or measured because the two are just too different in every way . Poker is zero-sum all individual games are fully independant of each other . has a large random component , but the properties of this random influence are exactly statistically known . players have incomplete knowledge due to said randomness , but all have the same amount of knowledge . player skill consists of knowing said statistics and analyzing and influencing the behavior of individual other players . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , skilled players will eat you alive . Stock trading is zero-sum in the short term , but not in the long term . a large number of games is constantly running in parallel ( and even overlapping ) , and they are all highly correlated ( this may be the most fundamental difference ) . has almost no truly random components , but an effectively infinite number of influencing factors , which can make it appear random . players have incomplete knowledge because of that . But the amount of knowledge varies widely between players . player skill consists of gaining more knowledge ( research , fundamental analysis , insider trading ) , identifying which influence factors are most important ( fundamental analysis ) , and finding and exploiting correlations ( technical analysis ) . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , you 'll just lose money on trading fees . I guess the last point ( that someone relying on luck is exploitable in poker but not in stock trading ) could be interpreted as stock trading being based more on luck , while the second and third points indicated that poker has more true randomness and is thus based more on luck . Something both have in common is that people who have been losing money are often tempted to take stupid risks which lose them everything .
In the case of Wells Fargo , I believe that free trading is linked to your overall banking relationship with the firm . So if you have a checking account with a balance of $ X , or a total relationship with the bank ( " relationship " is usually defined as loan balances + deposit balances ) over a certain amount , they give you a plum like free stock trades . The theory behind this approach is that banks want to be a one-stop shop for you . The idea is that they can market the banks products to you over a period of years ( lowering customer acquisition cost ) and offer you a level of convenience that allows them to charge a premium for services . For example , many people will pay a rate or fee premium on a mortgage or car loan so that they can do all of their business in one place . In other cases , free trading is linked to marketing campaigns by funds . Charles Schwab started this with the " no transaction fee " mutual fund store many years ago -- transaction fees are actually paid for by the mutual funds who pay for placement in the program . " Free ETF trade " programs are similar .
As an ordinary shareholder , yes you are protected from recourse by the debtors . The maximum amount you can lose is the amount you spent on the shares . The rules might change if you are an officer of the company and fraud is alleged , but ordinary stockholders are quite well protected . Why are you worried about this ?
Insider trading is any trading done on material non-public information relating to an instrument . If my sister , who works for a drugs testing company , tells me that stage 3 trials of a drug look like they will fail and I trade on that information ( probably by shorting a company 's stock ) that is insider trading . If an employee of that firm trades on that same stock knowing that the trials are likely to fail that is too . If an employee of that company trades on the stock without knowing that information that is NOT insider trading . If I know from an insider I met at the pub that a large orange producer has seen a fall in production due to a blight and I trade on oranges futures , even though I am not directly trading in the stock it is still insider trading . I mentioned that the information must be material , that means that it must have the potential to move the market ; if I know that a firm is going to increase profits by 10 % this year it is not material if analyst expectations are for a similar rise . You are right that small scale insider trading , such as by employees and their families , is relatively unregulated and unchecked but directors and C-level employees of a firm are required to publish all and any dealings that they have in the stock and several have been caught and penalized for insider trading . edit : <URL> details some cases , many involving director and C-level employees , that the SEC has prosecuted recently . Incidentally I work in financial fraud monitoring and we use an analytic based on previous days ' trades and today 's news ( i.e. when the information becomes public ) to identify traders who might either be indulging in or receiving orders to trade on insider information . Essentially this works by looking for large changes in position against an instrument that later has material information releases relevant to it . One final thing to think about : given that being caught will generally cause perpetrators to go to prison and be banned from director level jobs and/or trading for life as well as a large , life-changing fine and a massive loss of reputation not many people with insider information want to risk trading on it , myself included .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
In fact , buybacks WERE often considered a vehicle for insider trading , especially prior to 1982 . <URL> , Prior to the Reagan era , executives avoided buybacks due to fears that they would be prosecuted for market manipulation . But under SEC Rule 10b-18 , adopted in 1982 , companies receive a " safe harbor " from market manipulation liability on stock buybacks if they adhere to four limitations : not engaging in buybacks at the beginning or end of the trading day , using a single broker for the trades , purchasing shares at the prevailing market price , and limiting the volume of buybacks to 25 percent of the average daily trading volume over the previous four weeks .
High liquidity does n't necessarily mean that " everybody is getting rid of the stock " , since somebody is obviously buying whatever stock that is being sold . Also , as mentioned , low liquidity may mean that you would have trouble selling the stock in the future .
The curved lines ( on my screen orange , yellow and pink ) are simple moving averages . The fuchsia and blue straight lines are automatically generated trend lines . Those lines are attempting to show how a stock is trending by showing potential bounce points and are commonly used in technical analysis ( TA ) .
While a lot of trading is executed by computers , a substantial amount is still done at the behest of humans . Brokers managing accounts , Portfolio Managers , and Managers of Mutual Funds doing stock picks etc. . Those folks are still initiating a very large number of the trades ( or at least one side of a trade ) . And those humans do n't work 7 days a week . it 's not just computers talking to computers at the behest of other computers . And even a lot of places that use computers to create models and such , there are still humans in the loop to ensure that the computers are not ordering something stupid to be done . I personally worked for a firm that managed nearly $ 20Billion in stock portfolios . The portfolios were designed to track indexes , or a mix of indexes and actively managed funds , but with the addition of managing for tax efficiency . A lot of complex math and complicated ' solver ' programs that figured out each day what if anything to trade in each portfolio . Despite all those computers , humans still reviewed all the trades to be sure they made sense . And those humans only worked 5 days a week .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
I would rate index futures , in particular the US index futures ( e.g. the S&amp;P 500 future ) as the most liquid markets after the forex markets .
There are a number of ways trading stocks is easier than commodities : Stocks have generally more trading activity lowering the cost to trade Generally commodities trading used to involve mostly trading <URL> which have a number of complications . However now that ETFs have expanded this is not as much of an issue . But the main and most important reason is that over long periods stocks in general will tend to outperform inflation as you are investing money in enterprises that generally try to become more productive over time . Whereas commodities in the long term tend to rise only at the pace of inflation ( this is kind of the definition of inflation actually ) . So even uninformed investors that pick stocks at random will generally do better than someone doing the same in commodities even before the higher commodities trading fees are taken into account . Also your orange example may be harder than you think . Once the news that a drought is an issue the price of oranges will almost immediately change well before the oranges come to market ! So unless you can predict the drought before anyone else can you wo n't be able to make money this way .
Reading the descriptions on Amazon.com it appears Investments is a graduate text and Elements of Investments is the undergraduate version of the text .
end question
start question
Stocks : do Good Till Cancelled orders get executed during after hours ?
You 'd have to check the rules for your broker to make sure that the term is being used in its usual sense , but the typical answer to your question is " no . " A GTC will execute during market hours . You would need to explicitly specify extended hours if you want to execute outside of market hours ( which your broker may or may not support ) .
As long as the refund is received prior to the due date of your credit card , it will be counted as a payment . However , you may owe interest for the balance during that time frame . Since you do n't know exactly when the credit will be performed , I 'd recommend against counting on it . Pay the balance shown on your statement and let the credit go towards your next month 's spending .
During after hours , there is less liquidity , defined as the quantity of the asset on the limit book and the spread between the best orders . Actually , for the most liquid securities in the US , trading has actually been extended by fifteen minutes . The liquidity there seems to be rising up to normal levels . If trading on those securities matches normal hours then it would n't be unreasonable to assume another fifteen minutes will be added and so on . The primary exchanges close trading mostly at 4:00 PM with the above noted exceptions . The secondary exchanges trade almost non-stop . They use their internal inventory to do so or communicate directly with the registering agent . This has little to do with floor traders but more with tradition since the NASDAQ also closes at 4:00 PM . If more demand it , the exchanges should be expected to extend trading hours , regulation permitting . I ca n't speak to Canada 's regulation , but in the US , trading hours are traditional not regulatory .
I believe that capital gains do affect AGI , but if she sells $ 40k of stock , then the AGI does n't go up by $ 40k , it only goes up by the gains ( gross proceeds of the sale minus cost basis ) . So if she paid $ 30k for that stock , then the AGI goes up by $ 10k not $ 40k .
According to <URL> , it seems like 401 ( k ) s have unlimited protection , while IRA 's have up to $ 1m in protection . It seems like it 's kind of complicated . If you are trying to protect more than $ 1,000,000 in retirement assets during a personal bankrupcy , you can probably afford to have a good lawyer give you advice .
No , SPDR ETFs are not a good fit for a novice investor with a low level of <URL> . In fact , there is no investment that is safe for an absolute beginner , not even a savings account . ( An absolute beginner could easily overdraw his savings account , leading to fees and collections . ) I would say that an investment becomes a good fit for an investor as soon as said investor understands how the investment works . A savings account at a bank or credit union is fairly easy to understand and is therefore a suitable place to hold money after a few hours to a day of research . ( Even after 0 hours of research , however , a savings account is still better than a sock drawer . ) Money market accounts ( through a bank ) , certificates of deposit ( through a bank ) , and money market mutual funds ( through a mutual fund provider ) are probably the next easiest thing to understand . This could take a few hours to a few weeks of research depending on the learner . Equities , corporate bonds , and government bonds are another step up in complexity , and could take weeks or months of schooling to understand well enough to try . Equity or bond mutual funds -- or the ETF versions of those , which is what you asked about -- are another level after that . Also important to understand along the way are the financial institutions and market infrastructure that exist to provide these products : banks , credit unions , public corporations , brokerages , stock exchanges , bond exchanges , mutual fund providers , ETF providers , etc. .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
There is the <URL> , and of course the general risk of any balloon-style loan . While you think that you have enough self-discipline , you never know what may happen that may prevent you from having enough cash at hands to pay the accumulated tax at the end of the year . If you try to do more risky investments ( trying to maximize the opportunity ) you may lose some of the money , or have some other kind of emergency that may preempt the tax payment .
The two most important things you need to do in order to build great credit is 1 ) Pay each bill on time or ahead of time . 2 ) Keep the balances on your credit cards as close to zero as you possibly can . Doing these two things will keep your credit score as high as it can possibly be . Also try sigining up to receive email notices to financial blogs like <URL> they always have good tips on how to improve your credit , repair it , or build it , among lots of other things .
There are several reasons it is not recommended to trade stocks pre - or post-market , meaning outside of RTH ( regular trading hours ) . Liquidity is very low compared to RTH Fills of market orders can be way off your ordered price ( = possibly higher slippage than in RTH ) because of low Liquidity If you use a leveraged account , pre - and post-market margins are significantly higher than during RTH Since your question is not very detailed I have to assume you trade with a time horizon of at least more than a day , meaning you do not trade intra-day . If this is true , all of the above points are a non-issue for you and a different set of points becomes important . Enter and exit trades during post-market or enter and exit trades at market open , using orders you enter one day before in the post-market session - those orders will be executed automatically or enter trades via Limit and Stop Limit Orders exclusively As a general rule , using ( 3 ) is the safest regardless of what and how you trade because you get price guarantee in trade for execution guarantee . In the case of mid to longer term trading ( 1 week + ) any of those points is viable , depending on how you want to do things , what your style is and what is the most comfortable for you . A few remarks though : ( 2 ) are market orders , so if the open is quite the ride and you are in the back of the execution queue , you can get significant slippage . ( 1 ) may require ( live ) data of the post-market session , which is often not easy to come by for the entire US stock universe . Depending on your physical execution method ( phone , fax , online ) , you may lack accurate information of the post-market . If you want to execute orders based on RTH and only want to do that after hours because of personal schedule constraints , this is not really important . Personally I would always recommend ( 3 ) , independent of the use case because it allows you more control over your orders and their fills . TL ; DR : If you are trading long-term it does not really matter . If you go down to the intra-day level of holding time , it becomes relevant .
Standard deviation from <URL> : In statistics and probability theory , the standard deviation ( represented by the Greek letter sigma ,  ) shows how much variation or dispersion from the average exists . <URL> A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ( also called expected value ) ; a high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values . In the case of stock returns , a lower value would indicate less volatility while a higher value would mean more volatility , which could be interpreted as high much change does the stock 's price go through over time . Mean would be interpreted as if all the figures had to be the same , what would they be ? So if a stock returns 10 % each year for 3 years in a row , then 10 % would be the mean or average return . Now , it is worth noting that there are more than a few calculations that may be done to derive a mean . First , there is the straight forward sum and division by the number of elements idea . For example , if the returns by year were 0 % , 10 % , and 20 % then one may take the sum of 30 % and divide by 3 to get a simple mean of 10 % . However , some people would rather look at a Compound Annual Growth Rate which in this case would mean multiplying the returns together so 1 * ( 1 +.1 ) * ( 1 +.2 ) = 1.1 * 1.2 = 1.32 or 32 % since there is some compounding here . Now , instead of dividing a cubic root is taken to get approximately 9.7 % average annual return that is a bit lower yet if you compound it over 3 years it will get up to 32 % as 10 % compounded over 3 years would be 33.1 % as ( 1.1 ) ^ 3 = 1.331 . Sharpe Ratio from <URL> : A ratio developed by Nobel laureate William F. Sharpe to measure risk-adjusted performance . The Sharpe ratio is calculated by subtracting the risk-free rate - such as that of the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond - from the rate of return for a portfolio and dividing the result by the standard deviation of the portfolio returns . Thus , this is a way to think about given the volatility how much better did the portfolio do than the 10 year bond . R-squared , Alpha and Beta : These are all around the idea of " linear regression " modelling . The idea is to take some standard like say the " S &amp; P 500 " in the case of US stocks and see how well does the portfolio follow this and what if one were to use a linear model are the multipliers and addition components to it . R-squared can be thought of it as a measure as to how good is the fit on a scale of 0 to 1 . An S &amp; P 500 index fund may well have an R-squared of 1.00 or 0.99 to the index as it will track it extremely closely while other investments may not follow that well at all . Part of modern portfolio theory would be to have asset classes that move independently of each other and thus would have a lower R-squared so that the movement of the index does n't indicate how an investment will do . Now , as for alpha and beta , do you remember the formula for a line in slope-intercept form , where y is the portfolio 's return and x is the index 's return : y = mx + b In this situation m is beta which is the multiple of the return , and b is the alpha or how much additional return one gets without the multiple . Going back to an index fund example , m will be near 1 and b will be near 0 and there is n't anything being done and so the portfolio 's return computed based on the index 's return is simply y = x . Other mutual funds may try to have a high alpha as this is seen as the risk-free return as there is n't the ups and downs of the market here . Other mutual funds may go for a high beta so that there is volatility for investors to handle .
The rebate amount is a non-qualified distribution : <URL> describes how the HSA works : Reporting Distributions on Your Return How you report your distributions depends on whether or not you use the distribution for qualified medical expenses ( defined earlier ) . If you use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you do not pay tax on the distribution but you have to report the distribution on Form 8889 . However , the distribution of an excess contribution taken out after the due date , including extensions , of your return is subject to tax even if used for qualified medical expenses . Follow the instructions for the form and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you do not use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you must pay tax on the distribution . Report the amount on Form 8889 and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you have a taxable HSA distribution , include it in the total on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR , line 21 , and enter " HSA " and the amount on the dotted line next to line 21 . You may have to pay an additional 20 % tax on your taxable distribution . I looked at several plans regarding how to handle mistaken distributions : <URL> What if I accidentally use my HSA Visa debit card for a non-qualified expense ? To fix this problem , just bring that same amount into any local branch and tell us it was a Mistaken Distribution . We can then put the funds back into your HSA and correct the problem . <URL> You 're allowed to correct mistaken HSA withdrawals when there is clear and convincing evidence that amounts were distributed from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause . You can correct the mistake by repaying the withdrawal no later than April 15 following the first year that you knew or should have known that the withdrawal was a mistake . When a correction is made , the mistaken withdrawal does not have to be included in gross income or be subject to the 6 percent additional tax , and the repayment does not count as an excess contribution . If an error is made by SelectAccount in its role as the administrator , SelectAccount will be responsible for taking appropriate corrective action . Check with your plan trustee on their procedure to fix the mistaken withdrawal .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
No , it 's not a good idea . You started by saying you 'd like to invest , but then mentioned something that 's not an investment , it 's a speculation . Both Forex and CFDs are not really investments . They are a zero sum game where over time , it 's a pool of your money , the other trader 's money , and the broker , redistributed over time . If you truly wish to invest , you 'll read up on the process , understand your own long term goals , and put aside X % ( say 5-15 ) of your monthly income . You should look into investments that are long term , and will fund your retirement 30-40 years hence .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
It has little to do with money or finance . It 's basic neuroscience . When we get money , our brains release dopamine ( read Your Money and Your Brain ) , and receiving dividends is " getting money . " It feels good , so we 're more likely to do it again . What you often see are rationalizations because the above explanation sounds ... irrational , so many people want to make their behavior look more rational . Ceteris paribus a solid growth stock is as good as a solid company that pays dividends . In value-investing terms , dividend paying stocks may appear to give you an advantage in that you can keep the dividends in cash and buy when the price of the security is low ( " underpriced " ) . However , as you realize , you could just sell the growth stock at certain prices and the effect would be the same , assuming you 're using a free brokerage like Robin Hood . You can easily sell just a portion of the shares periodically to get a " stream of cash " like dividends . That presents no problem whatsoever , so this can not be the explanation to why some people think it is " smart " to be a dividend investor . Yes , if you 're using a brokerage like Robin Hood ( there may be others , but I think this is the only one right now ) , then you are right on .
end question
start question
Which type of company accounts to choose for LTD tax return ?
The Micro-entity Accounts can be used to avoid headache with Full Accounts ( if you want to submit just Accounts ) . The form is quite simple . This is suitable for small companies where : turnover in the period being reported # 632,000 or less ( Net turnover ) total of the balance sheet in the period being reported # 316,000 or less ( Balance sheet total ) company have 10 or less employees during the period company is not in Companies House Accounts <URL> If your company fails within the micro-entity definition , then you can go with Full Accounts ( with abbreviated option ) which allow you to file with Companies House ONLY . You will be guided through interactive Company Tax and Accounts Return Service ( PDF ) . If you would like to file accounts with both Companies House and HMRC use the Joint Filing option ( Companies House Accounts and Company Tax Return to HM Revenue &amp; Customs for Corporate Tax ) ( both are required to send each year ) , then use Full Accounts ( with abbreviated option ) .
Dr. Sarwate 's answers the need for the W-8BEN , and that 's the answer you are looking for . However , the W-8BEN is only required if the US company is paying you directly ( i.e. you appear on the US company 's payroll accounts ) . This would be weird , in general , because US companies very quickly incorporate as a private entity in a foreign land . For example , I expect your " US Bank " to become a separate " US Bank India Private Limited " company in India and reap the various tax subsidies India offers to new companies being setup in India . I also expect you to get paid from and employed by " US Bank India Private Limited " instead of " US Bank " . In this general case , the requirement to fill the W-8BEN seems like a H.R. goof-up or paranoia . Yet , there could be some specific cases , where you , even as an employee of " US Bank India Private Limited " might get paid by " US Bank " . One of those specific cases could be bonuses . I came across this situation years ago when I got a monetary bonus for " Ship IT " and " Great People Great Performance " Awards and had to fill out the W-8BEN as the money was paid off a central fund in the U.S. account . In either case , filling out the W-8BEN seems to have been mandated by the H.R. and there is no US tax impact on you for filling it out . In case taxes are with-held , they would be in error , but you would have to do all the paperwork .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
Normally , clauses letting you drive other cars only apply to cars that you do n't own . So I 'd check your policies carefully , and then insure the Renault in your wife 's name and add her as a named driver to your policy on the Skoda .
There is no " Married " filing status ; there are " Married Filing Jointly " and " Married Filing Separately " . As you are married as of the end of 2016 , you may only file 2016 taxes as Married Filing Jointly or Married Filing Separately ( or in certain situations if you have a dependent , you might be able to choose Head of Household ) , and can not file as Single . You are a resident alien for 2016 , as you pass the green card test . I will assume that your wife has n't been to the US much , so she is a nonresident alien for 2016 , because she does not pass the green card test or the substantial presence test . In this case , there are basically two ways the two of you can do it : File as Married Filing Separately . This basically means you file as Married Filing Separately and she almost certainly does not have to file as nonresident aliens are only taxed on income connected to the US , and I 'm assuming that she does n't have any . Note that the tax calculated for Married Filing Separately is almost always worse than for Married Filing Jointly , especially if the two people 's incomes are very different . File as Married Filing Jointly . Since one of you is a resident alien and the other is a nonresident alien , this will involve using the <URL> election . Your wife will be treated as a resident alien for all of 2016 . As a resident alien , her worldwide income is subject to US tax , and will need to be reported on the tax return , but she should be able to use the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion to exclude the first about $ 100k of her foreign earned income , since she was outside the US for virtually all of the year . If she does n't already have a Social Security Number , she will have to apply for an ITIN together with filing of the tax return . Note that you could also file separately at first , and then ( within 3 years ) amend the tax return to file jointly when it is more convenient ( e.g. after she gets a Social Security Number , so she wo n't have to go through the hassle of applying for an ITIN while abroad ) .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
I 'm not sure there 's much meaningful diversification at Lending Club across loan quality . The important diversification is to have a lot of different borrowers . When you talk about diversifying investments , what you 're going for is to have uncorrelated asset classes , so when one thing goes down , something else might go up , giving you overall less " noise " and more consistent results . Across loan qualities , correlation is pretty high I bet . If consumers come under economic strain , you 'll get increased defaults at all loan qualities . It is n't like having stocks and bonds , where one might go up while the other goes down . All the loan qualities will ( relatively ) suffer at the same time , though the lower qualities will ( absolutely ) suffer more . Anyway the correlation probably is n't perfect so there 's probably some theoretical diversification benefit across loan qualities , but I just doubt it 's big . Maybe someone else has numbers . What you do need is diversification across borrowers . All the loan qualities , statistically on average , should have similar returns ( slightly more for lower quality ) . But they get there in a really different way , either lower interest rates with few defaults , or higher interest rates but more defaults . The " more defaults " way is lumpier and should take , on average , more borrowers and more time to average out to the expected rate of return . Regardless of loan quality , if you only loan to a few people you could easily lose all your money . Important to spread out among a lot of people so you can be fine if some of them take the money and run .
As Dilip stated , the return ( CAGR ) will not be the same as the average . For the simple mathematical explanation - ( R + x ) ( R-x ) will return R ^ 2-x ^ 2 over the two periods , not the average R ^ 2 result . The higher the variance , the worse the return over time . The issue may be less about this in the accumulation phase then when a retiree is withdrawing funds . I 'd prefer the first 10 years of my retirement produce extraordinary returns followed by a below average decade than the reverse .
No they do not . From <URL> , a single , non-blind dependent under age 65 must file if the following are true : You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was over $ 1,000 . Your earned income was over $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- $ 1,000 , or Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 . There is no return required for receipt of a gift .
Evaluate if the Rs 5 million term insurance is sufficient . Typically the term insurance provided by employer is in the range of 1 to 3 times the gross . Generally one should be covered in the range of 5 to 10 times the Gross . The sooner you start the lesser the premium and you can get insured for a large amount for a long duration at very nominal rate . NOTE : Buy Term plan only and not other plans like money back or ULIPS etc. . The only flip side of having insurance from employer only is that in between jobs it exposes you to a risk . You can also buy a health insurance for your father , note these typically come at high cost , generally if over 70 years of age , 25 % is the premium amount and 25 % as co-pay . So if your dad does n't fall ill once in 3 years , its a loss making proposition . Edit : Accident insurance best take is along with rider on term plan . Additional Health insurance is a good idea and helps if you are in between jobs . Plus the new company health insurance can reject a particular treatment as " Pre-Existing " . i.e. certain illness [ in certain plans ] require one to have coverage for 3 years before the claim for it can be covered .
Consult a qualified tax professional . I trust that 's what the " silicon valley types " did ... at least those who still have most of their money left . When you speak to a professional , I would expect a couple of things you 'd be made aware of about such a situation in Canada are : You might qualify for a lifetime capital gains exemption . If you are selling shares in a Canadian Controlled Private Corporation ( CCPC ) , then your first $ 750K of gains may be tax free . Tax free . Did you know about the <URL> ? Read up . Conditions apply . Generally , capital gains income in Canada is n't taxed at the regular income tax rate . Rather , <URL> . That is , the tax on the part over the exemption amount ( should you qualify ) would at worst be only half what you assumed . You do n't know what you do n't know , so before you jump to any conclusions about how much you are likely to owe or else start making plans to leave the country , please consult a professional ( or three ) . Do this soon , before the transaction completes , because sometimes you need some time to structure things in the best way .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
There is no tax reason limiting you from selling and buying investments , in Traditional IRAs , 401k plans , 403b plans etc as well as their Roth versions since you do n't have to pay capital gains on the transactions ( but ca n't deduct the losses either ) . But one thing to keep in mind is that ultimately when money is distributed from a non-Roth tax-deferred account , it comes out as pure income that is taxed at the then current rate without any of the special tax treatment that is afforded to capital gains , qualified dividends , etc. . Depending on where you are in your life cycle , it might be preferable to have a huge capital gain in a non-tax-deferred account and pay taxes ( at reduced rates ) on it right now rather than to receive the same gain in a non-Roth tax-deferred account and pay taxes on it as simple income when you take it out . For Roth accounts , you will have paid taxes up front when the money went in , and withdrawals are tax-free so it is better to have the huge gain in the Roth rather than outside the Roth .
You 're off-by-one ; the deadline to file for refund of TY2010 was Apr. 15 2014 . For the remaining ( in-statute ) refund years , I 'm not so sure as @littleadv it 's actually prohibited , but it certainly ca n't go through the normal logic . I had a case involving several back years " offsetting " ( but not just late filing like yours ) and found that IRS systems and procedures mostly handle each year separately ( they call it a " module " ) . Thus if it is possible to do this for your case , it probably wo n't be easy . I suggest you try the Taxpayer Advocate Service <URL> . This is an omsbudsman function funded within the IRS but reporting independently to Congress . They have discretion which cases they take , so they wo n't necessarily take yours , but if they do they can apply insider knowledge to help you ( though they still have to execute through line functions ) . Not that it helps now , but I think it might have worked to file out of order . I did experience one exception to the " each year separate " rule ; when appeals finally awarded me a refund for one back year , the IRS gladly applied it as of that back year to a debt their systems believed ( wrongly ! ) I owed on another year . If you had filed 2013 and let it be processed , then filed 2011 and 2012 and those processed okay , I am quite certain they would have " diverted " those refunds to your 2013 module -- and maybe " as of " 2012 and 2013 respectively .
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
I 'm unsure of the details , but this is the principle : You would need to setup as a reseller , buy said item ( s ) without paying tax ( on account that you are going to resell them ) , then sell to your customer ( s ) with an appropriate sales tax tacked on to the price you charge . As mbhunter states , the sales tax should only be paid once by the consumer . I believe that you can not avoid setting-up as a reseller , as you would be expected to collect sales tax on the items you sell . In the case that you do pay sales tax on an item and simply pass it on to the final consumer you would at least have to keep a record of the fact that the sales tax was already paid . In the case of a markup , I believe that you have to charge a sales tax on the mark-up . This gets you back to setting up as a reseller , as you generally do not want to expose the markup to your customers . Rather , you would want to buy it tax-exempt , add in the markup and charge sales tax on the entire sale . You may be able to charge them for the service , instead of a markup , though I am very much unsure of this .
The short answer , yes . The relevant information can be found on this <URL> . Excerpt : Determine your residency status : Residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents A part-year resident is any individual who is a California resident for part of the year and a nonresident for part of the year . How California taxes residents , nonresidents , and part-year residents Part-year residents of California - Taxed on all income received while a resident and only on income from California sources while a nonresident . To register , go on this <URL> : <URL> And once you are done registering : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would suggest opening a new account ( credit card and bank ) for just your business . This protects you in multiple ways , but is no bigger burden for you other than carrying another card in your wallet . Then QB can download the transactions from your website and reconciling is a cinch . If you got audited , you 'd be in for a world of pain right now . From personal experience there are a few charges that go unnoticed that reconciling finds every month at our business . We have a very strict process in place , but some things slip through the cracks .
Now , I have kept this money and after interval of 6 month or year whenever the USD price go up , I do exchange with Indian currency and deposit in my account . Now do I have to pay Tax on this money ? No you are not required to pay any tax as the income was accrued when your were NRI for tax purposes . The Foreign currency upto USD 2000 can be held by an individual without any time limit . i.e. you can convert then whenever you want . There is nothing that needs to be declared in Tax Returns .
end question
start question
Please explain : What exactly is a CDS or " Credit Default Swap " ?
From my understanding , a CDS is a financial product to buy protection against an event of " default " ( default of payment ) . Example : if General Motors owes me money $ 10,000,000 ( because I own GM bonds for example ) and I wish to protect myself against the event of GM not repaying the money they owe me ( event called " credit default " ) , I pay FinancialCompany_X ( the seller of the CDS ) perhaps $ 250,000 per year against the promise that FinancialCompany_X will pay me in case GM is not paying me . This way I protected myself against that risk . FinancialCompany_X took the risk ( against money ) . A CDS is in fact an insurance . Except they do n't call it an insurance which enabled the financial industry to avoid the regulation that applies to insurances . There is a lot of infos here : <URL>
Mr. Sethi is 100 % correct , within reason . Open a few cards , but try to limit it to one or two per quarter . Lenders like , in this order : People who pay on time . People with long histories of paying on time . People who have an good credit utilization ratio . Lots of available credit and low utilization will not hurt you from a credit point of view . But ... lenders will close unutilized credit lines eventually .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
Expenses are taken out of the fund 's assets , which lowers the return to investors . ( <URL> ) . As fideli mentioned below , " the indicated unit price has already taken into account the cut that the fund company took as part of its expense ratio . "
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
See <URL> from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) is a loan available to seniors , and is used to release the home equity in the property as one lump sum or multiple payments . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan is deferred until the owner dies , the home is sold , or the owner leaves ( e.g. , into aged care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner makes a monthly amortized payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increases within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 years ) the mortgage has been paid in full and the property is released from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner makes no payments and all interest is added to the lien on the property . If the owner receives monthly payments , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increases each month .
I do n't know personally , but a few minutes spent on Google seem to indicate that such transactions are considered cash advances . I found a thread at fatwallet which states that <URL> . If you want to research it yourself , I used the following search terms : . You could probably narrow down the search results by using as the query .
between two people purchasing a house together , one with good and one with bad credit , will having both persons on the loan raise the interest rates . If the house deed is on both names , generally the Bank would insist the loan should also be on both of your names . This to ensure that Bank has enough leverage to recover the house in case of default . If one of you has bad credit , bank would raise the interest rate , assumption that bad credit would drag the good credit and force him to some activities / actions that could stretch the finance of one with good credit . If timely payments are not made , it would make your good credit to bad . If the house deed is on only on your name and you can get the loan on your own , this would be a better position . If the house deed is on only on your name and you would like to loan to be on both names , then the positive side is credit score of the person with bad credit would start showing improvement over period , provided both of you make timely payments . As pointed out by keshlam , there are enough question where people have entered into agreement without deciding what would happen if they separate . There is no right / wrong answer . It would be best you decide how it would be with respect to the ownership in the house and with respect to payments and if in worst case you part ways , how the settlement should look like .
Securities clearing and settlement is a complex topic - you can start by browsing <URL> , and ( given sufficient quantities of masochism and strong coffee ) progress to <URL> . You 're correct - modern trade settlement systems are electronic and heavily streamlined . However , you 're never going to see people hand over assets until they 're sure that payment has cleared - given current payment systems , that means the fastest settlement time is going to be the next business day ( so-called T +1 settlement ) , which is what 's seen for heavily standardized instruments like standard options and government debt securities . Stocks present bigger obstacles . First , the seller has to locate the asset being sold &amp; make sure they have clear title to it ... which is tougher than it might seem , given the layers of abstraction/virtualization involved in the chain of ownership &amp; custody , complicated in particular by " rehypothecation " involved in stock borrowing/lending for short sales ... especially since stock borrow/lending record-keeping tends to be somewhat slipshod ( cf. periodic uproar about " naked shorting " and " failure to deliver " ) . Second , the seller has to determine what exactly it is that they have sold ... which , again , can be tougher than it might seem . You see , stocks are subject to all kinds of corporate actions ( e.g. cash distributions , spin-offs , splits , liquidations , delistings ... ) A particular topic of keen interest is who exactly is entitled to large cash distributions - the buyer or the seller ? Depending on the cutoff date ( the " ex-dividend date " ) , the seller may need to deliver to the buyer just the shares of stock , or the shares plus a big chunk of cash - a significant difference in settlement . Determining the precise ex-dividend date ( and so what exactly are the assets to be settled ) can sometimes be very difficult ... it 's usually T-2 , except in the case of large distributions , which are usually T +1 , unless the regulatory authority has neglected to declare an ex-dividend date , in which case it defaults to standard DTC payment policy ( i.e. T-2 ) ... I 've been involved in a few situations where the brokers involved were clueless , and full settlement of " due bills " for cash distributions to the buyer took several months of hard arguing . So yeah , the brokers want a little time to get their records in order and settle the trade correctly .
A junk bond is , broadly , a bond with a non-negligible risk of default . ( " Bond " ought to be defined elsewhere , but broadly it 's a financial instrument you buy from a company or government , where they promise to pay you back the principal and some interest over time , on a particular schedule . ) The name " junk " is a bit exaggerated : many of them are issued by respectable and reasonably stable businesses . junk bonds were required to do large leveraged buyouts . This means : the company issued fairly risky , fairly high-yield debt , to buy out equity holders . They have to pay a high rate on the debt because the company 's now fairly highly geared ( ie has a lot of debt relative to its value ) and it may have to pay out a large fraction of its earnings as interest . What is a junk bond and how does it differ from a regular bond ? It 's only a matter of degree and nomenclature . A bond that has a <URL> below a particular level ( eg S&amp;P BBB - ) is called junk , or more politely " non-investment grade " or " speculative " . It 's possible for an existing bond to be reclassified from one side to another , or for a single issuer to have different series some of which are more risky than others . The higher the perceived risk , the more interest the bond must pay offer in order to attract lenders . Why is there higher risk/chance of default ? Well , why would a company be considered at higher risk of failing to repay its debt ? Basically it comes down to doubt about the company 's future earnings being sufficient to repay its debt , which could be for example : The company 's revenue is declining There is a legal or regulatory risk The company is highly geared and repayments consume a great deal of its earnings
It could be a a way to preserve the value of your money , but depends upon various factors . If a country defaults , and it leads to hyper-inflation , by definition that means that money loses its purchasing power . In even simpler terms , it can not buy as much tomorrow as I could today . Therefore people can be incented to either hoard physical goods , or other non-perishable items . Real-estate may well be such an item . If you are resident in the country , you have to live somewhere . It is possible that a landlord might try to raise rent beyond what your job is willing to pay . Of course , in a house , you might have a similar situation with utilities like electricity ... Assuming some kind of re-stabilization of the economy and currency , even with several more zeros on the end , it is conceivable that the house would subsequently sell for an appropriately inflation adjusted amount , as other in-demand physical goods may . Lots of variables . Good Luck .
You are basically buying a reserved room at a resort of some sort for a particular time slot each year . You 'll pay some money up front to " buy " it , plus a yearly maintenance fee . You can then use that spot for your vacation each year or trade it with other people who own timeshares to get a vacation at their place . I ca n't really think of any situation in which a timeshare would be appropriate for anyone . If you really wanted one , there are plenty of people willing to give them away for free just to get out from underneath the maintenance fees . To me , that means they are worth less than nothing .
Obviously you know your own circumstances , but it would be considered normal for a company to pay relocation expenses for someone they hire . Unless they have explicitly said no already you should at least ask . Even if they have said no , they might make you a loan to cover your expenses , at a low or even zero interest rate , to be paid back out of your salary . If they absolutely say no again , then go with the other options mentioned here .
A credit default swap is an insurance contract . It is not a tradeable asset . The premium leg consists of those contracted premium payments that are made to the CDS issuer . If by trading this leg separately you mean selling the right to pay premiums , then obviously no-one is going to buy the right to make premium payments without the right to make a claim in the case of a default . Why would anyone pay to make future payments with no benefits ? The default leg consists of the contracted benefits the holder of the CDS will receive in the case of a default . While the issuer of the CDS may be able to offload some of their risk of a claim through a re-insurance transaction , this is not an option for the CDS holder . The idea of the holder of a CDS selling their right to receive payment in the case of a default is a non-starter since there would be no profit to be made , only the additional expense of entering into a legal contract with a third party . The holder of the CDS is legally obliged to pay the premiums and legally entitled to the associated benefits . On top of this , there would be the legal and administrative costs of trading . So the answer to your question is " no " . There is currently no such market , and unlike the " stripped bonds " market , there is no conceivable circumstance under which such a market would be feasible .
A Samurai Bond is issued in Japan , in Yen , by a non-Japanese company , basically to distinguish between it from regular Japanese bonds . The <URL> has good details on this and many other topics . There are similarly funny names for many other bond types , issued by foreign companies ; and <URL> has a listing . Bulldog , Maple and Yankee are three common ones .
As Michael Pryor answered , a bond fund is a mutual fund that invests in bonds . I 'd also consider an ETF based on bonds to be a bond fund , but I 'm not sure that all investors would consider these as " bond funds " . Not all bond funds are the same -- just like stock funds . You can classify bond funds based on the issuer of the bonds : Government bond funds ( as described in the U.S. ) invest primarily in bonds issued by the U.S. Federal Government . These may be tax advantaged . Municipal bond funds ( aka " Munis " ) invest primarily in bonds issued by municipalities ( cities , counties ? ) . These may be tax advantaged . Corporate bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations . There are different " grades " of corporate bonds , based on the <URL> applied to the companies by ratings agencies like Moody 's or Fitch . An " AAA " fund would invest primarily in bonds issued by highly rated companies . High yield bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations with low ratings . ( These bonds are also called " junk bonds " . ) These bonds typically have a higher yield ( i.e. they pay a higher interest rate ) , but they also have a higher risk of default ( i.e. the issuer goes bankrupt and does n't pay back the principal ) . You may also find bond funds based on debt issued by foreign governments , I 'm not familiar with these . " Blended " funds are very common -- these would invest in two or more of the categories above . You can also classify funds based on the time to maturity : Short term bonds will mature in less than a year . You might also find " ultra short " or other descriptions . All else equal , shorter times to maturity mean a higher likelihood of repayment and less interest rate risk . Medium term bonds will mature in more time . There 's a correspondingly higher risk of default and adverse affects from interest rate changes . Long term bonds will mature in ten or more years . These are the most exposed to interest rate fluctuations . Except for funds that focus on a certain maturity , most funds will spread the maturities out to spread the risk out . In general , bond funds have lower risk and lower expected return than stock funds . Sometimes bond funds have price movements that are not tightly correlated to the price movements in the equity markets . This can make them a decent hedge against declines in your equity investments . See Michal Pryor 's answer for some info on how you can get tax free treatment for your bond fund investments .
None of what you mentioned is part of your credit report , unless you close an account that was overdrawn and has been referred by the bank for collections . In the U.S. , your banking history is maintained by several companies , the largest of which is ChexSystems . When you open a new account , the bank will request your history from one of these firms and , just like with credit reports , if you have adverse banking history ( which often includes information about bounced checks ) then the bank may not be willing to open the account .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
Yes , cancelling the credit card can affect your credit history negatively , if it was your oldest credit card . The length of time you 've been using credit is one metric that is used to calculate your credit score . I agree with Alexey - keep it if there 's no annual fee .
You can not carry a balance on a charge card ; the total balance is due as the payment each period . I guess some government use charge cards . There is no interest to be paid on them , so it is cheaper , but the credit companies still make some money on transaction fees . <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How much of each stock do index funds hold ?
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
<URL> would be a study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and University of Minnesota if you want a source for some data . Abstract This study examines common stock prices around ex-dividend dates . Such price data usually contain a mixture of observations - some with and some without arbitrageurs and/or dividend capturers active . Our theory predicts such mixing will result in a nonlinear relation between percentage price drop and dividend yield - not the commonly assumed linear relation . This prediction and another important prediction of theory are supported empirically . In a variety of tests , marginal price drop is not significantly different from the dividend amount . Thus , over the last several decades , one-for-one marginal price drop have been an excellent ( average ) rule of thumb .
Yes , they can - my wife and I have done that for a few years now . You may need to talk with your lender to ensure any extra payments go first to the principle of the higher-rate loan ( though with many of them this is the standard way that they handle it ) .
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
There is a thing called the consumer price index ( CPI ) There is a basket of goods that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It is much more detailed for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line is they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that gives you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . <URL> But it is n't without its faults , people bicker about the methodology and what constitutes the index . <URL>
I think you 're on the right track with that strategy . If you want to learn more about this strategy , I 'd recommend " The Intelligent Asset Allocator " by William Bernstein . As for the ber -- Tuber portfolio you linked to , my only concern would be that it is diversified in everything except for the short-term bond component , which is 40 % . It might be worth looking at some portfolios that have more than one bond allocation -- possibly diversifying more across corporate vs government , and intermediate vs short term . Even the Cheapskate 's portfolio located immediately above the ber -- Tuber has 20 % Corporate and 20 % Government . Also note that they mention : Because it includes so many funds , it would be expensive and unwieldy for an account less than $ 100,000 . Regarding your question about the disadvantages of an index-fund-based asset allocation strategy : It requires discipline to execute . If you let your actual allocation stray too far from the target allocation , you do n't get all of the advantages of diversification . If you select the wrong allocation you can end up with poor performance . As a rough general rule , the more poorly correlated assets you assemble into your portfolio , the lower risk you can expect for a given expected return . Discipline again : if one of your assets takes a dive and you panic , sell , and let the money sit in cash , then you lose out on gains when that asset recovers in price . It takes experience and discipline to be able to buy stocks during times like November 2008 or October 2001 .
See the FTSE Volatility Index . You can see the current index on the Bloomberg site ( just one place of many to read it ) : <URL> You can find background info on what brought the index about , and how to read it , here : <URL> FTA : " Market participants consider volatility indices to work like a barometer ; a high value translates to a greater degree of underlying index turbulence ; a low value is consistent with greater stability . "
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
Read <URL> . The VIX is an index and ca n't be traded directly . Similar to the fact that you ca n't really buy the S&amp;P index , you either try to replicate it yourself , or buy an ETF . The VIX ETFs , per this article , do n't correlate 100 % to the VIX itself . Not to be snarky , but specific to your question " how this index is best used by an individual , average investor " the answer is " it 's not . " The idea that you can buy and sell such a derivative with an eye toward hedging your average portfolio is pretty ambitious and would probably cost you in the end while not providing the insurance you believe you are getting . If you have a sufficiently large portfolio , broad market Put options would get you what you seek , but still , at a cost . The truly average investor needs to use asset allocation as a means to tune their overall risk , long term .
There are lots of opinions on the meaning of different credit scores . Each lender can ultimately choose whatever cutoff they want for their products . Creditscoring.com has a fascinating page that they call <URL> . It is a series of quotes from different credit reporting agencies , news outlets , and lenders about what different scores mean . The quotes are sorted by score , and it is interesting to see the different opinions about what is considered an excellent score , what is considered average , and what is a poor score . Looking at the list , you can find quotes on the bottom cutoff for excellent scores anywhere from 760 down to 620 . Similarly , the opinion on the top cutoff for a poor score ranges from 650 all the way down to 580 . There is no consensus . I know when I was looking for a new credit card a year ago , most credit card sites had you select a range of credit card scores so that you would know which cards you might be eligible for . I think when I looked at CapitalOne 's website last year , they described excellent credit as a score of 720 + , eligible for every one of the credit cards they offer . Looking at their website now , they do n't even list ranges of scores anymore . They simply describe excellent credit as this : " I have never declared bankruptcy or defaulted on a loan . I have not been more than 60 days late on any credit card , medical bill , or loan in the last year . - AND - I have had a loan or credit card for 3 years or more with a credit limit above $ 5,000 . " When I wrote the " no difference between 750 and 850 " answer , I had this 720 + score in mind . Once you get in that range , you are n't going to be turned down for any loan because of your score . ( You might get turned down for something because of a lack of income , but that is different . ) Remember , financial institutions do not want to reject people for loans . Loans are how they make money . If they had a loan product that required a score of 820 , there would not be a large market of people eligible for it .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
I wrote a <URL> ( < < it may not be obvious - this is a link to pull down the spreadsheet ) a while back that might help you . You can start by putting your current salary next to your age , adjust the percent of income saved ( 14 % for you ) and put in the current total . The sheet basically shows that if one saves 15 % from day one of working and averages an 8 % return , they are on track to save over 20X their final income , and at the 4 % withdrawal rate , will replace 80 % of their income . ( Remember , if they save 15 % and at retirement the 7.65 % FICA / medicare goes away , so it 's 100 % of what they had anyway . ) For what it 's worth , a 10 % average return drops what you need to save down to 9 % . I say to a young person - try to start at 15 % . Better that when you 're 40 , you realize you 're well ahead of schedule and can relax a bit , than to assume that 8-9 % is enough to save and find you need a large increase to catch up . To answer specifically here - there are those who concluded that 4 % is a safe withdrawal rate , so by targeting 20X your final income as retirement savings , you 'll be able to retire well . Retirement spending needs are not the same for everyone . When I cite an 80 % replacement rate , it 's a guess , a rule of thumb that many point out is flawed . The ' real ' number is your true spending need , which of course can be far higher or lower . The younger investor is going to have a far tougher time guessing this number than someone a decade away from retiring . The 80 % is just a target to get started , it should shift to the real number in your 40s or 50s as that number becomes clear . Next , I see my original answer did n't address Social Security benefits . The benefit is n't linear , a lower wage earner can see a benefit of as much as 50 % of what they earned each year while a very high earner would see far less as the benefit has a maximum . A $ 90k earner will see 30 % or less . The social security site does a great job of giving you your projected benefit , and you can adjust target savings accordingly . 2016 update - the prior 20 years returned 8.18 % CAGR . Considering there were 2 crashes one of which was called a mini-depression , 8.18 % is pretty remarkable . For what it 's worth , my adult investing life started in 1984 , and I 've seen a CAGR of 10.90 % . For forecasting purposes , I think 8 % long term is a conservative number . To answer member " doobop " comment - the 10 years from 2006-2015 had a CAGR of 7.29 % . Time has a way of averaging that lost decade , the 00 's , to a more reasonable number .
This question is exchange specific . See below . There typically is a broker-dark order , which emulates a real undisclosed order , in your case you would submit a limit order to the IBDARK exchange . The broker then monitors the market for you and only if the limit price is touched submits a market order to the real exchange . See <URL> . On the exchange side of things , many exchanges ( e.g. all of CME Group 's ) allow you to specify the optional Display Instruction component in your order ( FIX 4.4 ) . Along with the true quantity of the order ( ) , you can set what gets displayed in the books ( ) , or when ( ) , or even if the order should show up at all ( ) . See <URL> . Compliant exchanges ( i.e. the ones that accept all parameters in the Display Instruction component ) will record your full order , that means the matching engine will consider you wholy , but only broadcast what you specified in the market data feeds ( or nothing at all in the case of an undisclosed order ) . Re your liquidity concerns : The active side will use but not see your added liquidity , e.g. if you 're hidden inside the spread and there 's an active side it will be filled above the visible bid or below the visible offer . This is good for them ( better deal ) and good for the apparent ( visible ) liquidity because it remains untouched . Note also that in markets with designated market makers and support for display instructions the DMM might see your full order regardless . This is to disclose scalping activities or illegal market making .
Lots of ecommerce stores will do the calculation for you based on real rates from the major shippers in the United States . I used to write such shopping carts , and we did exactly like you are asking , take the individual weights , times the number of items , packed into X number of boxes and sent that information to UPS , FedEx , USPS and for a while DHL and Canada Post . They then used the store owner 's account number to return a set of rates based on the shipping services available ( for example , you ca n't ship ground to Hawaii from California ) If you do n't have real time shipping available in your shopping cart , <URL> as your max , then take a bit off . You make money on things that are close to you and lose money on things far away , and hopefully it comes out in the wash . Finally , as a method of selling , incorporate the shipping cost into the price of your item and offer Free Shipping as a way to increase traffic to your site . It seems to be a popular technique .
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
You can engage in a pair trade that involves analyzing how closely percentage wise these stocks trade tick for tick . You can bet on the ratio expanding or contracting . only slightly more information here , but maybe explained more intuitively : <URL> and here is an example : <URL>
The psychology of investing is fascinating . I buy a stock that 's out of favor at $ 10 , and sell half at a 400 % profit , $ 50/share . Then another half at $ 100 , figuring you do n't ever lose taking a profit . Now my Apple shares are over $ 500 , but I only have 100 . The $ 10 purchase was risky as Apple pre-iPod was n't a company that was guaranteed to survive . The only intelligent advice I can offer is to look at your holdings frequently , and ask , " would I buy this stock today given its fundamentals and price ? " If you would n't buy it , you should n't hold it . ( This is in contrast to the company ratings you see of buy , hold , sell . If I should hold it , but you should n't buy it to hold , that makes no sense to me . ) Disclaimer - I am old and have decided stock picking is tough . Most of our retirement accounts are indexed to the S&amp;P . Maybe 10 % is in individual stocks . The amount my stocks lag the index is less than my friends spend going to Vegas , so I 'm happy with the results . Most people would be far better off indexing than picking stocks .
who computes the S&amp;P 500 ? <URL> . Why are they sharing this information and Because that 's what they do . This is a financial research company . how do they recuperate the costs inherent in computing the S&amp;P 500 ? By charging clients for other information . The computing of the index itself is not all that complicated , its coming up with the index that 's a problem . Once they 've come up with the formula , and it became widely accepted , the computation itself is not an issue . But the fact that its so popular leads to the S&amp;P brand recognition , and people come and pay good money for their other services ( ratings and financial analysis of securities ) . They do more work for free . For example , the ratings of various government debts are being done by S&amp;P for free ( governments do n't pay for that ) , while private bonds are rated for a fee ( corporations pay to have their bonds rated ) . Also , as noted by JBKing , there are probably some licensing fees for using the index name in the fund name ( and other users are probably paying the licensing fee , like the news agencies and the exchanges ) . <URL> , and as such can not be used without the owner 's permission . Why is then " active management " not required for indexed funds Because no research and stock picking is required . In fact , these funds do n't really require a manager , they can be managed by a simple script . and how does it lower taxes ? ( perhaps this could be a different question if this has become too broad ) Actively managed funds perform a lot more buy/sell operations , each leading to tax consequences to the fund ( which rolls them over to the investors ) . Index funds only buy and sell to re-balance back to the index ( or when the makeup of the index changes , usually once a year or half a year ) , leading to much lesser realized capital gains to the fund , thus much lesser tax consequences .
end question
start question
Am I formally insured during the COBRA election period if I ultimately choose not to elect coverage ?
COBRA can be enacted retroactively . You have 60 days to elect coverage , so you can wait until it 's needed to enact it , but you will have to pay for the retro-active coverage . I did the same thing when I changed jobs last year and it saved me a ton rather than electing it right off the bat . From <URL> : Qualified beneficiaries must notify the plan administer of their election according to the instructions laid out in the election notice . Qualified beneficiaries must be given an election period of at least 60 days during which each qualified beneficiary may choose whether to elect COBRA coverage . This period is measured from the later of the date of the qualifying event or the date the COBRA election notice is provided . COBRA coverage is retroactive if elected and paid for by the qualified beneficiary . You can go up to 3 months before an ACA penalty might be assessed . I 'll try and find the specific wording about that . Definitely not something to worry about at this stage . <URL> . Does COBRA count as qualifying health coverage ( or " minimum essential coverage " ) ? Yes . This means if you have COBRA coverage you do n't have to pay the fee that people without coverage must pay . Update : Here 's the <URL> and ACA penalties : What qualifies as a short coverage gap ? In general , a gap in coverage that lasts less than three months qualifies as a short coverage gap . If you have more than one short coverage gap during a year , the short coverage gap exemption only applies to the first gap.If you have a coverage gap of 3 months or more , you are not exempt for any of those months .
I assume you are filing US taxes because you are a US citizen , resident alien , or other " US person " . If you have a total of $ 10,000 or more in assets in non-US accounts , you are required to file FinCEN Form 114 , Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts , also known as FBAR , to report those accounts . See <URL> . Note this refers to the total balance in the account ( combined with any other accounts you may have ) ; the amount you transferred this year is not relevant . Also note that the FBAR is filed separately from your income tax return ( it does not go to the IRS ) , though if you have over $ 50,000 in offshore assets you may also have to file IRS Form 8938 . Simply reporting those accounts does not necessarily mean you will owe extra taxes . Most US taxes are based on income , not assets . According to the page linked , the maximum penalty for a " willful " failure to report such accounts is a fine of $ 100,000 or 50 % of the assets in question , whichever is greater , in addition to possible criminal sanctions . There may be other US filing requirements that I do n't know about , so you may want to consult a tax professional . I do not know anything about your filing requirements under Indian law .
According to the state of New York , you may be eligible for unemployment . <URL> Unless excluded by law , all services an employee performs for a liable employer is covered . This applies whether it is : Part-time Full-time Temporary Seasonal Casual Employees may perform services : On or off the employer 's premises In their own homes But what 's " excluded by law " ? Excluded employment : The services of certain employees are not covered under the Unemployment Insurance ( UI ) Law . Their earnings are not subject to contribution . They are not entitled to UI benefits based on such services . You 'll need to view the full list to see if you are supposed to be covered or excluded , based upon the sector of your employment . But generally , most people are covered . Note that , at least in the state of New York , even part time , tempory , or seasonal/casual workers are covered by unemployment . If you are not clearly excluded , then it is absolutely likely to be worth your time to file for unemployment , you can be done online at <URL> . Note that you are expected to do this " promptly " ( ideally in the first week you are informed you are laid off ) , and there is a minimum week " waiting period " before you receive any money at all . However , so long as you are honest and provide the paperwork they request , the worst they can do is tell you that you are n't eligible , and you 've just lost a little time . In closing , please remember that unemployment benefits are insurance - if you are eligible both you and your employer have been paying money into the system . This is not some kind of welfare or charity - it is insurance you have been paying into for years ( if you have been - otherwise you are n't eligible at all ) , and you should not hesitate to make a claim when you are able to do so . Oh , and to answer your final question - yes , if you get a new job or are hired back you will just notify the unemployment service and they will discontinue paying you based on their timing policy ( it might be after your first day of new work , or some period after that - laws vary , so check with the Department of Labor to be sure so you can plan your finances accordingly ) . Good luck on the application and your job hunt !
Select the calendar year unless there is a good reason to choose another year end , for example , if your business is really busy at that time of year and you wo n't have time to do your books .
You paid the expense when you put it on the credit card in 2015 . The fact that you did n't pay the credit card until 2016 does n't change that .
Great , your friend is well-off , and simply wants to have you hold the mortgage in your name . Here are a few of the problems/risks that I can think of : Since you have good credit , how/why does this help your credit ? Does your friend want joint title ? Does your friend want you to have life insurance on the mortgage held with joint title ? Should the real-estate market fail and the property lose value , your friend could bail , and you would be left paying for a property you can not sell . Can you pay the mortgage if your friend can not , or will not ? Are you willing to own this house if the deal goes bad ? Will your friend obtain your SSN ( or equivalent ) ? Whose name is the property title to ? Can you sell unilaterally should problems arise ? Who puts down money for purchase , and repairs ? Who makes the payments ? What if your friend forgets , or can not pay payment ( cash flow problems ) ? Will your friend deposit N payments in advance to ensure payments are timely ? Does friend provide funds for down-payment , reserve funds for rehab ? What is your extraction plan if you get stuck with a lemon ? A truck hits your friend ( death , illness ) , how do you complete the rehab and sale ? A truck hits you ( death/illness ) , how does your friend complete the rehab and sale ? Do you trust him/her ? Does he/she trust you ? Could the IRS consider this tax evasion ? Could the authorities consider this money laundering ? Could the authorities consider this bank fraud ? One strategy to make outsized returns on your investments is to use leverage . Leverage is to use OPM ( Other People 's Money ) to expand the amount of assets you can purchase . Perhaps you invest 10 % of your money , and borrow 90 % . When the asset increases in price by 10 % , you have doubled your money . Here is a specific example . You invest $ 20K to buy a $ 200K property ( invest 10 % , borrow 90 % ) , and sell the asset later for $ 250K , but you pay $ 10K for the use of the 90 % . The asset made $ 50K , a 25 % gain . But you made $ 40K on your $ 20K investment , a 200 % gain on your original investment ! Awesome ! But the other $ 180K only returned $ 10K , about 4.5 % . So you earned 200 % and the other party earned less than 5 % on a deal that was worth 25 % total gain . Suppose this is the deal your friend offers . You are at risk for the 90 % , and he is at risk for the 10 % , but your friend is offering you the 5 % gain to his 200 % gain . Your friend is screwing you royally . What you are missing is that you are providing most of the money for the deal . You are borrowing the money , but you are still agreeing to repay the debt , so you are providing the majority of the money , the OPM , the leverage . You are carrying the majority of the risk . And you are gaining the minority of the reward . Think of it this way - what if you were not getting a mortgage , but investing your own cash - would you be happy with the small part of the return ? The funny/sad part is that your friend does realize he is using you for leverage , but does not even consider how lopsided the deal , and that he is taking advantage of you . Fix the deal : You provide 90 % of the purchase , your friend provides 10 % , you sell and pay costs out of the proceeds . You get 90 % of the return , your friend gets 10 % . But the deal does n't happen . Because then your friend does not get the leverage , and rather than 200 % , must settle for 25 % . And really , your exposure is much less than the entire mortgage . Pragmatically , you are only risking about 20-30 % of the mortgage , so you should get about 2/3 to 3/4 of the gains , while your friend gets 1/3 to 1/4 , and probably only gets about a 100 % to 130 % return on his investment .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
If possible and if it applies - try to end your employment on thie first or second day of the month - typically your employer will cover the whole month so you get " free " coverage for those days . One gotcha for me when I needed coverage was I ended my employment at the end of the month and the cobra paperwork was not done when I needed healthcare shortly thereafter . What a hassle that was ... Make sure you pay the premiums on time . Do n't be afraid to call the employer and the plan administrator . Expect that you are going to have to do legwork if you actually use the coverage .
The money is paid to investors who bought those mortgage backed securities . The company that services those loans is responsible for making sure the money is paid to the right investors
zPesk has a great answer about dividends generally , but to answer your question specifically about yield traps , here are a few things that I look for : As with everything , if it looks too good to be true , it probably is . A 17 % yield is pretty out of this world , even for a REIT . And I <URL> on it holding up . Compare a company 's yield to that of others in the same industry ( different industries have different " standards " for what is considered a high or low yield ) Dividends have to come from somewhere , and that somewhere is cash flow . Look at the company 's financial statements . Do they have sufficient cash flow to pay the dividend ? Have there been any recent changes in their cash flow situation ? How are earnings holding up ? Debt levels ? Cash on hand ? Sudden moves in stock price . A sudden drop in the stock price will cause the yield to rise . Sometimes this indicates a bargain , but if the drop is due to a real worry about the company 's financial health ( see # 2 ) it 's probably an indication that a dividend cut is coming . What does their dividend history look like ? Do they have a consistent track record of paying out good dividends for years and years ? Companies with a track record of paying dividends consistently and/or increasing their dividend regularly are likely to continue to do so .
A non-deductible IRA contribution gives you the same sort of benefit as a deductible contribution does , just less of it . In all cases , you are postponing paying taxes on some income until you withdraw it years later . This postponement : Postpones taxes on the income ( e.g. interest ) earned on your principle over the years . This is beneficial because of the following aspects . Provides income on the postponed taxes over those years . This interest income is income you would not have otherwise ever received . Allows the income to be taxed at your retirement tax bracket rather than the current tax bracket . This might be lower if your retirement income is lower and/or tax rates are lower , but might be higher if the opposite holds . ( Also , one gets no benefit from capital gains rates on IRA-generated income . ) Allows the postponed taxes to be paid in " cheaper " dollars if inflation has occurred over the years . The difference is that with a non-deductible IRA contribution one is not postponing a large chunk of current-year taxes , and so does not gain the above benefits on those taxes . One only gains on the taxes that are postponed on the income which accumulates inside the IRA . ( With a non-deductible contribution , one does not pay taxes on the contribution a second time when the contribution is withdrawn during retirement , if one keeps proper records . )
There is no " Married " filing status ; there are " Married Filing Jointly " and " Married Filing Separately " . As you are married as of the end of 2016 , you may only file 2016 taxes as Married Filing Jointly or Married Filing Separately ( or in certain situations if you have a dependent , you might be able to choose Head of Household ) , and can not file as Single . You are a resident alien for 2016 , as you pass the green card test . I will assume that your wife has n't been to the US much , so she is a nonresident alien for 2016 , because she does not pass the green card test or the substantial presence test . In this case , there are basically two ways the two of you can do it : File as Married Filing Separately . This basically means you file as Married Filing Separately and she almost certainly does not have to file as nonresident aliens are only taxed on income connected to the US , and I 'm assuming that she does n't have any . Note that the tax calculated for Married Filing Separately is almost always worse than for Married Filing Jointly , especially if the two people 's incomes are very different . File as Married Filing Jointly . Since one of you is a resident alien and the other is a nonresident alien , this will involve using the <URL> election . Your wife will be treated as a resident alien for all of 2016 . As a resident alien , her worldwide income is subject to US tax , and will need to be reported on the tax return , but she should be able to use the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion to exclude the first about $ 100k of her foreign earned income , since she was outside the US for virtually all of the year . If she does n't already have a Social Security Number , she will have to apply for an ITIN together with filing of the tax return . Note that you could also file separately at first , and then ( within 3 years ) amend the tax return to file jointly when it is more convenient ( e.g. after she gets a Social Security Number , so she wo n't have to go through the hassle of applying for an ITIN while abroad ) .
This is a question I asked myself while considering an HSA , and I could n't find any answers , so now that I have one , <URL> . I asked a family-friend/investment-banker about it , and he suggested you could only make distributions when on an eligible HDHP , but was n't completely sure . I was about to post the question here to confirm or contradict his statement when I ran across <URL> referenced in another SE question . In it , I found this statement under the ' Distributions From an HSA ' heading : If you are no longer an eligible individual , you can still receive tax-free distributions to pay or reimburse your qualified medical expenses . Which indicates that you can still make qualified , tax-free distributions even when you are no longer eligible to contribute . ( Unless someone else has evidence to the contrary )
Aside from the fear that you or a loved one will spend it frivolously , I 'm hard pressed to come up with another reason . If you 'll owe money in the next tax year , you have the rest of the year to adjust your withholdings and/or make quarterly payments . As both my fellow PFers state , you 're better off getting your money back . Better still , use it to pay off a high interest debt .
Choose the address based on where you currently live ( where you are mailing the tax return from . ) You can find the <URL> . Just choose the state you live in , and the website will give you the correct mailing address . If you get it wrong , I do n't think it matters a whole lot , except perhaps to delay things a little bit . They just assign different addresses to different states to try to divide up the returns among the various offices evenly .
I doubt that it would withstand examination . I would also mention that if the nature of your work does not change after a month , the fact that you 're paid as contractor does n't make you any less employee during that period . What you can do is report ( some of ) these expenses as unreimbursed employee expenses , and they will be deductible based on the AGI limitation , as misc . deductions on your schedule A.
I assume you are talking about the " Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet " . Form 1040-ES itself does n't have a line 1a . Everything on this worksheet should be figures for the entire year . At the very end ( line 17 on the " Estimated Tax Worksheet " ) you will divide by 4 to get your estimated tax payment for each quarter .
They should send you the new card about 30-60 days before the expiration . I 've never heard of a case where you actually need to ask for it to happen , it should be done automatically . The card expiration is a security feature , it 's not the end of the contract between you and the credit card company where they " need to think about it " whether to send you a new one . Check if the original card was lost ( or worse - stolen ) while en route .
Vested shares belong to you . Their value was recognized as your salary when they vested , and from that point on these are just shares that you own .
The bank should have sent you an official tax document with the amount of interest you paid in 2015 listed . You may be able to also download this document from the bank 's website . My own form is a third of a page printout out , so you may not think much of it when you first get that document . If your taxes were paid into escrow and then paid by the bank , the firm will also have those taxes listed on it . From your description it sounds like you paid your taxes directly . In that case your canceled checks / bank statements should suffice .
end question
start question
Where to save money in preparation of buying second house ?
Couple of factors here to consider : 1 ) The savings vehicle 2 ) The investments Savings Vehicle : Roth IRAs allow you the flexibility to save for retirement and/or your house . Each person can save up to $ 5,500 in a Roth and you can withdraw your principal at anytime without penalty . ( There is a special clause for first time home buyers ; however , it limits the amount to $ 10k per person . Given your estimate of $ 750k and history of putting down 20 % . It would require a bit more . ) The only thing is that you ca n't touch the growth or interest . When you do max out your Roth IRA , it may make sense for you to open a brokerage account ( 401Ks often have multiple steps in order to convert or withdraw money for your down payment ) Investments : Given your timeline ( 5-7 years ) your investments would be more conservative . ( More fixed income ) While you should stay diversified ( both fixed income and equity ) , the conservative portfolio will allow less fluctuation in your portfolio value while allowing some growth potential .
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
$ 50k is a big unsecured loan -- not sure where you 'll find someone willing to do that . I 'd say your best bet is to start paying down the smallest accounts , regardless of rate , to free up cash flow . Having paid off credit lines will help you maintain an ok debt to credit line ratio . As far as consolidation loans , I would try to find a lender that will let you swap high interest loans with lower interest loans in the 9-14 % range , my guess is that you 'll get no more than $ 10k . You 'll probably want to start talking to local credit unions and small banks and find out what products they have to help you . It 's critical to stay current with all accounts , as things will spiral out of control once you default -- the other banks will start cutting your credit lines and hitting you with overlimit fees and interest rate hikes .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
There are two sets of tax implications : ongoing yearly taxes , and tax when you sell . On an ongoing basis , I 'm assuming that your city , county , and/or state will extract property tax payment ( s ) from you on the additional property . According <URL> , this payment would be deductible : Deductible real estate taxes are generally any state , local , or foreign taxes on real property . ( But the deductibility is only going to matter if you are itemizing deductions . If you are n't , it 's just another expense . ) The second set of tax implications come when you decide to sell the lot : There will be ( federal ) capital gains tax associated with this , since it is not your primary residence . ( You could try to merge the lot with yours to avoid this tax , but I have no idea how this works in your area or if it would even be worth it in the end -- seems like there would be some other trade-offs . ) You may also have local capital gains taxes . Your locality may have a real estate transfer tax .
Chris Rea 's comment captures it -- most people do n't have working crystal balls . Unless you are a trader , you address risk with diversification . There are several questions on this site discussing strategies to diversify your portfolio . In many ways , the markets offer investors false choices . We have an emotional desire to react to stimuli -- but that often leads to lousy outcomes . For example , selling your NASDAQ 100 fund after its value falls is usually a bad idea .
Typical costs to buy might include : 1000 or so in financing costs ( including title fees etc. ) couple hundred for inspection any moving costs probably some repairs and new furniture after moving in One piece of advice if you 've never bought , fixing problems with a house always seems to cost more than the discount in price due to the problems . Say the house needs a 15K new kitchen it seems like it will be just 7K cheaper than a house with a good kitchen , that kind of thing . Careful with the fixer uppers . Costs to sell include : 3 % to seller 's agent and 3 % to buyer 's agent any repairs and landscaping you were putting off potentially staging or professional cleaning any repairs the buyer demands after inspection , that you agree to and of course you have the buying costs again for the replacement house Doing your own cleaning , repairs , moving , etc. can save a lot . You can also choose to work without an agent but I do n't know how wise it is , especially for a first time buyer . In my town there are some agents that are buyers only , never seller 's agents , which helps keep them unconflicted . Agent commissions may be lower in some areas or negotiable anywhere . Real estate transfer taxes may be owed by buyer or seller depending on location : <URL>
There 's a lot to consider when making the decision to buy a house . More so for a single person . Let 's start with that . Are you now in an area that you are committed to ? Or would you live anyplace ? You fall in love , and your partner has a job that has great opportunity , but in a different state . That move can cost you nearly 8 % of the home price . More if the price has fallen and you need to take the loss into account . That said , how does your current living expense compare with the expense of the home you 'd consider ? This is pretty localized . Some areas have rent that 's high compared to buying , other areas are just the opposite . I 've seen duplexes that after a downpayment would have a rent that basically buys the house for you and lets you live rent and mortgage free . If I were you , I 'd first fill in the blank , " I 'd really like a house instead of renting because _______ " If this leads you to look for a house , that 's fine . If you only answer that you always thought it was the next step in ones life at your age Or that it 's a good investment , I 'd reconsider .
For starters , that site shows the first 5 levels on each side of the book , which is actually quite a bit of information . When traders say the , they mean just the first level . So you 're already getting 8 extra levels . If you want all the details , you must subscribe to the exchange 's data feeds ( this costs thousands of dollars per month ) or open an account with a broker who offers that information . More important than depth , however , is update frequency . The BATS site appears to update every 5 seconds , which is nowhere near frequently enough to see what 's truly going on in the book . Depending on your use case , 2 levels on each side of the book updated every millisecond might be far more valuable than 20 levels on each side updated every second .
Without getting into whether you should invest in Gold or Not ... 1 . Where do I go and make this purchase . I would like to get the best possible price . If you are talking about Physical Gold then Banks , Leading Jewelry store in your city . Other options are buying Gold Mutual Fund or ETF from leading fund houses . 2 . How do I assure myself of quality . Is there some certificate of quality/purity ? This is mostly on trust . Generally Banks and leading Jewelry stores will not sell of inferior purity . There are certain branded stores that give you certificate of authenticity 3 . When I do choose to sell this commodity , when and where will I get the best cost ? If you are talking about selling physical gold , Jewelry store is the only place . Banks do not buy back the gold they sold you . Jewelry stores will buy back any gold , however note there is a buy price and sell price . So if you buy 10 g and sell it back immediately you will not get the same price . If you have purchased Mutual Funds / ETF you can sell in the market .
I 'm American but fortunately Google is internationally recognized . Here 's a link to <URL> . Some other terms that could possibly help you are the rent -- price ratio ( house price / annual rent ) and the House P/E ratio ( house price / ( rent  expenses ) ) . They 're discussed <URL> .
You 're halfway done with the debt elimination . Keep up the good work . The student loan debt will get in your way a couple of ways when you look to finance a house . First , your debt to income ratio will be higher than without the debt , so you 'll be able to qualify for a smaller loan with the debt than without . Second , you 'll have the student loan payments in addition to your mortgage . This may wear on you . I 'd look for ways to make extra money to knock out those student loan debts ASAP . The rates are n't horrible . That , and I think there is still some time before the housing market bottoms out , so you do n't need to rush into the house . If you can handle the entire debt load ( student loans + mortgage ) then if you save up for the down payment , that money is n't being used to pay down your student loans , and paying your students loans off wo n't get any easier when you get a mortgage on top of that .
Yes , you can pay for chiropractic and dental through an HSA . If you do this , you are essentially paying for these things with before-tax money . Your savings depend on which tax bracket you are in ; for example , if you are in the 15 % bracket , you will essentially save 15 % on these expenses by contributing the money into an HSA , and then paying out of that account , instead of paying directly with after-tax money . In order to be eligible to contribute to an HSA , you need to be enrolled in a High Deductible Health Plan ( HDHP ) . If you do n't know if your current health insurance plan is an HSA-eligible HDHP , you can ask your health insurance provider .
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in  220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " .  220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
On your end of the deal , the biggest risk is probably counterfeiting . That said , I 'd think that most of the downside would be for the buyer since they would have no way to prove that they paid you . Perhaps a better alternative is to send the items <URL> ( Collect On Delivery aka Cash on Delivery ) . The <URL> and some <URL> <URL> offer this service , which can be an effective way to remotely negotiate a cash sale . I double checked the USPS site and they do accept cash for COD deliveries : Recipient may pay by cash or check ( or money order ) made out to sender . ( Sender may not specify payment method . ) You might want to double check this if you go with USPS or FedX .
Just before a crash or at the start of the crash most of the smart money would have gotten out , the remaining technical traders would be out by the time the market has dropped 10 to 15 % , and some of them would be shorting their positions by now . Most long-term buy and hold investors would stick to their guns and stay in for the long haul . Some will start to get nervous and have sleepless nights when the markets have fallen 30 % + and look to get out as well . Others stay in until they can not stand it anymore . And some will stick it out throughout the downturn . So who are the buyers at this stage ? Some are the so called bargain hunters that buy when the market has fallen over 30 % ( only to sell again when it falls another 20 % ) , or maybe buy more ( because they think they are dollar cost averaging and will make a packet when the price goes back up - if and when it does ) . Some are those with stops covering their short positions , whilst others may be fund managers and individuals looking to rebalance their portfolios . What you have to remember during both an uptrend and a downtrend the price does not move straight up or straight down . If we take the downtrend for instance , it will have lower lows and lower highs ( that is the definition of a downtrend ) . See the chart below of the S&amp;P 500 during the GFC falls . As you can see just before it really started falling in Jan 08 there was ample opportunity for the smart money and the technical traders to get out of the market as the price drops below the 200 MA and it fails to make a higher peak . As the price falls from Jan 08 to Mar 08 you suddenly start getting some movement upwards . This is the bargain hunters who come into the market thinking the price is a bargain compared to 3 months ago , so they start buying and pushing the price up somewhat for a couple of months before it starts falling again . The reason it falls again is because the people who wanted to sell at the start of the year missed the boat , so are taking the opportunity to sell now that the prices have increased a bit . So you get this battle between the buyers ( bulls ) and seller ( bears ) , and of course the bears are winning during this downtrend . That is why you see more sharper falls between Aug to Oct 08 , and it continues until the lows of Mar 09 . In short it has got to do with the phycology of the markets and how people 's emotions can make them buy and/or sell at the wrong times .
The best thing you can do is shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shopping . I had been with GEICO for years and recently discovered ( while shopping for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offered the same coverage for a few hundred dollars less . When I called GEICO to cancel , they offered me an additional discount ( for being a member of a credit union ) that I had n't received before . I still switched , but was sad that I had n't been getting that extra discount just because I never asked if there were other discounts I might qualify for . This <URL> by ChristianPF talks about some changes you can make to reduce auto insurance costs .
If the IRS changes your return in any way ( including math errors ) - they send a letter explaining the change and the reasons for it . You should read that letter , it will answer your question ( <URL> ) . If you did n't receive it - you can call them and ask to resend it ( they 're unlikely to answer over the phone , but you can try asking ) . I 'm confused by your using the word " estimate " . Your tax return is not supposed to be estimate , it supposed to be precise . Why are you considering your tax return " estimate " ? If your filed tax return shows refund of $ X and you received $ X + $ 180 - then as I said , a letter of explanation from the IRS is due . If you do n't know what the refund amount on your return is and you 're trying to " estimate " it now - you better get a copy of that return .
I 've never heard of portable mortgages in the US . If you ca n't afford two mortgages , you will have to sell the first house to pay off its mortgage before you can buy the 2nd house . This is done all the time in the US . You can put your current house on the market ( advertise it for sale ) then arrange for a long closing while you arrange to buy a new house . Also , you can make an offer on a new house and include a contingency clause that you must sell your current house first . Good escrow companies are very good at managing cascading transactions like this .
<URL> have a limit of $ 10K maximum load , as an example . You can not load more than $ 950 per transaction or per 24 hours , i.e. : You need to spend more than 10 days loading it to reach the limit .
end question
start question
Investment Options for 14-year old ?
As you are 14 , you can not legally buy premium bonds yourself . Your parents could buy them and hold them for you , mind you . That said , I 'm not a fan of premium bonds . They are a rather weird combination of a savings account and a lottery . Most likely , you 'll receive far less than the standard interest rate you 'd get from a savings account . Sure , they may pay off , but they probably wo n't . What I would suggest , given that you expect to need the money in five years , is simply place it in a savings account . Shop around for the best interest rate you can find . <URL> lists interest rates , though you 'll want to confirm that it is up to date . There are other investment options . You could invest in a mutual fund which tracks the stock market or the bond market , for example . On average , that 'll give you a higher rate of return . But there 's more risk , and as you want the money in five years , I 'd be uncomfortable recommending that at this time . If you were looking at investing for 25 years , that 'd be a no-brainer . But it 's a bit risky for 5 years . Your investment may go down , and that 's not something I 'd have been happy with when I was 14 . There may be some other options specific to the UK which I do n't know about . If so , hopefully someone else will chime in .
The main reason is that you move from the linear payoff structure to a non-linear one . This is called <URL> in finance . With options you can design a payoff structure in almost any way to want it to be . For example you can say that you only want the upside but not the downside , so you buy a call option . It is obvious that this comes at a price , the option premium . Or equivalently you buy the underlying and for risk management reasons buy a put option on top of it as an insurance . The price of the put could be seen as the insurance premium . You can of course combine options in more complicated ways so that you e.g. profit as long as the underlying moves strongly enough in either direction . This is called a <URL> .
First , the usual caveat applies : consult a tax professional with experience in these matters . That being said , the term you 're looking for is a <URL> . The 60/40 rule applies to any contract that falls under this designation , which includes Regulated futures contracts Foreign currency contracts Nonequity options Dealer equity options Dealer securities futures contracts Futures options ( on commodities , indexes , etc. ) would fall under the " nonequity option " category , which is any listed option ( defined later ) that is not an equity option . Nonequity options include debt options , commodity futures options , currency options , and broad-based stock index options . A broad-based stock index is based on the value of a group of diversified stocks or securities ( such as the Standard and Poor 's 500 index ) .
I know some companies or entities have large incomes or expenses at certain times of the year , and like to close their books after these large events . For example where I work , the primary seasonal income comes after summer , so our fiscal year ends at the last days of October . This gives the accountants enough time to collect all the funds , reconcile whatever they have to , pay off whatever they have to and get working on a budget for the next year sooner than a calendar year would . There also might be tax reasons . To get all of your income at the beginning of your fiscal year , even if that is in the middle of the calendar year would allow a company to plan large deductible investments with more certainty . I am not to sure of the tax reasons .
Late-payment fees , damage to your credit , and the risk that you might not actually get to sell and may therefore miss more than just one or two payments .
These amounts should appear in the W2 as imported by Turbo Tax . You should be able to go to the " Income " section , and check the W2 as imported there . It should match . If it does n't - correct it . ESPP-related entry on box 14 in W2 does n't appear on your 1040 as is , instead it affects the calculations on your Schedule D . It should appear as adjustment to basis for the corresponding sales of the ESPP shares .
I dont know if this data is available for the 1980s , but <URL> to an old question of mine discusses how you can pull stock related information from google or yahoo finance over a certain period of time . You could do this in excel or google spreadsheet and see if you could get the data you 're looking for . Quote from old post : Google Docs spreadsheets have a function for filling in stock and fund prices . You can use that data to graph ( fund1 / fund2 ) over some time period .
The third Friday of each month is an expiration for the monthly options on each stock . Stock with standardized options are in one of three " cycles " and have four open months at any give time . See <URL> In addition some stocks have weekly options now . Those generally have less interest because they are necessarily short-term . Anything expiring on April 8 and 22 ( Fridays this year but not third Fridays of the month ) are weeklies . The monthly options are open for longer periods of time so they attract more interest over the time that they are open . They also potentially attract a different type of investor due to their length of term , although , as it gets close to their expiration date they may start to behave more like weeklies .
It sounds like the two best options would be to <URL> or <URL> . If there is n't much money in your SIMPLE IRA , it might make more sense to just roll it over into your 401 ( k ) so you have fewer retirement accounts to keep track of . However , if you do have a significant amount of money in the SIMPLE IRA then you may wish to take advantage of the greater freedom in investment options that IRAs offer over most 401 ( k ) plans . Keep in mind the 2-year rule for SIMPLE IRAs . You will face tax penalties if you roll it and it has n't yet been 2 years since the SIMPLE IRA was opened .
Yes , you can still make a 2013 Roth IRA contribution before the tax filing deadline . But be sure to check the income limitations for making Roth IRA contributions . High earners ( defined differently for different filing status ) are not permitted to make Roth IRA contributions . If you are expecting to get a refund on your 2013 tax return , you can even file early and use the refund toward your 2013 Roth IRA contribution . Note that Roth IRA contributions are not declared on your income tax return and so it is not necessary to file an amended return after making the Roth contribution ( see this <URL> , pointed out by @JoeTaxpayer , for details on how the IRS knows that you have made a Roth IRA contribution ) . Indeed , if the refund does not come in time and you choose to not make a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 after all ( or decide to make a reduced contribution ) , no paperwork needs to be done by you . You can also make Traditional IRA contributions after filing your tax return but before the deadline , and use the tax refund from the 2013 tax return towards the 2013 IRA contributions . However , if the tax refund is not received in time , and you choose to reduce your 2013 Traditional IRA contribution ( or not make it at all ) , then an amended return is required ( and you owe tax or will get a reduced refund ) because you have already declared that you will be making a Traditional IRA contribution ( and deducted that amount ) when you filed your income tax return early and computed that you overpaid and will be getting a refund .
The outdated information is still useful to the credit agencies and for identification . If you have ever run a cross a instance where they ask you to tell them which of the following streets did you own a property . They were using the historical info in the file to make sure that you were the person that was reflected the file . The different spellings may be a different matter . If the a person has the formal name of William , but may have info as Bill , Will and Billy , that should be reflected in the file . If they changed their name when they got married , both names should be listed . But if you never used that name , the record needs to be corrected . And by correct I do n't mean just change the name . Now if the record in the file regardless of the name , address , and phone number is not yours that has to be changed . All credit bureaus have procedures in place for you to challenge the info . This is one reason why you should check your file every year .
You should start by calling the clinic and asking them to tell you how the visit was coded . Some clinics have different billing codes based on the complexity of the visit . If you have one thing you are seeing the doctor about , that could be coded differently than if you have 4 things you are seeing the doctor about . In fact , even if you are there just for one ailment , but while you are there you happen to ask a few quick questions about other possible ailments , the doctor could decide to use the billing code for the higher complexity . If when speaking to the billing department it is determined that the visit is using a higher complexity billing code ( and a higher charge as a result ) , you could then request that it be re-coded with the lower complexity visit . Realize if you request that they will probably have to first get approval from the doctor that saw you . Note : I am basing this answer on first hand experience about 6 months ago in Illinois , where the situation I described happened to me because I asked some unrelated questions about other possible ailments at the end of a visit to an after hours clinic . The billing department explained that my visit was coded for 4 issues . ( 3 of them were quick questions I asked about at the end of the visit , one of which she referred me to another doctor . My additional questions probably extended the visit by 3-4 minutes . ) In my case I never got the bill reduced , mainly due to my own laziness and my knowing that I would hit my deductible anyway this year . Of course I ca n't say for sure if this is what happened in your case , or even if this practice is widespread . This was the first and only time in my life that I encountered it . As a side note , your primary doctor would likely rarely ever bill you for a more complex visit , as it likely would n't lead to much repeat business . As for your last question regarding your credit : if the provider decides to lower the price , and you pay the lower price , this in no way can affect your credit . Surprising Update : When I called the billing office months ago , I had asked if they could confirm the code with the doctor , and I was told they would look into it . I never heard back , never followed up , and assumed that was the end of it . Well , today I got a call back ( months later ) and was informed that they had re-coded the visit which will result in a lower charge ! It 's still pending the insurance adjustment but at some point in the future I expect to receive either a credit on my next statement or a check in the mail . ( The price difference pre-insurance in my case has gone from $ 359 to $ 235 . ) Update : I did receive a check for the difference . The check was dated July 20 , 2016 , which is just over 2 months after the phone call informing me I would receive it .
It looks like the interest rate on bonds from 1995 is at least 1.41 % . If it is from the earlier part of the year , the interest rate is 4 % . Even if it is the latter , I 'd say it is worth keeping , although you could likely do better in a CD , it would lock your money up . I 'd consider it a part of my bond allocation in my investments and up the equity a little . You can use this link to get actual prices and interest rates : <URL>
While I do n't disagree with the other answers as far as CD laddering goes ( at least in principle ) , three months CDs are currently getting much lower rates than money market accounts , at least according to <URL> . A savings account is also more liquid than CDs . Bonds are another option , and they can generally be liquidated quickly on the secondary market . However , they can go down in value if interest rates rise ( actually this is true of CDs as well -- there is a secondary market , though I believe only for brokerage CDs ? ) . Bottom line , A high yield savings account is likely your best best . As others noted , you should think of your emergency fund as savings , not investment .
Square prices are hard to beat for a small operation . I 've looked around when I was considering starting up a business , and they 're definitely one of the cheapest . Paypal are the second best , but I do not trust Paypal in general . However , looking locally may provide you some more options . If you walk in to one of the local banks , you may be able to get offers for merchant accounts with better rate , depending on your relationships with that bank . You can also check out <URL> , they seem to be quite competitive with the rates , but there may be other costs ( they will probably charge more for equipment ) .
The income should be reported in the year received . It does n't matter how you define the property ( the taxation on renting a second home is different and may not be in your favor , consult a CPA ) . Refer to <URL> . Quote : Advance Rent Advance rent is any amount you receive before the period that it covers . Include advance rent in your rental income in the year you receive it regardless of the period covered or the method of accounting you use .
I 'll start off with the bad news . The historical returns for lenders on those sites have n't been too hot . By <URL> the median annualized lender return is 0 % for Prosper . I do n't have per-lender data for Lending Club , but based on what I 've seen , the results would be a bit better but probably not by much . You can see what data I do have for Lending Club on my tracking site <URL> . Now for some better news . Lender returns ( especially at Prosper ) were dragged down significantly by some overzealous early adopters . Early on lots of people chased after 28 % + rates in E and HR grade loans thinking the default rate would be much lower than it turned out to be . Initial default rate estimates for HR grade loans based on Experian data ran about 10 % if I recall correctly . Once the dust settled though , the default rates were more like 30 % ( annualized ) . So , you take overzealous early adopters who know nothing about consumer credit rushing into a brand new market with bad information about risk right before the biggest recession since the depression . The fact that they managed to get out with even money on average actually does n't look so bad . Since then , Prosper has greatly improved their loan rating scheme based on real data from their platform and both Lending Club and Prosper have introduced more " managed portfolio " type approaches to lending . These should result in better returns for lenders . My biggest concern at this point is the viability of those platforms . Neither company originates enough loans to come even close to breaking even . My rough back-of-the-napkin estimates are that they would have to grow by 10x at least just to pay the bills .
I am not aware of a single instrument that encapsulates what you are after ; but the components do exist . At least in Canada , there are many Options traded on the Montreal Exchange that are based on Toronto ETFs . All the standard TSX ETFs are represented , as well as some of the more exotic . With a regular investment account approved for Options you should be able to do what you want . In a parallel vein , there are also double down and up ETFs . One such example are the Horizons BetaPro series of ETFs . They are designed to return double the market up or down on a daily basis and reset daily . They do need to be watched closely , however . Good Luck
I agree with Joe Taxpayer that a lot of details are missing to really evaluate it as an investment ... for context , I own a few investment properties including a ' small ' 10 + unit apartment complex . My answer might be more than you really want/need , ( it kind of turned into Real Estate Investing 101 ) , but to be fair you 're really asking 3 different questions here : your headline asks " how effective are Condo/Hotel developments as investments ? " An answer to that is ... sometimes , very . These are a way for you-the investor-to get higher rents per sq. ft. as an owner , and for the hotel to limit its risks and access additional development funding . By your description , it sounds like this particular company is taking a substantial cut of rents . I do n't know this property segment specifically , but I can give you my insight for longer-term apartment rentals ... the numbers are the same at heart . The other two questions you 're implying are " How effective is THIS condo/hotel development ? " and " Should you buy into it ? " If you have the funds and the financial wherewithal to honestly consider this , then I am sure that you do n't need your hand held for the investment pros/cons warnings of the last question . But let me give you some of my insight as far as the way to evaluate an investment property , and a few other questions you might ask yourself before you make the decision to buy or perhaps to invest somewhere else . The finance side of real estate can be simple , or complicated . It sounds like you have a good start evaluating it , but here 's what I would do : Start with figuring out how much revenue you will actually ' see ' : Gross Potential Income : 365 days x Average Rent for the Room = GPI ( minus ) Vacancy ... you 'll have to figure this out ... you 'll actually do the math as ( Vacancy Rate % ) x GPI ( equals ) Effective Potential Income = EPI Then find out how much you will actually pocket at the end of the day as operating income : Take EPI ( minus ) Operating expenses ... Utilities ... Maintenace ... HOA ... Marketing if you do this yourself ( minus ) Management Expenses ... 40 % of EPI ... any other ' fees ' they may charge if you manage it yourself . ... Extra tax help ? ( minus ) Debt Service ... Mortgage payment ... include Insurances ( property , PMI , etc ) == Net Operating Income ( NOI ) Now NOI ( minus ) Taxes == Net Income Net Income ( add back ) Depreciation ( add back ) sometimes Mortgage Interest == After-tax Cash Flows There are two " quickie " numbers real estate investors can spout off . One is the NOI , the other is the Cap Rate . In order to answer " How effective is THIS development ? " you 'll have to run the numbers yourself and decide . The NOI will be based on any assumptions you choose to make for vacancy rates , actual revenue from hotel room bookings , etc. . But it will show you how much you should bring in before taxes each year . If you divide the NOI by the asking price of your unit ( and then multiply by 100 ) , you 'll get the " Cap Rate " . This is a rough estimate of the rate of return you can expect for your unit ... if you buy in . If you come back and say " well I found out it has a XX % cap rate " , we wo n't really be qualified to help you out . Well established mega investment properties ( think shopping centers , office buildings , etc. ) can be as low as 3-5 cap rates , and as high as 10-12 . The more risky the property , the higher your return should be . But if it 's something you like , and the chance to make a 6 % return feels right , then that 's your choice . Or if you have something like a 15 % cap rate ... that 's not necessarily outstanding given the level of risk ( uncertain vacancies ) involved in a hotel . Some other questions you should ask yourself include : How much competition is there in the area for short-term lodging ? This could drive vacancies up or down ... and rents up or down as well How ' liquid ' will the property ( room ) be as an asset ? If you can just break even on operating expense , then it might still make sense as an investment if you think that it might appreciate in value AND you would be able to sell the unit to someone else . How much experience does this property management company have ... ( a ) in general , ( b ) running hotels , and ( c ) running these kinds of condo-hotel combination projects ? I would be especially interested in what exactly you 're getting in return for paying them 40 % of every booking . Seasonality ? This will play into Joe Taxpayer 's question about Vacancy Rates . Your profile says you 're from TX ... which hints that you probably are n't looking at a condo on ski slopes or anything , but if you 're looking at something that 's a spring break-esque destination , then you might still have a great run of high o during March/April/May / June , but be nearly empty during October/November/December . I hope that helps . There is plenty of room to make a more " exact " model of what your cash flows might look like , but that will be based on assumptions and research you 're probably not making
Contact the creditor , explain the situation , and if they agree to take it off your credit be sure to get it in writing from them . If they fail to remove it you can use the letter to petition the credit bureau . If they do n't agree to remove it from your credit , do n't pay it now . It will reset the timer on how long the negative mark can remain on your credit report .
end question
start question
What is a Remitting Entity ?
Remitting means paying , and entity means organization , such as a company , partnership , government department , etc. . Remitting entity is legalistic jargon used to refer to an organization that is sending money somewhere . Why it is sending money and to whom is not implicit in the term , but depends on the larger context of the usage of the term .
See <URL> from Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia : A reverse mortgage ( or lifetime mortgage ) is a loan available to seniors , and is used to release the home equity in the property as one lump sum or multiple payments . The homeowner 's obligation to repay the loan is deferred until the owner dies , the home is sold , or the owner leaves ( e.g. , into aged care ) . In a conventional mortgage the homeowner makes a monthly amortized payment to the lender ; after each payment the equity increases within his or her property , and typically after the end of the term ( e.g. , 30 years ) the mortgage has been paid in full and the property is released from the lender . In a reverse mortgage , the home owner makes no payments and all interest is added to the lien on the property . If the owner receives monthly payments , or a bulk payment of the available equity percentage for their age , then the debt on the property increases each month .
Subsidy usually means gratuitous financial support . For example , if for whatever reason you live much below the living average paying utility services in full might be too expensive - you 'll be out of money before you even think of buying food and basic clothes . Yet it 's clear that once ca n't live in a city without utility services . So the government might have a program for subsidizing utility services for people with very low income - a person brings in proof of low income and once it is low enough government will step in and pay that person utility services in full or in part depending on actual income he proves . The same can be organized for anything government or some organization wishes to support for whatever reason . The key idea is someone gives you free money for spending on some specific purpose .
Breakpoints are a feature of front-end fee payment mutual funds . As outlined in <URL> , perhaps a normal front-end fee would be 0.5 % of your investment . If , however , you put up more than a certain amount , perhaps $ 100,000 , then you would pay 0.4 % or some such . You get a break on the fees charged . There may be multiple levels , as you mention . The thought process on their part is likely two-fold . First is that it is still a sizable amount of money , even discounted . Secondly , and probably more importantly , investors with a lot of cash are generally but not always more sophisticated . They are less likely to use mutual funds at all , and may need the incentive of a lower fee to consider them as part of their investment mix . Good Luck
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> is a record that can be put on your asset , meaning that any sale proceeds of the asset will go to a lien holder/lien holder must approve any transfer of ownership . The asset continues to belong to you though . <URL> is when someone gives you money and you promise to pay it back . <URL> is a specific case of a loan - loan is called " mortgage " when something is mortgaged in return ( usually this refers to real estate , but auto loans are essentially the same ) . I.e. : the lender puts a lien on the property and has the right to sell it if you 're in default on your loan obligation ( a " regular " lien does n't give that right ) .
There is no maximum . The only stipulation other than contribution limits is that you must take withdrawals at age 701/2 .
The typical down-payment was expected to be 20 % . The idea being that if one could not save 1/5 of the cost of a house , they were not responsible enough to ensure repayment of the loan . It is hard to say whether this is truly a relevant measure . However , in the absence of other data points , it is pretty decent . It typically requires a fair amount of time to amass that much money and it does demonstrate some restraint . ( e.g. it is easily the cost of a decent new car or some other shiny " toy . " ) Income is not necessarily a good measure , on its own . I am certainly more responsible with my spending when I have less money to spend . ( Lately , I have been feeling like my father , scrutinizing every single purchase down to the penny . )
This is called " change " or " movement " - the change ( in points or percentage ) from the last closing value . You can <URL> , the format you 're referring to comes from there .
Right now the SEPA Credit Transfers take 3 days excluding holidays . In future this would be reduced to 2 days and then eventually to same day . Your bank would have acknowledged sending out the transaction . It would go into the clearing house and then to the recipient 's bank . Once the receiver 's bank receives the funds , they would notify the receiver .
<URL> has this explanation : Selective disclosure is a situation when a publicly traded company discloses material information to a single person , or a limited group of people or investors , as opposed to disclosing the information to all investors at the same time . Material information is roughly defined as information that would cause a reasonable investor to make a buy or sell decision . Thus , there may have been only some institutions given the information instead of everyone . In this case , I 'd suspect that some of the institutional investors may have gotten more information than the public in terms of Facebook 's data on some points though that is a guess . To give an example of " Selective Disclosure " consider a reality competition show where the ending is taped months in advance of it being aired . In this case , some people may know the result though this is n't public knowledge . Thus , this information is selectively disclosed to people as some may know because they had technical roles in filming the ending , adding the music or editing the footage . Generally these people would be under non-disclosure agreements but they may tell their friends about which way they could bet in a way that gives them an unfair advantage and this is why <URL> was passed for public companies though prior to the IPO , Facebook is technically private .
High liquidity does n't necessarily mean that " everybody is getting rid of the stock " , since somebody is obviously buying whatever stock that is being sold . Also , as mentioned , low liquidity may mean that you would have trouble selling the stock in the future .
Remitting means paying , and entity means organization , such as a company , partnership , government department , etc. . Remitting entity is legalistic jargon used to refer to an organization that is sending money somewhere . Why it is sending money and to whom is not implicit in the term , but depends on the larger context of the usage of the term .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
It means that you are expected to have received a separate piece of communication ( " advice " ) which confirms who the payment came from . This is common with CHAPS payments and overseas transactions .
LVR is Loan To Value Ratio . If we are buying a property of $ 100,000 with a loan of $ 75,000 , the LVR is 75 % . It is applicable to India as well . In Indian Context it is typically called Debt Equity Ratio . For most of the bank , if we are buying house of INR25 ,00,000 an LVR of 75 % will be asked by the bank . This means the buyer has to pay 25 % from his own sources .
It really just mean a family of funds . They may share the same investment style or manager or some other definable characteristic . A large fund company or bank may have several kinds of funds . Some targeting growth , others dividends , etc. . Series is a shorthand for marketing and other purposes .
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
Payment against invoice means they will pay after you send them an invoice ( typically after services are rendered ) , rather than automatically after delivery ( PAYMENT AFTER DELIVERY ) or ahead of time ( PAYMENT IN ADVANCE ) . Typically with invoice-based payment you would have a term that said what day they will pay you by . For example , NET 7 would indicate they will issue payment a week after invoice is received , NET 90 would be three months later .
I actually had to go to the bank today and so I decided to ask . The answer I was given is that a check is a legal document ( a promise to pay ) . In order to get your money from the bank , you need to sign the check over to them . By endorsing the check you are attesting to the fact that you have transferred said document to them and they can draw on that account .
end question
start question
Fund or ETF that simulates the investment goals of an options " straddle " strategy ?
I am not aware of a single instrument that encapsulates what you are after ; but the components do exist . At least in Canada , there are many Options traded on the Montreal Exchange that are based on Toronto ETFs . All the standard TSX ETFs are represented , as well as some of the more exotic . With a regular investment account approved for Options you should be able to do what you want . In a parallel vein , there are also double down and up ETFs . One such example are the Horizons BetaPro series of ETFs . They are designed to return double the market up or down on a daily basis and reset daily . They do need to be watched closely , however . Good Luck
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
An Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) is a special type of mutual fund that is traded on the stock exchange like a stock . To invest , you buy it through a stock broker , just as you would if you were buying an individual stock . When looking at a mutual fund based in the U.S. , the easiest way to tell whether or not it is an ETF is by looking at the ticker symbol . Traditional mutual funds have ticker symbols that end in " X " , and ETFs have ticker symbols that do not end in " X " . The <URL> , with ticker symbol JFAMX , is a traditional mutual fund , not an ETF . <URL> ; the <URL> , with ticker symbol JPEM , is an example . This ETF invests in similar stocks as JFAMX ; however , because it is an index-based fund instead of an actively managed fund , it has lower fees . If you are n't sure about the ticker symbol , the advertising/prospectus of any ETF should clearly state that it is an ETF . ( In the example of JPEM above , they put " ETF " right in the fund name . ) If you do n't see ETF mentioned , it is most likely a traditional mutual fund . Another way to tell is by looking at the " investment minimums " of the fund . <URL> of $ 1000 . ETFs , however , do not have an investment minimum listed ; because it is traded like a stock , you simply buy whole shares at whatever the current share price is . So if you look at the <URL> , you 'll see the fees listed , but not any investment minimums .
Banks often offer cash to people who open savings accounts in order to drive new business . Their gain is pretty much as you think , to grow their asset base . A survey released in 2008 by UK-based Age Concern declared that only 16 % of the British population have ever switched their banks ' while 45 % of marriages now end in divorce . Yip , till death do most part . In the US , similar analysis is pointing to a decline in people moving banks from the typical rate of 15 % annually . If people are <URL> then how much more difficult for online brokers to get customers to switch ? TD Ameritrade is offering you 30 days commission-free and some cash ( 0.2 % - 0.4 % depending on the funds you invest ) . Most people - especially those who use the opportunity to buy and hold - wo n't make much money for them , but it only takes a few more aggressive traders for them to gain overall . For financial institutions the question is straightforward : how much must they pay you to overcome your switching cost of changing institutions ? If that number is sufficiently smaller than what they feel they can make in profits on having your business then they will pay . EDIT TO ELABORATE : The mechanism by which any financial institution makes money by offering cash to customers is essentially one of the " law of large numbers " . If all you did is transfer in , say , $ 100,000 , buy an ETF within the 30-day window ( or any of the ongoing commission-free ones ) and hold , then sell after a few years , they will probably lose money on you . I imagine they expect that on a large number of people taking advantage of this offer . Credit card companies are no different . More than half of people pay their monthly credit balance without incurring any interest charges . They get 30 days of credit for free . Everyone else makes the company a fortune . TD Ameritrade 's fees are quite comprehensive outside of this special offer . Besides <URL> , their <URL> include subscription fees , administration fees , transaction fees , a few extra-special value-added services and , then , when you wish to cash out and realise your returns , an outbound transfer fee . However , you 're a captured market . Since most people wo n't change their online brokers any more often than they 'd change their bank , TD Ameritrade will be looking to offer you all sorts of new services and take commission on all of it . At most they spend $ 500 - $ 600 to get you as a customer , or , to get you to transfer a lot more cash into their funds . And they get to keep you for how long ? Ten years , maybe more ? You think they might be able to sell you a few big-ticket items in the interim ? Maybe interest you in some subscription service ? This is n't grocery shopping . They can afford to think long-term .
You will invest 1000 # each month and the transaction fee is 10 # per trade , so buying a bunch of stocks each month would not be wise . If you buy 5 stocks , then transaction costs will eat up 5 % of your investment . So if you insist on taking this approach , you should probably only buy one or two stocks a month . It sounds like you 're interested in active investing &amp; would like a diversified portfolio , so maybe the best approach for you is <URL> . Start by creating a well diversified portfolio " core " with index funds . Once you have a solid core , make some active investment decisions with the " satellite " portion of the portfolio . You can <URL> into the core and make active bets when the opportunity arises , so you 're not killed by transaction fees .
As long as you are disciplined about it , you can certainly have your emergency fund and other savings funds in one account . Multiple accounts may incur added costs , since you may not have the minimum balances to avoid the fees . Some banks provide tools or account features to help track separate " buckets " of funds within one account . One important principle for an emergency fund is liquidity . Those funds should be easily accessible , ideally without withdrawal penalties or transaction costs . For this reason , certificates of deposit ( CD ) or money market funds should be avoided for this purpose . Another important principle , for any savings fund , is capital preservation/safety . That money should not be held in risky assets . Depending on the purpose of the fund , you may consider other options beyond just a savings account . For example , you may consider placing funds for a house in CD ( s ) early on , before you are actually looking for the house . As you get closer to having enough for a down payment , you would shift that money into a savings account . One drawback of such an approach is the extra management that this requires on your part . A spreadsheet is a simple way to track these funds , though that requires more manual management and discipline to do that tracking . It also requires some knowledge of spreadsheets , but it provides you with flexibility so you can create a process that works well for you . Any accounting software should allow you to do this in some fashion with ( hopefully ) less effort than maintaining a spreadsheet , though you may have to do things in a certain way that may be awkward in some cases . Those are the basic principles that come to mind . I am sure others can provide more specific suggestions , like banks which allow you track buckets of funds or accounting software that can help you track the funds .
This article , <URL> Lists a number of them , although the exact mix may not be what you want . The bigger funds tend to track an index that have a number of different components . Individual ETFs are cheap enough to trade , if i were you , I 'd buy just the ones I want .
<URL> would be the general idea of maintaining a specific mix when investing , as something you do n't mention is how much cash do you have to invest as if what you invest in keeps dropping as Joe Taxpayer points out then you 'd be buying and buying and possibly never selling and thus do n't profit . For example , if you bought Detroit bonds a few years ago and then bought more as they went down then the city declared bankruptcy that could mean quite the loss for some people .
I understand you 're trying to ask a narrow question , but you 're basically asking whether you should time the market . You can find tons of books saying you should n't try it , and tons more confirming that you can . Both will have data and anecdotes to back them up . So I 'll give you my own opinion . Speculation Market timing , especially in a macro sense , is a zero-sum game . Your first thought should be : I 'm smarter than the average person ; the average person is an idiot . However , remember that a whole lot of the money in the market is not controlled by idiots . You really need to ask yourself if you can compete with people who get paid to spend 12 hours a day trying to beat the market . Investing Stick with a mid-range strategy for now . Your convictions are n't and should n't be strong enough at the moment to do otherwise . But , if you ca n't resist , I say go ahead and do what you feel . Regardless of what you do , your returns over the next 3 years wo n't be life changing . In the meantime , learn as much as you can about investing , and keep a journal of your investment activity to keep yourself honest .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
First , your benchmark : Your SB account gives you 4 % . Now , consider a fixed deposit . Banks offer you those , at rates that depend on the term . The 1-year FD today gets you between 9 and 9.5 % . While the term is locked in , you can get an early withdrawal - if you exit the 1 year FD within , say , 60 days , they 'll give you the interest rate that applied for 60 days when you started the FD ( with some banks reducing a further 1 % from that rate as a penalty ) . Still , your principal is returned in full ( the penalty is only on the interest ) . Negatives : Taxes . The interest paid is fully taxed , and worse , taxes are deducted at source ( TDS = 10 % of the interest ) , so even if you do n't use the interest it 's counted as income and taxed . Next , consider a short term debt mutual fund . These are , for terms of more than a month , just as low on risk as a bank fixed deposit . There is no equity , and these funds put money back into bank wholesale deposits which give an even better rate . You can withdraw any time you want ( it takes only a day to get money back into your account ) . Usually early withdrawal penalties will apply for about 30 days , but if you have a longer horizon that should n't be a problem . The good part : No TDS , and the interest received is not considered " income " , until you withdraw . So if you get 9 % and do n't exit , you pay no taxes , and the compounding of the full 9 % happens . It 's an alternative to a Savings Bank account - just keep putting your money in , and take it out when you need it . The bad part : There is no guarantee that you 'll get 9 % ; with market prices being volatile , the yields could drop to 6 % . So you have to track this carefully ( currently , yields have been between 8 and 9 % for the last year ) A more detailed piece on this at : <URL> Choosing such a fund : I wrote an article about it at <URL> - I still continue to be invested in those funds ( and they 're giving me about 9 % ) The above are limited risk options . For a long term view I would consider equity investments ( buying stocks or equity mutual funds ) from reputed funds . If you 're risk averse consider buying a " balanced " fund like HDFC Prudence , where they invest part in fixed income markets and part in stocks . Lastly , do n't look at the recent past only . The Sensex has returned over 18 % in the last ten years , but the ten years before that were horrible . Equity markets are risky , but can give you fantastic returns as well .
The problem I have with gold is that it 's only worth what someone will pay you for it . To a degree that 's true with any equity , but with a company there are other capital resources etc that provide a base value for the company , and generally a business model that generates income . Gold just sits there . it does n't make products , it does n't perform services , you ca n't eat it , and the main people making money off of it are the folks charging a not insubstantial commission to sell it to you , or buy it back . Sure it 's used in small quantities for things like plating electrical contacts , dental work , shielding etc. . But Industrial uses account for only 10 % of consumption . Mostly it 's just hoarded , either in the form of Jewelry ( 50 % ) or ' investment ' ( bullion/coins ) 40 % . Its value derives largely from rarity and other than the last few years , there 's no track record of steady growth over time like the stock market or real-estate . Just look at what gold prices did between 10 to 30 years ago , I 'm not sure it came anywhere near close to keeping pace with inflation during that time . If you look at the chart , you see a steady price until the US went off the gold standard in 1971 , and rules regarding ownership and trading of gold were relaxed . There was a brief run up for a few years after that as the market ' found its level ' as it were , and you really need to look from about 74 forward ( which it experienced its first ' test ' and demonstration of a ' supporting ' price around 400/oz inflation adjusted . Then the price fluctuated largely between 800 to 400 per ounce ( adjusted for inflation ) for the next 30 years . ( Other than a brief sympathetic ' Silver Tuesday ' spike due to the Hunt Brothers manipulation of silver prices in 1980 . ) Not sure if there is any causality , but it is interesting to note that the recent ' runup ' in price starts in 2000 at almost the same time the last country ( the Swiss ) went off the ' gold standard ' and gold was no longer tied to any currency ( or vise versa ) If you bought in '75 as a hedge against inflation , you were DOWN , as much as 50 % during much of the next 33 years . If you managed to buy at a ' low ' the couple of times that gold was going down and found support around 400/oz ( adjusted ) then you were on average up slightly as much as a little over 50 % ( throwing out silver Tuesday ) but then from about '98 through '05 had barely broken even . I personally view ' investments ' in gold at this time as a speculation . Look at the history below , and ask yourself if buying today would more likely end up as buying in 1972 or 1975 ? ( or gods forbid , 1980 ) Would you be taking advantage of a buying opportunity , or piling onto a bubble and end up buying at the high ? Note from Joe - The article <URL> adds to the discussion , and supports Chuck 's answer .
The below assessment is for primary residences as opposed to income properties . The truth is that with the exception of a housing bubble , the value of a house might outpace inflation by one or two percent . According to the US Census , the price of a new home per square foot only went up 4.42 % between 1963 and 2008 , where as inflation was 4.4 % . Since home sizes increased , the price of a new home overall outpaced inflation by 1 % at 5.4 % ( <URL> ) . According to Case-Shiller , inflation adjusted prices increased a measly .4 % from 1890-2004 ( see graph <URL> ) . On the other hand your down payment money and the interest towards owning that home might be in a mutual fund earning you north of eight percent . If you do n't put down enough of a down payment to avoid PMI , you 'll be literally throwing away money to get yourself in a home that could also be making money . Upgrades to your home that increase it 's value - unless you have crazy do-it-yourself skills and get good deals on the materials - usually do n't return 100 % on an investment . The best tend to be around 80 % . On top of the fact that your money is going towards an asset that is n't giving you much of a return , a house has costs that a rental simply does n't have ( or rather , it does have them , but they are wrapped into your rent ) - closing costs as a buyer , realtor fees and closing costs as a seller , maintenance costs , and constantly escalating property taxes are examples of things that renters deal with only in an indirect sense . NYT columnist David Leonhart says all this more eloquently than I ever could in : <URL> <URL> But then using his own criteria , eventually determined that it was acceptable to buy for reasons other than money without loosing money and wrote about it in <URL> . There 's an <URL> at the NYT that helps you apply Leonhart 's criteria to your own area . None of this is to say that home ownership is a bad decision for all people at all times . I 'm looking to buy myself , but I 'm not buying as an investment . For example , I would never think that it was OK to stop funding my retirement because my house will eventually fund it for me . Instead I 'm buying because home ownership brings other values than money that a rental apartment would never give me and a rental home would cost more than the same home purchase ( given 10 years ) .
Indians appear to have a cultural preference for gold , but it 's not really a reasonable retirement plan all by itself . Retirement should optimally be a set of diversified investments across as many asset classes as is possible and gold has no diversification whatsoever . Nor does it necessarily have a good expected return . And it tends to be highly volitile . And there is a rather large cost to transacting ( the selling price and buying price differ by a relatively large amount ) . Gold is a fine addition to your retirement savings , but it should n't be the whole thing or anywhere near it . The government saving schemes you mention seem to just barely keep up with inflation or perhaps be below current Indian inflation . They are kind of like a savings account but you are locked in to an interest rate . This means you will benefit if inflation or interest rates fall after your purchase but be harmed if they subsequently rise . Probably a good thing to add to a portfolio , but it should n't be the whole thing . Alternatively , just use a real savings account . A defined benefit pension plan like the one you mentioned will take on more profitable investments and hopefully be able to meet its obligations to you . If it does , this is likely a reasonable option . In that case your main worry would be inflation , since the benefits are defined in terms of nominal currency . You should also worry about the solvency of the organization . Many pensions in the US ( especially government pensions ) are underfunded and some people will almost certainly not get their full payments . Private pensions in the US are much better but not perfect . Not sure how responsible pension managers in India are on average . I notice you did n't mention any options that invest directly in risky assets , like indian stocks or international stocks . Like a mutual fund , for example . That is where a large portion of most people 's investment should probably be and it will be largely unaffected by inflation , unlike the pension and government saving schemes you mention . You can also think out of the box . Maybe invest in some real estate , for example . At the end of the day , your best bet is to invest in lots of different things . You do n't know what kind of risks the future holds , so by having investments in lots of things you minimize your worst case scenario .
First : what 's your risk tolerance ? How long is your investment going to last ? If it 's a short-term investment ( a few years ) and you expect to break even ( or better ) then your risk tolerance is low . You should not invest much money in stocks , even index funds and " defensive " stocks . If , however , you 're looking for a long-term investment which you will put money into continually over the next 30 years , the amount of stock you purchase at any given time is pretty small , so the money you might lose by timing the market wrong will also be rather small . Also , you probably do a remarkably poor job of knowing when to buy stocks . If you actually knew how to time the market to materially improve your risk-adjusted returns , you 've missed your calling ; you should be making six figures or more on Wall Street . :)
Depends on your time scale , but generally , I do n't think it would work . What you 'd really be betting on in this case is mean-reversal , which does not hold true in the equity universe ( atleast not in the long run ) . If you look at the historical prices of the S&amp;P , you 'll notice it increases in terms of absolute dollar value . On the short term , however , if you feel the market has significantly undervalued or overvalued a security , then mean-reversal might be a reasonable bet to make . In that scenario , however , it seems to me that you are really looking for a volatility trade , in which case you might want to consider a straddle position using options . Here , the bet you 'd be making is that the price at expiration will be inside a certain band ( or outside the band , depending on your position ) .
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
There are no tax consequences when you exchange funds in a tax-deferred account .
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
end question
start question
New car price was negotiated as a " cash deal " . Will the price change if I finance instead ?
There is no rule that says the dealer has to honor that deal , nor is there any that says he/she wo n't . However , if you are thinking of financing through though the dealership they are likely to honor the deal . They PREFER you finance it . If you finance it through the dealer the salesman just got TWO sales ( a car and a loan ) and probably gets a commission on both . If you finance it through a third party it makes no difference to the dealer , it is still a cash deal to them because even though you pay off the car loan over years , the bank pays them immediately in full .
If your house is repossessed because you 've defaulted on the mortgage then the bank sells the house ( probably cheap , because it 's a quick sale of a repossessed property ) , takes the money you owe them ( the mortgage balance plus the outstanding interest payments and any costs to sell the house like estate agent 's or auctioneer 's fees ) out of the proceeds , and then pays you the rest . If on the other hand the sale price does n't cover the mortgage and outstanding interest , then they can pursue you for the balance ( in many states of the US mortgages are " non-recourse " and they ca n't do this , but in the UK they can ) .
If you select Market Price instead of Limit Order , you will be executed straight away at the current Market Price . For example , if the current highest bid is 1000 shares at $ 9.98 and the lowest ask is 1000 shares at $ 10.00 and you place a Market Order for 1000 shares , you will get executed at $ 10.00 . Another example , say the current highest bid is 1000 shares at $ 9.95 and the lowest ask is 1000 shares at $ 10.00 followed by 1000 shares at $ 10.05 as the next ask in the list , and you put a Market Order to buy 2000 shares , then you will still be executed straight away , however , you would have bought 1000 shares at $ 10.00 and the second 1000 shares at $ 10.05 . Market Orders should be used when you want to make sure that your order gets executed and are not too concerned if it gets executed at a slightly higher price than the last traded price . Market Orders are often used in combination with Stop Buy and Stop Sell orders .
I appreciate the clarifications . You bought the option . You transferred the upside price risk to the builder for a price . Also , you are not obligated to buy . The market did n't rise enough to have your option go " in the money , " so to speak . That 's the other side of the risk . The builder assumed the future risk of losing money back in 2005 when you bought the option . He has n't yet had to sell you the apartment at a below market price , but he could have . So , he came out ahead in the deal . It would be silly for you to exercise your option to buy if the market price of a comparable apartment is lower than the contract price . This depends on where you live , of course , but I do n't see things rebounding much within two years . That 's my opinion ( and you should get others ) . I 'd get out .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
A couple of good books I enjoyed and found very understandable ( regarding the stock market ) : How to Buy Stocks by Louis Engel One Up on Wall Street by Peter Lynch As for investment information you can get lost for days in Investopedia . <URL> and click around . The tutorials <URL> ( free ) give a good introduction to different financial topics . Regarding theoretical knowledge : start with what you know well , like your career or your other interests . You 'll get a running start that way . Beyond that , it depends on what area of finance you want to start with . If it 's your personal finances , I and a lot of other bloggers write about it all the time . Any of the bloggers on my blogroll ( see my profile for the link ) will give you a good perspective . If you want to go head first into planning your financial life , take a look at Brett Wilder 's The Quiet Millionaire . It 's very involved and thorough . And , of course , ask questions here .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
No , you should certify your correct tax status when you open a bank account . I have never been asked to provide any proof of address , and I 've opened several bank accounts . What you need to do is probably to shop around and consider opening in person in the branch and not online .
The offering price is the price at which that IPO is , well , offered . Think of it as a suggested retail price . The opening price is the actual price at which trading begins , on a particular day , for a stock . That price depends on demand/overnight-orders/what-have-you . Think of this as the actual price in the store .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
You 're not clueless at all . You do n't mention that you have any debt , but if you have consumer debt , you might want to consider accelerating your payments on those debts unless you 're already doing so . You and your wife have a baby on the way . They 're an absolute joy ( we have a 7-year-old ) , but they 're also a financial strain . If I were in your shoes knowing what I know about your situation , I 'd think carefully and go slowly with any investing until after you adjust to a larger family . That way you run less risk of having a sizable investment tank when you really need the money for your new baby . Continue to learn about investing . There 's no reason to rush into something you 're not comfortable with . If your goal is for a down payment on a house , then continue towards that . Cash is just fine for that . Shop around for a good house from someone who really needs to sell .
It 's my understand that leasing is never the better overall deal , with the possible exception of a person who would otherwise buy a brand new car every 2 or 3 years , and does not drive a lot of miles . Note : in the case of a company car , Canadian taxes let you deduct the entire lease payment ( which clearly has some principal in it ) if you lease , while if you buy you can only deduct the interest , and must depreciate the car according to their schedule . This can make leasing more attractive to those buying a car through a corporation . I do n't know if this applies in the US . The numbers you ran through in class presumably involved calculating the interest paid over the term of the loan . Can you not just redo the calculation using actual interest and lease numbers from a randomly chosen current car ad ? I suspect if you do , you will discover leasing is still not the right choice .
It seems that counting your father as your dependent should n't , in itself , cause him to be ineligible for SNAP . Eligibility requirements for SNAP can be found on <URL> . There are upper limits on the " countable resources , such as a bank account " that the beneficiary 's household may have , and on that household 's income . ( There are some other requirements , too . ) From what I can tell from your question , your father should n't be part of your household for SNAP purposes , because : Everyone who lives together and purchases and prepares meals together is grouped together as one household . If you 're transferring him money , I assume he 's living and eating somewhere else , so it seems you are not part of his household . According to the IRS 's Publication 501 , your father is not required to be part of your household for IRS purposes to be your dependent . <URL> is that a non-child dependent must either : Live with you all year as a member of your household , or Be related to you in one of the ways listed under <URL> However , by the <URL> , you may be able to use your father as your qualifying person ( dependent ) to be able to file as " head of household " , so long as you pay more than half their support , and " more than half the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for the entire year for your father " . I do n't know if in this case the IRS would consider your father " part of your household " or not . Even if the IRS considered your father part of your household based on the way you filed your taxes , I think it 's possible , as the IRS and FNS are two different entities , that the definition of your father 's household for SNAP purposes could be different from the IRS 's .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
Shares are partial ownership of the company . A company can issue ( not create ) more of the shares it owns at any time , to anyone , at any price -- subject to antitrust and similar regulations . If they wanted to , for example , flat-out give 10 % of their retained interest to charity , they could do so . It should n't substantially affect the stock 's trading for others unless there 's a completely irrational demand for shares .
Assuming a price is set on an free market there are particular difficulties to pricing . A free market is one where the price is entirely determined by the willingness of people to buy and sell at a particular price point . What you perceive as price , is actually the " tick " , i.e. the quote of the last transaction . The first and most serious major obstacle to pricing is a variation of the prisoners dilemma , a psychological phenomenon . For instance , bitcoin might be worth 4 $ now , but you believe it will be worth 5 $ in 3 days . Will you buy bitcoin ? If acting only on your conviction , yes . But what if you consider what other people will do ? Will others believe bitcoin will be worth 5 $ in 3 days ? Will they act on their conviction ? Will the others believe that others believe that it wil be worth 5 $ in 3 days , and will the others believe that the others who believe will act on their conviction ? Will the others believe that others believe of still others who believe that they will act on their conviction ? It goes on like this ad-infinitum . The actual behavior of any individual on the market is essentially chaotic and unpredictable ( for the reason stated above and others ) . This is related to a phenomenon you call market efficiency . An efficient market always reflects the optimal price-point at any given time . If that is so , then you can not win on this market , because at the time you would have to realize a competitive edge , everybody else has already acted on that information . Markets are not 100 % efficient of course . But modern electronic markets can be very , very efficient ( as say compared to stock markets fro 100 years ago , where you could get a competitive edge just by having access to a fast courier ) . What makes matters rather more difficult for price forecasting is that not only are humans engaging in the market , machines are as well . The machines may not be terribly good at what they do , but they are terribly fast . The machines that work well ( i.e. do n't loose much ) will survive , and the ones that do n't will die in short order . Since speed is one of the major benefits of the machines over humans , they tend to make markets even more efficient . Another phenomenon to price forecasting is that of information and entropy . Suppose you found a reliable method to predict a market at a given time . You act on this information and indeed you make a profit . The profit you will be able to achieve will diminish over time until it reaches zero or reverts . The reason for this is that you acted on private information , which you leaked out by engaging in a trade . The more successful you are in exploiting your forecast , the better you train every other market participant to react to their losses . Since for every trade you make successfully , there has to be somebody who lost . People or machines who lose on markets usually exit those markets in some fashion . So even if the other participants are not adjusting their behavior , your success is weeding out those with the wrong behavior . Yet another difficulty in pricing forecasts are black-swan events . Since information can have a huge impact on pricing , the sudden appearance of new information can throw a conservative forecast completely off the rails and incur huge losses ( or huge unexpected benefits ) . You can not quantify black-swan events in any shape or form . It is my belief that you can not predict efficient and well working markets . You might be able to predict some very sub-optimal markets , but usually , hedge-funds are always on the hunt for inefficient markets to exploit , so by simple decree of market economics , the inefficient markets tend to be a perpetually dying species .
When the market is open , the price displayed is the last traded price . If you are using Google then there may be a delay in which you may be seeing the last traded price 15 + minutes ago . Similarly when the market closes , the price you see is the last traded price prior to the close .
As mentioned in the comments : According to the message from the exchange all trades at or below $ 5.86 that were executed in NASDAQ between 09:38:00 and 09:46:00 ET got canceled . If the short does n't fall into those criteria but the long does , though luck the long is invalid , the short is valid . Traders that got the short end of the stick in the end , should contact their brokers and inquire about this situation . Depending on the terms of the broker the short might get canceled as well . If not , then it 's up to the market . The trader can keep or close the short . IMO , what the person in question should have done is hold on to the trade and see what happens at the end of the trading day . He should 've realized something was wrong when the price went from 8 . xx to 0.8 x.
end question
start question
What does high credit utilization really mean ?
Some people are paranoid about day-to-day or month-to-month fluctuations in their credit scores , perhaps because they have signed up with various on-line services that monitor their credit scores and promptly report any changes . Suppose your credit limit is $ 5000 and you charge $ 3500 ( 70 % ) on the card each month for several months in a row and pay the full balance promptly every month ; maybe even on the day the monthly statement is issued . Yes , it may " look bad " to the reporting agencies and affect your credit score negatively since the agencies can not tell the difference between your actions and those of someone who charged $ 3500 once and is paying just enough each month to keep the balance at $ 3500 . But , your credit card company knows the difference between you and the other guy , and believe me , the company would far rather have you as a customer than the other guy . Since the credit-card company charges the merchants fees ( anywhere from 1 % to 5 % ) for processing the transactions , they earn far more from you than the other guy , and have comparatively little risk of having to turn over the account to a collection agency . You will likely get an increase in your credit limit without even asking for it in a few months . They want to keep you rather than lose you to a competing offer from another credit-card company . Of course , as in all cases , YMMV .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
Given the context , I 'd imagine you need to give at least 24 hours notice of viewings so that the landlord can inform the tenant ( probably due to a clause in the lease )
Private Mortgage Insurance . It 's money that you pay to an insurance company to make the lender whole in the event that you go into default . It 's a real waste of money for you . If you are trying to finance more than 80 % of the value of a home , a standard mortage is likely to require that you get PMI . Nowadays there are other options which involve paying substantially more interest .
<URL> Asian debt markets have also been under pressure lately , reflecting global asset reallocation from emerging markets ( EMs ) to developed markets ( DMs ) in view of the growing unease over the impending reversal in the QE stimulus by the US Fed .
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
Credit utilization , when you 're talking about your credit report/credit score , is based on what is reported to it by the credit card companies . This means several things . First , most companies only report your balance periodically . Monthly is most common , though other frequencies can apply ; you would have to talk to your card issuer to find out exactly what they do . Most often , they report your <URL> , which is the amount that was finalized on your card as of the statement date . That amount would n't typically contain ' pending ' charges , though the issuer usually allows some time for pending charges to be finalized before issuing the statement . Since they often report the statement balance , if that 's the case with your issuer , you may need to pay your balance more than once a month to keep utilization low . They may also report on the first of the month rather than the statement balance , in which case you 'd want to contact the issuer to find out exactly when they report . You can usually identify the statement balance , if that 's what they report , by checking your credit report periodically and comparing the reported balance to your past statements .
It reminds me of the Efficient Market Hypothesis , except that just states in its weakest form that the current market price accounts for all information embedded in previous market prices . In other words , people buying today at 42 know it was selling for 40 yesterday , and the patterns and such . To say that stock is memoryless strikes me as not quite right -- to the extent that stocks are valued based on earnings , much of what we infer about future earnings relies on past and present earnings . One obvious counterexample to this " memoryless " claim is bankruptcy . If a stock files bankruptcy , and there is n't enough money to pay senior debt , your shares are worth 0 in perpetuity .
Your understanding is indeed wrong . Bond yield is the effective interest rate relative to the current market price of the bond , and it is anything but fixed . There was never anyone actually paying or receiving 42 % interest in the whole affair . What happened is that bonds with a nominal interest rate of perhaps 10 % ( for simplicity 's sake , and probably not too unrealistic at that point ) were selling at less than 25 % of their nominal value . Basically , there were bonds that said " The Greek government will pay you 100 EUR in 10 years , and until then 10 EUR each year " , which someone had originally paid 100 EUR for , but now people were only willing to pay about 24 EUR for them ( which would have made the 10 EUR per year a 42 % ROI ) . Why were they only willing to pay that little ? Because at that time everyone thought that there was a pretty good chance that Greece would default and they would get neither the 10 EUR interest payment nor the 100 EUR principal in 10 years , and instead would end up losing the 24 EUR they had just paid . What actually happened was a debt restructuring with the effect that Greece is now paying back considerably less , both yearly and at the end of the maturity period , which means that the people who paid 24 EUR for those bonds are getting a much less spectacular ROI ( not sure how much exactly , but probably still pretty good , after all they did bear a considerable risk of total loss ) . The takeaway ? A high bond yield is actually a big warning sign when you 're looking for an investment , because it means the market thinks it 's a high risk investment .
Market cap is basically the amount of money that it would cost to buy all of the shares of public stock in a company . Or share cost * number of outstanding shares . It is a measure of how much a company is worth . <URL>
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
High liquidity does n't necessarily mean that " everybody is getting rid of the stock " , since somebody is obviously buying whatever stock that is being sold . Also , as mentioned , low liquidity may mean that you would have trouble selling the stock in the future .
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
You should pay things off every month . You do n't want to be paying 10 % -25 % interest if you do n't have to . If you regularly use you card , the credit agencies ca n't tell the difference . The way it works is that every month , they send the credit agencies your current balance and if you paid the last bill on time . There is nothing that indicates if this is a standing balance , or if you charged all of it since the last payment . Any business that you legitimately owe a debt to can report that to the credit agencies . Not all of them do . This includes utilities , cell phone companies , landlords , etc. . If any of them report overdue items it will show up on your credit report , and your credit card company can use that to raise you interest rate . Some cards will automatically raise you credit limit . They are basically looking to make money fro you . If you often charge near the limit , and pay the minimum balance each month , they may raise your limit to get you to charge more , and pay more interest . You can also call them and ask . They have some internal rules to decide if , based on your history with them and your credit history , if you are a good risk .
Bid = 38.99 x 6800 Someone wants to buy 6800 shares at $ 38.99 each . Ask = 39.00 x 4300 Someone wants to sell 4300 shares at $ 39.00 each . When someone 's bid price matches someone 's ask price , you 've got a transaction .
Typically a private company is hit by demand supply issues and cost of inputs . In effect at times the cost of input may go up , it can not raise the prices , because this will reduce demand . However certain public sectors companies , typically in Oil &amp; Engery segements the services are offered by Public sector companies , and the price they charge is governed by Regulatory authorities . In essence the PG&amp;E , the agreement for price to customers would be calculated as cost of inputs to PG&amp;E , Plus Expenses Plus 11.35 % Profit . Thus the regulated price itself governs that the company makes atleast 11.35 % profit year on year . Does this mean that the shares are good buy ? Just to give an example , say the price was $ 100 at face value , So essentially by year end logically you would have made 111.35 / - . Assuming the company did not pay dividend ... Now lets say you began trading this share , there would be quite a few people who would say I am ready to pay $ 200 and even if I get 11.35 [ on 200 ] it still means I have got ~ 6 % return . Someone may be ready to pay $ 400 , it still gives ~ 3 % ... So in short the price of the stock would keep changing depending how the market percieves the value that a company would return . If the markets are down or the sentiments are down on energy sectors , the prices would go down . So investing in PG&amp;E is not a sure shot way of making money . For actual returns over the years see the graph at <URL>
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
No , the IRR is n't how your funds are performing in the market unless you are putting in the max on Jan. 1 and then not adding or removing anything for the year so that it matches the total return of the fund . It 's a computation of what is your personal rate of return in terms of how much money have you put in , which is beginning balance plus contributions , compared to the ending balance factoring in any withdrawals . Thus it is how much each dollar you invested did over the course of the period that the return is given . Something to point out here is that if you are dollar-cost averaging then the IRR is a better measure of how your performance is as it is n't quite the same as the total return of the fund . Consider the case of a fund that goes up 10 % each month and you invest $ 100/month into the fund for an entire year , just to keep the Math simple here . The fund 's total return is ( 1.1 ) ^ 12 = 3.138428376721 which is 214 % . So , if you invested $ 1200 at the start of the year , you 'd have $ 3766.11 at the end of the year for a gain of $ 2566.11 . However , if we space out the computations , the end total becomes a mere $ 2352.27 , for a gain of $ 1152.27 , as the compounding is reduced . Thus , in this case your IRR is 96 % since you invested $ 1200 and made $ 1152.27 on it . For those wanting the raw figures , here is the $ 100/month returns at the end of each month : 110231364 .1 510.51 671.561 848.7171 1043.58881 1257.947691 1493.74246 1753.116706 2038.428377 2352.271214 In contrast , here is how the $ 1200 invested as a lump sum , does : 132014521597 .2 1756.92 1932.612 2125.8732 2338.46052 2572.306572 2829.537229 3112.490952 3423.740047 3766.114052 As the final totals are rather different , the rate of returns should also be quite different . The total returns are different because in one case , the person spaced out the purchases compared to the other case . These should n't both have the same return unless you 're going to factor in the time value of money somehow to make up the difference .
end question
start question
Rental Properties : Is it good or bad that I ca n't find rental listings on that street ?
Based on a quick look at the street via Google Maps I have Estimated that there are 50 properties on the street Assume that all are 2 family houses . If 10 % are rentals that means that 10 units have renters . If they are evenly spread though out the year then 1 is for rent right now . If 25 % of all listings appear on Craigslist . Then there is a 25 % chance there is a listing on Craigslist right now . Finding Zero is the expected result of your Craigslist check . You will have to do a lot more research . A local agent can help you determine the number of days they stay on the market before they are rented . They can also help determine the spread between purchase costs and rental cost . You will also have to figure in the cost of hiring a local management company , if you do n't want to drive to Syracuse every time the renter has a problem in the middle of the night , or in the middle of a blizzard .
No to both . The deposit refund is not taxable , but in states where security must earn interest , that small amount is subject to tax . I just returned a $ 750 deposit to a tenant , and after a year , it accrued $ 0.24 . A rebate of fees you pay such as ATM fees is just you getting back your own money . As is " cash back " on credit card purchases . Not taxable .
If the check is drawn an a Canadian bank , and does not specify the currency , then it is assumed to be in Canadian dollars . Edit : To identify a check clearing through the US Federal Reserve system , every check will have three numbers on the bottom of it : A routing number , an account number , and a check number . The routing number is 9 digits long , and is normally book-ended by two symbols that look like this a bar and two dots | : The last Canadian check I saw had a routing number which was five digits , a dash , and then three digits . Unfortunately , I do n't see them often enough to know if that 's how they always appear or not .
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Yes this counts as a deductible expense . If their help resulted in a rental agreement that is very easy to document , just keep the bill , a copy of the check , and the rental agreement . If the search was unsuccessful , still keep the bill and a copy of the check , plus more documentation to show that a service was actually performed . Note if they ran ads , showed the unit ... This is just in case you get audited .
While Warren Buffet does hold nearly 100 % of his wealth in BRK , he does have a personal retirement account of a few million USD at last disclosure . Individual accounts are not for public consumption ; however , he has revealed that he invests in a similar manner as he did as managing partner of Buffett Partnership , Ltd. and its predecessors , in far smaller companies than the current BRK holdings .
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
Almost any financial institution has the technical ability to do this ( simply called sweeps , auto sweeps , or deposit sweeps ) ; the issue you face is finding an institution that is willing to do it for you . I think you will have the most luck at your primary financial institution where you currently keep the majority of your banking relationship . You will have better luck at small-town banks and credit unions . The mega banks will likely not waver from their established policies . Deposit sweeps are common for business accounts . They are usually tied to a savings account , which is usually held within the same institution , however this is not a requirement . The sweep can send money to any US bank if you can provide the routing number and account number . The sweep will establish a peg balance , or floor balance , on the checking account . At the end of the day , any amount above the peg is swept into the savings account automatically . I doubt you will find what you 're asking for within an online banking system . You will likely have to go into a branch and speak with a personal banker . Explain to them you want to establish a sweep on your checking account and want to send the funds to another financial institution . You will have better luck asking for a peg of $ 100 , or some other small amount . They may not take your request seriously if you want to completely empty the checking account to zero .
We use <URL> to handle our household budget - their latest version allows cloud sync between Android/iOS devices and various desktop installs . I have the budget folder shared with my wife 's Dropbox account so we both an view the budget , enter spending , and make changes .
There is no maximum . The only stipulation other than contribution limits is that you must take withdrawals at age 701/2 .
<URL> When you change property you held for personal use to rental use ( for example , you rent your former home ) , the basis for depreciation will be the lesser of fair market value or adjusted basis on the date of conversion . Fair market value . This is the price at which the property would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller , neither having to buy or sell , and both having reasonable knowledge of all the relevant facts . Sales of similar property , on or about the same date , may be helpful in figuring the fair market value of the property . Figuring the basis . The basis for depreciation is the lesser of : The fair market value of the property on the date you changed it to rental use , or Your adjusted basis on the date of the change -- that is , your original cost or other basis of the property , plus the cost of permanent additions or improvements since you acquired it , minus deductions for any casualty or theft losses claimed on earlier years ' income tax returns and other decreases to basis . For other increases and decreases to basis , see Adjusted Basis in chapter 2 . So my guess is that your $ 40,000 is what you have to use . I am not an accountant . You should seek professional advice to clarify what the IRS means .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
I think it 's safe to say that Apple can not grow in value in the next 20 years as fast as it did in the prior 20 . It rose 100 fold to a current 730B valuation . 73 trillion dollars is nearly <URL> in the world . Unfortunately , for every Apple , there are dozens of small companies that do n't survive . Long term it appears the smaller cap stocks should beat large ones over the very long term if only for the fact that large companies ca n't maintain that level of growth indefinitely . A non-tech example - Coke has a 174B market cap with 46B in annual sales . A small beverage company can have $ 10M in sales , and grow those sales 20-25 % / year for 2 decades before hitting even $ 1B in sales . When you have zero percent of the pie , it 's possible to grow your business at a fast pace those first years .
According to Clark Howard . The best mix is to have at least two reward cards for no other reason than rewards , but you actually should have more as far as credit score goes . 30 % of your credit score is based on how much of your credit that you use . I had only 17k in credit . I usually spend 6k a month and pay it off every month . I went to 4 credit cards got the total line up to over 40k and because my usage went down to about 12 % of total credit , my credit score went up about 40 points to mid 700 's after two months Long story short the more credit cards you have the better for your credit score . You should use each one twice a year to keep them active . ( Not relevant for a store credit card , you do n't want to buy something from macy 's for the sake of keeping the card active )
I think your first step is to be asking for an itemized billing as to exactly what services they claim to have rendered in the half hour that would result in that sort of charges . These days a lot of medical providers have outrageously high rates if you are not a member of a medical plan that has negotiated rates with the provider . I 've heard of instances where someone without insurance was being charged anywhere from 5-8 TIMES more than someone covered by a health plan would be billed . ( this seems to be the new tactic to make up for the expenses of covering those without coverage or a means to pay . Once you have some kind of accounting for the charges , if you ca n't get them to reduce it to a reasonable level , it might be time to contact a consumer advocate at a local paper or news station . If you were recommended specifically to this OT by your primary provider , I 'd also let them know about these insane charges , and you might want to suggest it would be in the best interests of their patients for them to find someone else ( with less egregious fee schedule ) to refer patients to for such services in the future . An important lesson here is to ask about charges and insurance coverage IN ADVANCE and do n't be afraid to shop around and check multiple providers . There is very little transparency of pricing in the healthcare industry at the moment , and prices for the very same procedure ( such as a consult , or medical imaging ) can vary widely ( e.g. three maybe even four digit percentage differences ) from one provider to another . You really need to be an informed consumer when it comes to health care these days to avoid being taken to the cleaners .
They however claim that the taxes will be paid on my behalf considering the income for one year . Yes that 's right . They are required to consider the full years income and deduct tax in 12 equal portions , right from first salary . You can claim refund while filing returns .
Edit : What is a reasonable and/or customary time frame to allow them to keep a guest ? " Whats customary " - is relative to interpretation . So if you 're just trying to be nice I 'd say 10 days or two weeks is enough . In your state a guest at a lodge , motel , or hotel is defined as someone who stays for less then 31 days . " Permanent guest " , any person who rents and occupies a guest room in a lodging establishment for a period of thirty-one days or more ; Source - <URL> Additional information : If there is no agreement about guests , or who can occupy the property then you may be unable to force the tenant to restrict them from having a guest stay there . However here is some information that might help you gain leverage in the situation - <URL> If the guest is involved in criminal activity on the property you can then restrict the tenant from allowing that guest back on the property . Also if you have a " No Smoking " policy and the guest is a smoker you might also be able to use that as leverage . I suggest consulting a lawyer in your area for legal information . Some additional resources : <URL> - You might be able to get a more detailed answer from the forums here . <URL> - You can search Missouri Statues here .
You do n't . Say you deposited $ 5000 . Then you converted $ 4950 to Roth . You declare $ 4950 as the amount converted and you 're done .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
does it mean uncontrolled severe deflation/inflation is more likely to occur compared to " normal " currencies such as USD , EUR etc ? Look at the chart referenced in the link in your question . It took approximately 50 years for annual production of gold to double from 500 tons to 1000 tons . It took approximately 40 years for annual production to double from 1000 tons to 2000 tons . Compare that to the production of US dollars by the Federal Reserve ( see chart below obtained from <URL> ) . US dollar production doubled in DAYS . Which one do you think will lead to uncontrolled inflation/deflation ? Update : Why did I include a chart of the FED 's balance sheet ? Because this is the way newly printed money is introduced - the FED will purchase something from banks ( mortgage-backed securities , US treasuries , etc. ) with newly printed money . The banks can then loan this money to people who then deposit the money into other banks who loan those deposits to other people and so on . This is how the fractional reserve process expands the money supply . This is why I did not include a chart of the money supply since that is counting the same money multiple times . If I deposited 100 newly minted coins into a bank and that bank proceeded to loan out 80 of my coins where 80 are deposited into another bank who then proceeds to loan out 60 of the coins , and so on ... the production of coins only changed by the initial 100 that I minted - not by the fractional reserve multiple . There are historical examples of inflation with gold and silver as duff has pointed out . None of them come close in magnitude to the inflation experienced with <URL> .
end question
start question
Rolling over my 401k : Who is " New Plan Trustees of [ insert name ] Plan " ?
You should get this information from your new employer 's plan manager . If they do n't have this information ( they should have instructions on incoming rollovers ... ) - talk to the benefits manager at your new employer , they 'll have it for you . The name must match perfectly the official name of the plan , so asking here wo n't help you much .
Ultimately it falls on you , since you 'll be the one reporting it on your tax forms ( at the time of redemption , not contribution ) . However , when you transferred the Roth to your new broker he should have inherited the historical contribution information . It may have been an oversight though , as I know my new broker had to specifically ask for that information .
I think you should really start a limited company for this . It 'll be a lot simpler to spread the income over multiple years if your business and you have completely separate identities . You should also consult an accountant , if only once to understand the basics of how to approach this . Having a limited company would also mean that if it has financial problems , you do n't end up having to pay the debts yourself . With a separate company , you would keep any money raised within the company initially and only pay it to yourself as salary over the three years , so from an income tax point of view you 'd only be taxed on it as you received it . The company would also pay for project expenses directly and there would n't be any income tax to pay on them at all . You would have to pay other taxes like VAT , but you could choose to register for VAT and then you 'd be able to reclaim VAT on the company 's expenses but would have to charge VAT to your customers . If you start making enough money ( currently # 82,000 / year ) you have to register for VAT whether you want to or not . The only slight complication might be that you could be subject to corporation tax on the surplus money in the first year because it might seem like a profit . However , given that you would presumably have promised something to the funders over a three year period , it should be possible to record your promises as a " liability " for " unearned income " in the company accounts . In effect you 'd be saying " although there 's still # 60,000 in the bank , I have promised to spend it on the crowdfunded thing so it 's not profit " . Again you should consult an accountant at least over the basics of this .
You get to put money away with special tax incentives ( ie - no or less taxes to pay ) They are state sponsored and therefore pretty reliable , but some states are better than others . Like with many of these tax incentive type accounts ( FSA , Dependent Care Spending Accounts ) they are use it or lose it . ( In a 529 , use it or transfer it ) . So the money put away is a sunk cost towards education and can not be repurposed for something else should your kid not want to attend school . <URL>
An option without the vesting period and the price at which one can exercise the option is of not much value . If vesting is determined by board , then at any given point in time they can change the vesting period to say 3 , 5 , 10 years any number . The other aspect is at what price you are allowed to exercise the option , ie if the stock is of value 10 , you may be given an option to buy this at 10 , 20 or 100 . This has to be stated upfront for you to know the real value . On listing if the value is say 80 , then if you have the option to exercise at 10 , or 20 you would make money , else at 100 you loose money and hence choose not to exercise the option . However your having stuck around the company for " x " years in anticipation of making money would go waste . Without a vesting period or the price to exercise the option , they are pretty much meaningless and would depend on the goodwill of the founders
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
According to TD Ameritrade , 401 ( k ) Savings ( among others ) are generally eligible to be rolled over into your qualified retirement plan , in this case a Simplified Standardized Individual 401 ( k ) Profit Sharing Plan . You may need to do an intermediate roll-over , but check with your plan holder . <URL>
Your bonus is taxed at exactly the same rate as the rest of your salary , its just the withholding that differs ( because the bonus is n't fitted into the regular withholding calculations ) . It will all be normalized on your annual 1040 . Is there a tax advantage to putting 100 % of my bonus into 401k ? No . You can adjust your withholding rate using updated form W4 , to account for the extra withheld because of the bonus . From looking at my pay stubs , my bonus gets taxed at a higher rate than my regular paychecks . Bonus tax withholding can be upwards of 40 % after federal ( 25 % ) and state taxes . For some its higher rate , for others it may in fact be lower . Federal withholding for lump-sum payments is usually flat 25 % ( usually , because the employers can , if they want to , adjust their withholding calculations to account for the bonus , and then withhold the " regular " amount . But it usually complicates the accounting and most chose not to ) . Similarly , State withholding is probably calculated at some State-mandated high ( closer to the highest bracket ) rate . That makes the lump-sum tax calculation simple , but for most people - the withholding will be higher than the actual tax liability . For some ( high earners ) it will be the opposite - the flat-rate withholding will be lower than their marginal tax and they 'll end up underpaying their taxes . And since traditional 401k contributions are pre-tax , the thinking is that contributions from my bonus paycheck will save me more in taxes than contributions from my regular paychecks . No , because the 25 % is the withholding , not the actual tax . The actual tax on your whole compensation is calculated using your marginal rates . You 'll get the actual amount when you fill your tax return . If because of the extra withholding on your bonus you ended up paying more than you should have - you 'll get a refund from the IRS . Here 's <URL> on this exact question .
" myRA " is a name for a proposal Obama made to make IRA more accessible to people who are employed but do n't have access to the traditional employer-sponsored retirement plans . However , other than making IRA more accessible - there 's nothing in that plan that does n't exist already . You can open IRA yourself and deposit money there yourself . The only thing " myRA " proposal adds is an ability to deduct money automatically from your paycheck and deposit it into your IRA without you doing it manually . Bottom line - it is just a proposal , not an existing program , that makes things you 're already doing easier for people who are not doing it yet .
The total outlay in 1 . is $ 15552 and in 2 . is $ 15560 , so if you had the $ 4000 ( and ignoring forgone interest which is very low at the moment ) , then you 'd only need $ 8 of savings from the tax deduction for it to be worthwhile - I suspect they set it up so that the numbers would be the same modulo rounding errors . From your stats you probably do n't have the $ 4000 up front , so you 'd have to borrow it . Let 's guess it might mean a 25 % interest rate given your poor credit situation , and that you 'd pay most of it back in the last 2 of the 12 months , so it 'd cost you about $ 1000 . I guess your tax bracket may mean that the savings from the tax deduction still make that worthwhile , but I 'm not familiar enough with US tax to be sure .
Charlie would have to have a family or employee-plus-one HSA-compatible plan to contribute the family limit ( $ 6550 for 2014 ) . Importantly , those covered under his plan can not have non-HSA-compatible coverage . From the <URL> : Other health coverage . You ( and your spouse , if you have family coverage ) generally can not have any other health coverage that is not an HDHP . However , you can still be an eligible individual even if your spouse has non-HDHP coverage provided you are not covered by that plan . Lower down on the same page it talks about <URL> . You definitely want to withdraw the excess or else you get hit with a 6 % tax on it every year . The withdrawal , along with earnings on the excess contributions , needs to be done before you file your taxes .
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
To understand diversification , I highly recommend <URL> . It walks through how diversification works starting with a practical example and then working through the math . " Too diversified " does n't really make sense based on what you 're talking about . You might apply that description if you had a portfolio that was invested into a couple of dozen different asset classes and the complexity of managing it was becoming a burden . Of if you have so many asset classes that you incur extra costs that you ca n't recover through either higher return or reduced risk . ( Beyond a handful of well-chosen asset classes , adding more diversification does n't really buy you much extra risk reduction . ) Is this advisor fee-only or does he have a vested interest in getting you to buy something ? If the latter , beware of advice given by salesmen ... If you read the book , you 'll be able to ask more intelligent questions of your advisor . But in any case , you should ask him to specifically explain why he thinks adding VTI or VEU will add more variance or lower expected returns to your portfolio than QQQ or SPY . Ideally , he can show you a pair of curves like this to back up his assertion -- one for VTI+VEU and one for QQQ+SPY :
Yes , an estate plan can be very important . <URL> - typically attempts to eliminate uncertainties over the administration of a probate and maximize the value of the estate by reducing taxes and other expenses . Guardians are often designated for minor children and beneficiaries in incapacity . In general , your " estate " includes all of your assets , less all debt , plus death benefits from all life insurance policies not held in an irrevocable trust . The biggest reason to have an estate plan is to make sure that your personal values about both medical and personal finance financial matters are honored in the event that death or incapacity prevents you from acting for yourself . In addition , tax minimization is a further and very important goal of estate planning for persons with taxable estates . To create an estate plan for yourself or update an existing plan , you will most likely need the services of an estate planning attorney . When you consult with an estate planning attorney , the attorney considers how you want assets distributed to heirs , what taxes might your estate be liable for and whether there are tax-minimization strategies that would be appropriate and appealing ; what your preferences and values are with respect to the management of medical and financial affairs in the event of incapacity ; and any complicating family issues . To deal with these issues , your attorney will need full and accurate information about you , including : Demographic Information : spouses , children , date of residency in the state , date of marriage ( s ) , country of citizenship , whether you have previously made taxable gifts and if you are a beneficiary or a trustee of an existing trust . Financial Information : a detailed list of what you own and owe , life insurance policies on your life , business interests , and how each asset is currently titled . Personal Finance Circumstances : special issues for the attorney to consider -- e.g. , potential inheritances , creditor problems , a strong desire to give gifts , potential family disputes , medical concerns , or any uncertainty that you may have about your current estate plan . Personal Finance Preferences : your wishes for end of life medical care , for how your wealth will be distributed to heirs , and for how much planning you are interested in doing to minimize taxes . When an estate plan is created , be sure you understand what the attorney is saying . Estate planning ideas can be confusing . It is also appropriate and expected for you to ask about the attorney 's fee for any legal service . Some articles and resources : <URL> <URL>
In the US , there are several ways to save for retirement : Tax deferred savings : These include the individual retirement arrangements ( IRA ) , 401 ( k ) employer sponsored plans and other similar plans ( 457 ( b ) plans for government employees , 403 ( b ) plans for universities , etc ) and self-employed plans ( either SEP or SIMPLE IRA or Solo-401 ( k ) ) . Tax exempt savings : These include essentially the same kinds of programs , designated as " Roth " ( for <URL> who introduced the legislation in 1997 ) . Contribution limits The are differences in the amounts you can save with each type of the investment vehicle . For 401 ( k ) and similar , the current maximum allowed for deferral is $ 17500 a year . However , that does n't include the employee match . Including the match , the current maximum is $ 51k a year . For self employed plans , the maximum is also $ 51K a year , but is limited to 1/4 of net earnings , i.e. : if you 're losing money - you can not also deduct your retirement contributions from your taxable income . For non-sponsored plans ( IRA ) the current limit is $ 5500 a year . I.e. : if you do n't have access to an employer-sponsored plan and you 're not self-employed - you 're screwed . If you no longer have access to the 401 ( k ) plan you may not be able to save the same amounts as you 're saving now . The IRA limits are for the deductability of the IRA contributions in the tax-deferral scheme ( Traditional IRA contributions ) and also for the tax free scheme ( Roth IRA ) contributions . I.e. : you may be limited as to how much of your Traditional IRA contribution you can deduct ( but you can always contribute ) , but with Roth - you may be limited as to how much you can contribute . However , after 2010 , conversion from Traditional to Roth is not limited , so there 's a <URL> that allows contributing to Traditional IRA a non-deductible amount and then converting it to Roth . Limits are for totals Keep in mind that the limits ( $ 17500 , $ 51K and $ 5500 that I 've mentioned ) are for totals for both schemes . I.e. : If you contributed $ 5500 to a Traditional IRA - you have $ 0 ( ZERO ) left to contribute to a Roth IRA . If you contributed $ 10000 to a 401 ( k ) on job A , and you also have a second job B - you only have $ 7500 left allowed to be contributed on job B . If the job B match is more generous - you may have lost some of the potential match . That happens frequently when people switch jobs after maxing out their 401k at the previous job with inferior matching .
This is a <URL> Generally , you 're writing that long dated one at the money , and buying the short dated one out of the money . The maximum amount that can be made is if the stock breaks out strongly to the upside , and you keep the upfront credit minus whatever small amount it took to buy the April puts back . You can also make money if it breaks strongly to the downside , but only if the credit when you opened your positions was more than $ 10 . Example : Scenario ( A ) you sold the April $ 600 put at $ 12 and bought the March $ 590 put at $ 1 , for a net credit of $ 11/share or $ 1100 . Scenario ( B ) you sold the April put at $ 8 and bought the March put at $ 2 for a net credit of $ 6/share or $ 600 . Now say the stock falls to $ 500 by the time of that march expiration . You 'd make $ 90/share on the march put , and lose $ 100/share on the April put ( or a little more ; but that deep in the money , there wo n't be much premium on it ) . That 's a loss of $ 10/share , or - $ 1000 . So : Scenario A : $ 1100 credit - $ 1000 loss = $ 100 profit Scenario B : $ 600 credit - $ 1000 loss = - $ 400 loss I make a point of pointing this out because in that article I linked to the fact that your upfront credit needs to be greater than the strike spread in order to profit to the downside is not clearly mentioned .
In the UK the bank owns it for all the reasons you give . But if the bank ever asks for it back you should cut it in two before giving it back , as you can never be 100 % that it IS the bank that is asking for it .
The sentence you quoted does not apply in the case where you sell the stock at a loss . In that case , you recognize zero ordinary income , and a capital loss ( opposite of a gain ) for the loss . Reference : <URL>
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
You 're in an area where a professional advice is a must . It is not only the taxes and reporting , but also an issue of international taxation . US is very aggressive towards holdings in foreign lands . The tax rates for income from foreign corporations are higher than domestic , with less available deductions and credits , and less ability to avoid double taxation . Get a good EA/CPA licensed in your state , who 's proficient in working with Canadians and the US-Canadian tax treaty . Remember , that after reporting all the taxes - there are additional forms for you to file : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and possibly a bunch of others ( form <URL> specific for Canadians , for example ) . Welcome to the US . You 're a foreigner , its a crime here . As a punishment , you 'll have to author a small book ( not kidding , my tax return was close to 100 pages at some point , more than Mitt Romney 's , and I 'm no millionaire ... ) every year .
end question
start question
Can I be refunded the custom duties I already paid to import a product ?
My French is very rusty and <URL> is in French only . But with my rusty French I could n't find any information that would suggest that they actually do refunds . From my experience ( with other countries , not France ) , once a private person pays the VAT/customs - they 're non-refundable ( unless you 're a tourist that is and can claim refund ) .
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
Several things to do : Change your bank . $ 2 for a check ? Why ?? When shopping for a new bank : ask for a free checking account . College students can get free checking in almost any bank . At least the first box of checks will be free , which will give you enough checks for the next several years ( I 'm still not half done with the box I got from WaMu 5 years ago ) . Check out your neighborhood credit union . Most of them have free checking and free checks for students as well . If still no luck - check online check printing services , they 'll send you a box for less than $ 25 , that 's for sure . <URL> for example ( 1 box - $ 7 ) . Also , you can use banks ' bill-pay service for any check you write , if you know the address of the person , the amount and the sum a couple of days ahead of time . That should cover rent , and probably most of your other checks .
Yes , somebody could buy the shares , receive the dividend , and then sell the shares back . However , the price he would get when he sells the shares back is , ignoring other reasons for the price to change , exactly the amount he paid minus the dividend .
I am trying to come up with the equation which will give me the total interest to be paid on something given a fixed interest rate with a fixed payment for a given period of time . given all of the known variables : Total Due Fixed Monthly Payment Fixed Interest Rate ( % of Remaining ) Number of Months Total Interest paid = ( fixed monthly payment * number of months ) - Initial balance Example : Total Due $ 20,000 for a car loan Fixed Monthly Payment : $ 572.85 Fixed Interest Rate ( % of Remaining ) 2.0 % Number of Months 36 ( 3 years ) Total interest paid = ( 572.85 * 36 ) -20,000 = 20,622.66 -20,000 = 622.66 Using the mehod using Impt in Excel and summing the results $ 622.66
No , there is no threshold above which electronic payment of estimated taxes is required of individuals ; but corporations might be subject to different rules . Electronic payment is encouraged since whether the estimated payment was made in timely fashion , or whether the post office lost the piece of mail or postmarked it the next day etc. are no longer an issue , but electronic payment is not required of individuals at any level of estimated tax payment .
Yes , if it 's an American style option . American style options may be exercised at any time prior to expiration ( even if they 're not in-the-money ) . Generally , you are required to deliver or accept delivery of the underlying by the beginning of the next trading day . If you are short , you may be chosen by the clearinghouse to fulfill the exercise ( a process called " assignment " ) . Because the clearinghouse is the counter-party to every options trade , you can be assigned even if the specific person who purchased the option you wrote did n't exercise , but someone else who holds a long position did . Similarly , you might not be assigned if that person did exercise . The clearinghouse randomly chooses a brokerage to fulfill an assignment , and the brokerage will randomly choose an individual account . If you 're going to be writing options , especially using spreads , you need to have a plan ahead of time on what to do if one of your legs gets assigned . This is more likely to happen just before a dividend payment , if the payment is more than the remaining time value .
Speaking from experience , yes ( this was 9 years ago though and may have changed due to stricter laws ) . I lived in London and was moving to NYC and wanted to have a functioning bank account upon arrival . I banked in London with HSBC and asked them if they could set me up . They connected me with the right people in the US and after many forms I had a fully functional US bank account with a foreign address and without having a social security number - and I was ( am ) just your average person . You will most likely not be able to get a credit card through them because of lack of credit history ( unless you are ridiculously rich or go for a secured credit card ) , but a debit card should be possible . * My advice is to talk to your local bank and see if they can help you , although it will help if they operate in the US . Good luck ! * I have heard from various expats that American Express may be willing to issue cards in the states based on their existing relation with clients in other countries , but I digress . If you have an Amex in Switzerland or Sweden I would recommend talking to them .
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
You 're a partnership . You should ask the money to be paid to the partnership . You 'll have to fill partnership income tax return ( form 1065 ) and each of you will get a K-1 schedule with your own personal portion of the income . For example , you 're Adam , Ben and Clara . You work together on a project and are being paid . You get a check for $ 300 issued to " Adam , Ben and Clara , DBA ABC Partnership " . You do n't have to have a DBA , it just makes it easier to show you as a single entity . You then deposit the check to an account you set up for your partnership , and from that account you transfer $ 100 to each of you . Year end , you file form 1065 , showing $ 300 income , and attach K-1 for each of the partners showing $ 100 income . That $ 100 income will flow to your individual tax returns . The overhead here is setting up a partnership account , potentially making a DBA , and filing the extra tax return . That 's the proper way to do it , especially if it is something you 're going to do regularly . For a one-time thing , one of you can get paid , report it as income on his/her Schedule C , and issue 1099 to the rest of you for your parts , and deduct the amount as his/her expense . Here , the overhead is Schedule C for each of you ( instead of Schedule E if handling it as a partnership ) , extra 1099 forms ( instead of 1065 and K-1s ) , and a risk of one partner defrauding the others ( depends on how much you trust each other ) . With proper documentation , each of these is equally legal , and tax-wise the costs are the same ( i.e. : either way you pay the same taxes ) . With partnership the overhead is a bit more expensive ( DBA +1065 extra cost ) , but in the long term it will make your life easier if you do this kind of thing regularly . You may want to consider setting up your partnership as a LLC/LLP ( depending on what your State allows ) , but that would require State paperwork and potentially more fees .
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
Maybe there 's more to this story , because as written , your sister seems , well , a little irrational . Is it possible that the bank will try to cheat you and demand that you pay a loan again that you 've already paid off ? Or maybe not deliberately cheat you , but make a mistake and lose track of the fact that you paid ? Sure , it 's POSSIBLE . But if you 're going to agonize about that , what about all the other possible ways that someone could cheat you ? What if you go to a store , hand over your cash for the purchase , and then the clerk insists that you never gave him any cash ? What if you buy a car and it turns out to be stolen ? What if you buy insurance and when you have a claim the insurance company refuses to pay ? What if someone you 've never met or even heard of before suddenly claims that you are the father of her baby and demands child support ? Etc etc. . Realistically , banks are fanatical about record-keeping . Their business is pretty much all about record-keeping . Mistakes like this are very rare . And a big business like a bank is unlikely to blatantly cheat you . They can and do make millions of dollars legally . Why should they break the law and risk paying huge fines and going to prison for a few hundred dollars ? They may give you a lousy deal , like charge you outrageous overdraft fees and pay piddling interest on your deposit , but they 're not going to lie about how much you owe . They just do n't . I suggest that you not live your life in fear of all the might-be 's . Take reasonable steps to protect yourself and get on with it . Read contracts before you sign , even if the other person gets impatient while you sit there reading . ESPECIALLY if the other person insists that you sign without reading . When you pay off a loan , you should get a piece of paper from the bank saying the loan has been paid . Stuff this piece of paper in a filing cabinet and keep it for years and years . Get a copy of your credit report periodically and make sure that there are no errors on it , like incorrect loan balances . I check mine once every year or two . Some people advise checking it every couple of months . It all depends how nervous you are and how much time you want to spend on it . Then get on with your life . Has your sister had some bad experience with loans in the past ? Or has she never borrowed money and she 's just confused about how it works ? That 's why I wonder if there 's more to the story , if there 's some basis for her fears .
No , but you should be able to eventually claim a UK state pension built up during your stay in the UK . Note for a full state pension you need 30 years contributions and only full years count . Note there is also the Additional State Pension based on your NI contributions . There is no fixed amount like the basic State Pension . The following page might be of help <URL>
Within reason , I find that it 's usually possible to find out the full holdings a mutual fund has . What I mean by this is that you ca n't go and find out a perfectly up-to-date measurement , on demand , all the time . However , you can go and pull a fund 's prospectus and it will disclose ( a ) its investment strategy , and ( b ) its holdings . For example , I own some holdings in SHRAX , which is a mutual fund . You can find its holdings as of Sept. 30 , 2013 <URL> . You can find something similar -- just a different format -- for VNQ , <URL> ( I do n't own this one ... yet . ) I get what you 're saying about the ' secret ' sauce vs. full disclosure concept . But I 'm pretty sure that only listing the top 5 or 10 holdings has more to do simplifying information . By the math , movements in the largest holdings will have the biggest impact on the change in value of a single share of the fund overall . It may even be a legal requirement ( at least in the US ) to make disclosures about the full holdings available every quarter . Maybe someone else can speak to that .
What you should do is re-characterize contributions from being a Traditional IRA contributions to Roth IRA contributions . Call your broker that holds the account and ask how to do that . Note : re-characterize means you do n't move the money to Roth account , you retroactively say that it was a Roth account to begin with . By re-characterization you 're saying that your contribution , and all the earnings on it , are Roth from the start . This is different from moving ( rolling over ) , and moving is not advised if you have significant Rollover IRA sums . If your MAGI is over the limit for Roth IRA as well ( see <URL> ) then you keep it as non-deductible IRA contribution and report it on form 8606 . In this case your wife 's Roth IRA contribution should be recharacterized as traditional and reported as non-deductible on form 8606 as well .
Yes , some mutual funds may have the expense ratio decline as the fund gains more assets . Look at the history of the Vanguard 500 Index as an example over the years where it used to be about 20 basis points but has dropped a few as the assets have gotten very large .
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
Yes , you can still make a 2013 Roth IRA contribution before the tax filing deadline . But be sure to check the income limitations for making Roth IRA contributions . High earners ( defined differently for different filing status ) are not permitted to make Roth IRA contributions . If you are expecting to get a refund on your 2013 tax return , you can even file early and use the refund toward your 2013 Roth IRA contribution . Note that Roth IRA contributions are not declared on your income tax return and so it is not necessary to file an amended return after making the Roth contribution ( see this <URL> , pointed out by @JoeTaxpayer , for details on how the IRS knows that you have made a Roth IRA contribution ) . Indeed , if the refund does not come in time and you choose to not make a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 after all ( or decide to make a reduced contribution ) , no paperwork needs to be done by you . You can also make Traditional IRA contributions after filing your tax return but before the deadline , and use the tax refund from the 2013 tax return towards the 2013 IRA contributions . However , if the tax refund is not received in time , and you choose to reduce your 2013 Traditional IRA contribution ( or not make it at all ) , then an amended return is required ( and you owe tax or will get a reduced refund ) because you have already declared that you will be making a Traditional IRA contribution ( and deducted that amount ) when you filed your income tax return early and computed that you overpaid and will be getting a refund .
You 'll have to talk to your mortgage lender about that , I doubt there is a ' generic ' answer to it . I do currently have a house in another country that I 'm paying a mortgage on , but the lender was n't too happy with that . They still did accept it , but the bigger problem for me is refinancing it as an investment property when you 're not in the country . Also , it probably depends on what your plans are - are you planning to go abroad for a few years , then return ? Emigrate for good ? Rent out the place while you 're gone ? As I can attest to , even with a local agent a house 5000 miles away can be more of a pain in the posterior than you 'd expect it to be .
Sorry , even if you never file a claim for <URL> , you do n't get your premiums back . So , yes , if you paid into EI and never filed a claim , your contributions are , as you put it , " wasted " -- insofar that your premiums provided no direct benefit to you . However , your premiums may have provided a benefit to society , perhaps even your previous colleagues . Yet , some would point out that a good chunk of EI premiums are likely wasted on excessive administration of the program itself . That 's government . A couple of cases I 'm aware of where you may be refunded some of the EI premiums paid are : if you <URL> in a particular year ( for instance , if you had two jobs and each withheld , you may go over the annual premium limit ) , or if you paid premiums when you would n't actually be eligible to collect , e.g. if you were <URL> . Many people do n't realize if you work for a family member you 're ineligible to claim . Meaning , a legal way to avoid paying into the EI system altogether is to run your own business . Of course , you wo n't be able to file an EI claim if your business evaporates overnight . Other kinds of claims unavailable to those who do n't pay into EI include <URL> . . although they recently made some <URL> for some special benefits . * except in the province of Quebec , where there is a separate <URL> that also covers the self-employed .
end question
start question
How to calculate interest tax deduction for a mortgage ?
You are correct , but I can explain what they 're trying to do . They do n't need to ask for your income because they ask for your tax bracket instead . The default value assumes 25 % marginal tax rate . The amount you save is really calculated as : So if you pay $ 10k in interest this year and you 're in the 25 % bracket , you save $ 2500 on your tax bill . That is why the calculator does n't ask for your income . However , this is n't perfectly accurate , because if you are on the edge of a tax bracket then your deduction will actually change your marginal tax rate . This is a little more complicated scenario . Let 's say you are a single filer making $ 85k per year and are paying $ 10k in interest . You 'd put 28 % tax bracket into the calculator , and it would tell you that you are saving : But actually this is n't right , because you 're only paying 28 % on income beyond $ 83600 ( the lower limit of the 28 % bracket ) and you 're paying % 25 on income between $ 34500 and $ 83600 ) . The accurate calculation has to take this into account : So you may actually save less if you are near the edge of a tax bracket than what that calculator is estimating . In my mind , it would make a lot more sense for them to ask for your income , for two reasons : It leads to a more accurate calculation . Most people know their income , but may not know their marginal tax rate .
If you drive from your home to work site you can not deduct the mileage because it is considered a commuting expense . Now if you have an office ( not a home office ) and drive to the office and then on to the client site it would be deductible . Whether you buy or lease a car for the purpose wo n't have any affect on the deduct-ability ( assuming sole prop or single per LLC ) .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
The mortgage commitment letter you describe will not help you because of it 's expiration before you need it . From a legal point of view , you have nothing in writing that covers your needs ( a loan on your closing date ) . I 've heard of lenders giving out letters of pre-approval , which is still subject to final approval . I 've also heard that lenders are more frequently re-pulling credit 1 or 2 days before closing to make sure nothing has changed and denying the loan if there has been any change even if they had previously approved the loan . I 'm not sure there is any letter you can get prior to your actual loan that guarantees you will get a loan on the day in question .
I have a very hard time believing you pay 60 % of gross . Otherwise , I believe you 're right in the way this works : Suppose you make $ 100k and pay 25 % of that in taxes . 100,000 * .25 = 25,000 But if you spend $ 1,000 pretax , then it 's as if you were paid $ 99,000 99,000 * .25 = $ 24,750 So the difference is $ 250 . Which is the same as that $ 1,000 * .25 .
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
" I asked my realtor , but she recommends to go with just one banker ( her friend ) , and not to do any rate shopping . " You need a new realtor . Anyone who would offer such advice is explicitly stating they are not advocating on your behalf . I 'd do the rate shopping first . When you make an offer , once it 's accepted , time becomes critical . The seller expects you to go to closing in so many days after signing the P&amp;S . The realtor is specifically prohibited from pushing a particular lender on you . She should know better . In response to comment - Rate Shopping can be as simple as making a phone call , and having a detailed conversation . Jasper 's list can be conveyed verbally . Prequalification is the next step , where a bank actually writes a letter indicating they have a high confidence you will qualify for the loan .
This is quite possibly a tactic to attract new clients . . ICICI is one of the banks with a small presence in Canada . There are also banks like Tangerine and PC Financial that are aggressively trying to get new clients to switch over from the big 5 banks . At the time of writing , for a limited time , PC Financial is paying 2.5 % interest on savings accounts versus 1.4 % for a 1 year GIC .
Any interest [ even Rs 1 ] received to from Savings Bank is taxable [ provided you total income including interest is taxable ] . If the Amount of Interest is less than Rs 10,000 / - Bank need not deduct tax at source . This does not mean you are not liable to pay tax . If you total income is less than Rs 5,00,000 and interest income less than Rs 10,000 ; you can indicate you savings interest to your employer who would deduct tax and you need not file any return . Refer to <URL> If the total tax obligation that is not paid by 15th March is less than Rs 10,000 you can pay the tax online without any penalty as " Self Assessment Tax " upto 31-July . <URL> There is / was a proposal to exempt Interest from Savings Account [ and not from Fixed Deposits or Recurring Deposits ] upto Rs 10,000 . This is applicable from 1-Apr-2013 and would be for current financial year . <URL>
From the Joint Committee on Taxation 's <URL> , page 220 : Congress concluded that rules that encourage filing separate returns give rise to unnecessary complexity and place an unwarranted burden on the administration of the tax system . Although this section of the document is not about IRAs , this act altered the IRA contribution rules among other things , and that statement appears to be the general philosophy : the government just does n't like married couples filing separately , and essentially tries to punish them for doing so . Note that the same income limit applies for deductible contributions to Traditional IRAs , if either spouse is covered by an employer-provided plan ( see <URL> ) . <URL> suggests one such incentive for the IRA in particular : " The rationale : the government does n't want to give you a tax break in case your spouse is high-income " . If one spouse is earning a lot -- for instance , over the Roth IRA limit -- and the spouses are living together , the other spouse is presumably reaping some of the benefits of those high earnings , so should not be allowed to benefit from the Roth , which is supposed to be unavailable to high earners . Also , if one spouse had earnings over the Roth IRA limit , they could possibly use financial sleight-of-hand to shift some of the income to the other spouse , thus enabling both to contribute . I do n't see that these reasons really justify the drastic nature of the penalty , but I think that 's about as much logic as we can hope for in the tax code .
I made this <URL> for analysing such question on renting vs buying . If you 're simply looking at a $ 1500/month mortgage ( for say 20 years ) vs $ 1500/month in rent then there is no break-even unless property depreciates 10 % pa , in which case either scenario leaves you with nothing after the term of the mortgage . The screenshot below shows an idealised 100 % mortgage for $ 230,000 costing $ 1503 per month with 2 % property appreciation . After 20 years the buyer owns the property while the renter has nothing . <URL> Edit further to OP providing property price A property price of $ 300,000 at say 6 % <URL> - equivalent to 5.84 % nominal annual interest compounded monthly - will cost $ 2,121.88 per month for a 20 year 100 % mortgage , ( neglecting fees and duty ) . To make this a fair comparison , say the renter also utilises $ 2,121.88 per month by paying $ 1500 rent and putting the remaining $ 621.88 into a savings account or fund at a deposit ( or return ) rate of 4 % effective annual interest . Taking into account property appreciation at 2 % per annum and rent inflation at 2 % per annum , the scenarios play out as shown below . After 20 years when the term of the mortgage is finished the buyer owns the house , now valued at $ 445,784 while the renter has $ 120,348 in savings . Lets suppose they both continue to utilise $ 2121.88 for the next 20 years . The buyer can put it all into savings while the renter has to continue paying rent . After 40 years the buyer has $ 1,436,966 in savings and appreciated property value while the renter has $ 66,136 in savings . <URL> <URL>
The product you seek is called a fixed immediate annuity . You also want to be clear it 's inflation adjusted . In the US , the standard fixed annuity for a 40year old male ( this is the lowest age I find on the site I use ) has a 4.6 % return . $ 6000 / yr means one would pay about $ 130,000 for this . The cost to include the inflation adder is about 50 % , from what I recall . So close to $ 200,000 . This is an insurance product , by the way , and you need to contact a local provider to get a better quote .
Short answer : No . Unemployment insurance is not income . It will not be counted towards your mortgage . It is definitely not seen as " more fixed and stable " than a paycheck - it is an indication of employment stress , and prevents the banks from working up projected earnings for you going forward . It 's great your wife is getting a job later in the year . Employment , however , is not the only factor taken into account by the banks , and unless your wife has a high-earning capacity degree in a stable field - such as medicine - you 'll likely need other things on your side to swing a mortgage quickly after she starts working .
It is the maximum amount of tax-free savings you can contribute towards your RRSP in a given year . Any excess contributions are not tax deductible .
As always , it depends . Variable rates , over the long haul are almost always lower ; and result in an overall faster repayment . In any specific timespan , however , it is generally possible to pick a point where a smart lock-in would have been a better decision , but these points are only apparent in retrospect . Given the current rate climate , where there seems to be a general consensus that rates will rise , a lock-in would seem prudent . But that will only really be proven several years from now . My tip on this , like most other investing advise , is " do what you need to do so that you can sleep at night " . If you want or need some sense of security , then by all means , lock in . If you want the absolute lowest rate , and have some room to maneuver in your finances , you might be willing to take the risk .
The best way to estimate taxes is <URL> by Intuit . Although it files with TurboTax , which does not support F1 tax filing , you may want to enter your details just to see how much you could expect as a return -- just do n't file your taxes with it .
You are correct , but I can explain what they 're trying to do . They do n't need to ask for your income because they ask for your tax bracket instead . The default value assumes 25 % marginal tax rate . The amount you save is really calculated as : So if you pay $ 10k in interest this year and you 're in the 25 % bracket , you save $ 2500 on your tax bill . That is why the calculator does n't ask for your income . However , this is n't perfectly accurate , because if you are on the edge of a tax bracket then your deduction will actually change your marginal tax rate . This is a little more complicated scenario . Let 's say you are a single filer making $ 85k per year and are paying $ 10k in interest . You 'd put 28 % tax bracket into the calculator , and it would tell you that you are saving : But actually this is n't right , because you 're only paying 28 % on income beyond $ 83600 ( the lower limit of the 28 % bracket ) and you 're paying % 25 on income between $ 34500 and $ 83600 ) . The accurate calculation has to take this into account : So you may actually save less if you are near the edge of a tax bracket than what that calculator is estimating . In my mind , it would make a lot more sense for them to ask for your income , for two reasons : It leads to a more accurate calculation . Most people know their income , but may not know their marginal tax rate .
The name on the Form 1098 that the mortgage lender sends you . That 's the SSN and payments reported to the IRS .
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
end question
start question
Can my employer limit my maximum 401k contribution amount ( below the IRS limit ) ?
Congratulations on your raise ! Is my employer allowed to impose their own limit on my contributions that 's different from the IRS limit ? No . Is it something they can limit at will , or are they required to allow me to contribute up to the IRS limit ? The employer can not limit you , you can contribute up to the IRS limit . Your mistake is in thinking that the IRS limit is 17K for everyone . That is not so . You 're affected by the HCE rules ( Highly Compensated Employees ) . These rules define certain employees as HCE ( if their salary is significantly higher than that of the rest of the employees ) , and limit the ability of the HCE 's to deposit money into 401k , based on the deposits made by the rest of the employees . Basically it means that while the overall maximum is indeed 17K , your personal ( and other HCE 's in your company ) is lowered down because those who are not HCE 's in the company do n't deposit to 401k enough . You can read more details and technical explanation about the HCE rules in <URL> and in this <URL> .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
For instance , they are reporting my income to California even though I am not a U.S. resident . But you are . The US does n't have a notion of physical presence , you 're resident by mere citizenship . In case you did n't know that before - US citizens and residents ( those who are not citizens , but pass the physical presence/green card test ) are taxed on their worldwide income . Where you are might matter for various tax treaties , but that only if you 're not a citizen of that country as well . You 're resident of California if that was the last State of residency before you left the US , and California taxes worldwide income as well . However , there are certain provisions that may allow you to become CA ' non-resident ' , check it out with a professional ( CPA/EA familiar with the CA FTB residency rules ) . In that case you 'll only pay taxes on CA sourced income ( your salary ) , but not other income ( interest in the foreign bank ) . Now they are asking for an I-9 . Every US employer must . How do I straighten this situation out ? Seems be heading for trouble . If by trouble you mean paying your taxes , then there 's nothing to straighten out . But do consult with a US-licensed CPA/EA who provides services in the country you 're located at ( US embassies some times provide listings of those , if not - there 's always Google ) . There might be some additional issues you 're unaware of that might affect you ( FBAR , for example , various exclusions and deductions , additional reporting requirements ... ) . Chris mentioned dual taxation - that is a very real and valid concern . Even though you 're taxed by the US on your US-sourced salary , being a resident in another country subjects you to the tax laws of that country . They might want to tax you on that money as well , and you may have to pay taxes twice if there 's no protection in a tax treaty against that . Note about @Paul 's answer : your personal tax return may indeed include certain forms that will reduce your tax in the US , either through the foreign income exclusion ( form 2555 , an audit red flag ) , foreign tax credit ( form 1116 ) or a combination of both . But your question was about the employer . To the employer - you 're a California resident , and the employer will treat you as such . What you personally do with your 1040 is not their problem or concern , its yours . I strongly suggest you to get a professional advice on that ( and if you do n't want to pay the CPA and instead learn it yourself - that 's fine , but when the audit time comes it will cost you much more to hire representation anew instead of having the CPA/EA who advised you ahead of time defend his advice ) .
Make sure your spouse qualifies as a first-time homebuyer as well , if you are married and buying the property together . Each of you may take $ 10,000 from your traditional IRAs . Source : Link in your question - <URL>
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
Yes . You can convert an unlimited amount from a traditional IRA to a Roth , and pay the tax to the extent any of the account was n't yet taxed . It does not count against any annual deposit limits .
No , sorry . A change of 401 ( k ) administrator is not an out , otherwise many would flee a bad plan . I 'd suggest you only deposit up to the match , but use an IRA if you 'd like to save more . A plan with high fees can easily negate the tax benefits and then some .
It appears that the <URL> in $ 6,500 as long as the combined income is greater than the total contributions for both spouses . Spousal IRAs If you file a joint return , you and your spouse can each make IRA contributions even if only one of you has taxable compensation . The amount of your combined contributions ca n't be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return . It does n't matter which spouse earned the compensation . Examples : Sarah , age 52 , is married with no taxable compensation for 2012 . She and her husband reported taxable compensation of $ 60,000 on their 2013 joint return . Sarah may contribute $ 6,500 to her IRA for 2013 ( $ 5,500 plus an additional $ 1,000 contribution for age 50 and over ) .
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
You are not allowed to take a routine 401 ( k ) withdrawal each year . There are specific reasons that you might be allowed to take a withdrawal and what you 're proposing does n't fit into those categories .
There are certain allowable reasons to withdraw money from a 401K . The desire to free your money from a " bad " plan is not one of them . A rollover is a special type of withdrawal that is only available after one leaves their current employer . So as long as you stay with your current company , you can not rollover . [ Exception : if you are over age 59.5 ] One option is to talk to HR , see if they can get a expansion of offerings . You might have some suggestions for mutual funds that you would like to see . The smaller the company the more likely you will have success here . That being said , there is some research to support having few choices . Too many choices intimidates people . It 's quite popular to have " target funds " That is funds that target a certain retirement year . Being that I will be 50 in 2016 , I should invest in either a 2030 or 2035 fund . These are a collection of funds that rebalances the investment as they age . The closer one gets to retirement the more goes into bonds and less into stocks . However , I think such rebalancing is not as smart as the experts say . IMHO is almost always better off heavily invested in equity funds . So this becomes a second option . Invest in a Target fund that is meant for younger people . In my case I would put into a 2060 or even 2065 target . As JoeTaxpayer pointed out , even in a plan that has high fees and poor choices one is often better off contributing up to the match . Then one would go outside and contribute to an individual ROTH or IRA ( income restrictions may apply ) , then back into the 401K until the desired amount is invested . You could always move on to a different employer and ask some really good questions about their 401K . Which leads me back to talking with HR . With the current technology shortage , making a few tweaks to the 401K , is a very cheap way to make their employees happy . If you can score a 1099 contracting gig , you can do a SEP which allows up to a whopping 53K per year . No match but with typically higher pay , sometimes overtime , and a high contribution limit you can easily make up for it .
I rolled mine over from the company I was at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I needed to setup a traditional IRA . There is paperwork your old jobs can provide you . I had to put in some mailing addresses , some account numbers and turn them in . My broker received it , I chose what I wanted to invest it in and that was that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoiding penalties is to have your past employers send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
The Limit Order are matched based on amount and time . The orders are listed Highest to Lowest on the Buy Side . The orders are listed Lowest to Highest on the Sell Side . If there are 2 Sell orders for same amount the order which is first in time [ fractions of milliseconds ] is first . The about is the example as to how the orders would look like on any exchange . Now the highest price the buyer is ready to pay is 20.21 and the lowest price a seller is ready to sell for is 20.25 . Hence there is no trade . Now if a new Buy order comes in at 20.25 , it matches with the sell and the deal is made . If a new Buy order comes in at 20.30 , it still matches at 20.25 . Similarly if a Sell order come in at 20.21 , it matches and a deal is made . If a Sell order come in at 20.11 , it still matches 20.21 . Incase of market order , with the above example if there is a Buy order , it would match with the lowest sell order at 20.25 , if there is not enough quantity , it would match the remaining quantity to the next highest at 20.31 and continue down . Similarly if there is a Sell market order , the it would match to the maximum a seller is ready to buy , ie 20.21 , if there is not sufficient buy quantity at 20.21 , it will match with next for 20.19 If say there are new buy order at 20.22 and sell orders at 20.24 , these will sit first the the above queue to be matched . In your above example the Lowest Sell order was at 20.10 at time t1 and hence any buy order after time t1 for amount 20.10 or greater would match to this and the price would be 20.10 . However if the Buy order was first ie at t1 there was a buy order for 20.21 and then at time later than t1 , there is a sell order for say 20.10 [ amount less than or equal to 20.21 ] it would match for 20.21 . Essentially the market looks at who was the first to sell at lower price or who was the first to buy at higher price and then decide the trade . Edit [ To Clarify xyz ] : Say if there is an Sell order at $ 10 Qty 100 . There is a buyer who is willing to pay Max $ 20 and is looking for Qty 500 . Your key assumption that the Buyer does not know the current SELL price of $ 10 is incorrect . Now there are multiple things , the Buyer knows the lowest Sell order is at $ 10 , he can put a matching Buy order at $ 10 Qty 100 , and say $ 11 Qty 100 etc. . This is painful . Second , lets say he puts a Buy order at $ 10 Qty 100 , by the time the order hits the system someone else has put the trade at $ 10 and his order is fulfilled . So this buyer has to keep looking at booking and keep making adjustments , if its a large order , it would be extremely difficult and frustrating for this Buyer . Hence the logic of giving preference . The later Buy order says ... The Max I can pay is $ 20 , match eveything at the current price and get the required shares .
You 've laid out a strategy for deciding that the top of the market has passed and then realizing some gains before the market drops too far . Regardless of whether this strategy is good at accomplishing its goal , it can not by itself maximize your long-term profits unless you have a similar strategy for deciding that the bottom of the market has passed . Even if you sell at the perfect time at the top of the market , you can still lose lots of money by buying at the wrong time at the bottom . People have been trying to like this for centuries , and on average it does n't work out all that much better than just plopping some money into the market each week and letting it sit there for 40 years . So the real question is : what is your investment time horizon ? If you need your money a year from now , well then you should n't be in the stock market in the first place . But if you have to have it in the market , then your plan sounds like a good one to protect yourself from losses . If you do n't need your money until 20 years from now , though , then every time you get in and out of the market you 're risking sacrificing all your previous " smart " gains with one mistimed trade . Sure , just leaving your money in the market can be psychologically taxing ( cf. 2008-2009 ) , but I guarantee that ( a ) you 'll eventually make it all back ( cf. 2010-2014 ) and ( b ) you wo n't " miss the top " or " miss the bottom " , since you 're not doing any trading .
Edit : What is a reasonable and/or customary time frame to allow them to keep a guest ? " Whats customary " - is relative to interpretation . So if you 're just trying to be nice I 'd say 10 days or two weeks is enough . In your state a guest at a lodge , motel , or hotel is defined as someone who stays for less then 31 days . " Permanent guest " , any person who rents and occupies a guest room in a lodging establishment for a period of thirty-one days or more ; Source - <URL> Additional information : If there is no agreement about guests , or who can occupy the property then you may be unable to force the tenant to restrict them from having a guest stay there . However here is some information that might help you gain leverage in the situation - <URL> If the guest is involved in criminal activity on the property you can then restrict the tenant from allowing that guest back on the property . Also if you have a " No Smoking " policy and the guest is a smoker you might also be able to use that as leverage . I suggest consulting a lawyer in your area for legal information . Some additional resources : <URL> - You might be able to get a more detailed answer from the forums here . <URL> - You can search Missouri Statues here .
It is the maximum amount of tax-free savings you can contribute towards your RRSP in a given year . Any excess contributions are not tax deductible .
Yes , in fact , if your MAGI is $ 220K or over as a couple , you are not able to open the account . Having a relative with lower income is a good way to set one up . As MrChrister commented , the Coverdell is more limited , only $ 2000/yr , dropping to $ 500 if congress does n't act . ( limit was $ 2000 in 2012 , to clarify ) Funds must be disbursed by age 30 to the beneficiary . But - the investment options are as varied as any other investment accounts , with a 529 , the choices for investment are quite limited . In a 529 , unused funds can be used for a changed beneficiary within the same extended family , not so with Coverdell .
If you are a pay in full card user , the math runs pretty simple . Say you earn $ 48K , or $ 4K/mo . You try to run most expenses through the card to get whatever rewards , so the most ' regular ' spending can be will be $ 2K or so ( mortgage/rent usually ca n't be charged ) . If we want the $ 2K to average a 10 % usage , you ideally want open credit lines to total $ 20K . You can have as much as $ 4K on the bill and still be at 20 % utilization . The above creates a ' rule of thumb ' goal of about half of one 's salary as the goal for available credit . With a caution to readers , this is not advice to carry that amount in outstanding debt . If the credit agencies did n't look at utilization , 10 % of one 's salary would be enough in most cases . Rules of thumb are meant as a starting point . Some people avoid cards for whatever reason . One card with a $ 2000 line might be enough to rent a car and hotel , and be used for little else . Others play the reward game , and this advice is geared toward that kind of heavy user .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
Having money held from one paycheck hardly counts as being covered by a retirement plan in my book ! It 's not your book that counts , it 's the Congress ' book called the Internal Revenue Code . No , you can not rescind a contribution after the fact . Maybe during the year you can do something with employer balancing it out , but not after the year is closed . ( That , by the way , is different for IRAs where you can actually do re-characterization until the tax day of the next year )
end question
start question
Can I contribute to a SEP-IRA and a Solo 401 ( k ) for the same business ?
You can contribute to both but the total contribution is capped : More than one plan . If you contribute to a defined contribution plan ( defined in chapter 4 ) , annual additions to an account are limited to the lesser of $ 53,000 or 100 % of the participant 's compensation . When you figure this limit , you must add your contributions to all defined contribution plans maintained by you . Because a SEP is considered a defined contribution plan for this limit , your contributions to a SEP must be added to your contributions to other defined contribution plans you maintain . Source : <URL> on page 6 .
No . Borrowing is not allowed , but if you take a withdrawal , you have 60 days to deposit into another IRA account . This effectively creates a 60 day loan . Not what you 're really looking for . If you take this withdrawal and re-deposit to new account within 60 days , no problem . If not , you owe tax on the untaxed amount as well as a 10 % penalty . This comes from IRS ' Publication 590 , I have the document memorized by substance , not page number .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
You do n't even have to participate in a 401k plan ; as long as an employer offers you a 401k plan , that " Retirement " box will be checked on your 2014 W-2 that your employer will send to you in January 2015 . With regard to deductability of Traditional IRA contributions , that will depend on your Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) for 2014 , your marital status as of December 31 , 2014 , and if you are married , then whether your spouse is covered by a retirement plan and your filing status ( different thresholds for Married Filing Jointly and Married Filing Separately ) .
One representative I spoke to suggested moving the money into a new IRA , making up the difference from my own pocket , and then asking for a rebate a tax time . Will this work ? That 's probably the only thing that will work , and you have to do this ASAP : you have 60 days from the distribution to complete the deposit . Make sure to make up for the withheld 20 % , and deposit into the IRA the full amount , and make sure to give all the relevant information to your tax preparer to ensure you do get the withheld 20 % back as a tax credit . You can check with your current 401k plan if you can deposit there , but in many cases you can not . IRA is a safe bet .
You have two moves , and you must pass the distance test and the time test . From the same <URL> : Distance test : Your move will meet the distance test if your new main job location is at least 50 miles farther from your former home than your old main job location was from your former home . For example , if your old main job location was 3 miles from your former home , your new main job location must be at least 53 miles from that former home . You can use Worksheet 1 to see if you meet this test . Time Test : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Let us assume : you live in City A and work 5 miles away . You thought you had a job 60 miles from City A so you moved to city B . It fell apart after a month you have another job you moved back to City A . The law does n't care about the distance between the new home and the new job , only the distance between the new job and the old home compared to the old home and the old job . Move # 1 : you fail the time test Move # 2 : you might eventually pass the time test if you work 39 of 52 weeks , but what about the distance test . If you had a new job that was close to city B you could eventually claim Move # 1 if you had n't moved . Combining both : If Job # 3 was more than 50 miles farther from house # 1 when compared to job # 1 and house # 1 ; you might have a case to claim some expenses , assuming you eventually worked 39 of 52 weeks . The problem is if the distance is n't far enough you run the risk of the IRS rejecting the entire thing . They would be concerned that somebody could spend a few bucks on a short duration cheap move to city B and then claim all the expenses for a move that was essentially across the street . You would have a hard time proving that the move to City B was intended to be permanent : you never established residency .
There are a lot of unintended consequences of fairly arbitrary IRS guidelines when it comes to 401Ks , they both close and create tons of loopholes and many companies are left to implement their own policy around these laws . Ultimately what you are left with are a lot of random things , interpreted differently by every single company in the country , that are n't directly codified by the IRS or Congress . If you have a choice regarding what brokerage firm manages your 401 ( k ) , then just call around . Be sure to ask the pencil pusher on the phone to double check because they might say " OF COURSE you can get paperless statements it is 2015 " but then when you sign up it becomes " ooohhh sorry due to recent guidelines this kind of account is n't eligible for paperless statements "
You have a number of choices , of course . You can leave it with the current company , if they permit it . If you leave it there , you ca n't make deposits ( so number 2 is out , not an option ) . You can transfer the funds directly to an IRA , no tax consequence , and you are left with the investing choices up to you . This is the preferred choice for most as the IRA cost is usually far less than the costs inside a 401 ( k ) . You can transfer the funds to the new employer 401 ( k ) . This has a number of benefits . 401 ( k ) s offer a bit better level of protection from creditors . The 401 ( k ) allows retirement withdrawals at a separation after age 55 , as compared to the 59-1/2 for the IRA , and last , the 401 ( k ) usually has a borrowing provision . While consensus is that 401 ( k ) loans are ' bad , ' I still believe they are preferable to any retirement withdrawal .
I wrote a brilliant guest post at Do n't Mess With Taxes , titled <URL> . ( Note - this article now reflects 2012 rates . Just updated ) Simply put , it 's an ongoing question of whether your taxes will be higher now than at any point in the future . If you are in the 25 % bracket now , it would take quite of bit of money for your withdrawals to put you in that bracket at retirement . In the case of the IRA , you have the opportunity to convert in any year between now and retirement if your rate that year drops for whatever reason . The simplest case is if you are now in the 25 % bracket . I say go pre-tax , and track , year by year what your withdrawal would be if you retired today . At 15 % , but with a good chance for promotion to the 25 % bracket , start with Roth flavor and then as you hit 25 % , use a combination . This approach would smooth your marginal rate to stay at 15 % . To give you a start to this puzzle , in 2012 , a couple has a $ 11,900 standard deduction along with 2 exemptions of $ 3800 each . This means the first $ 19,500 in an IRA comes out tax free at retirement . If you believe in a 4 % withdrawal rate , you need a retirement account containing $ 500K pretax to generate this much money . This tick up with inflation , 2 years ago , it was $ 18,700 and $ 467K respectively . This is why those who scream " taxes will go up " may be correct , but do you really believe the standard deduction and exemptions will go away ? Edit - and as time passes , and I learn more , new info comes to my attention . The above thoughts not withstanding , there 's an issue of taxation of Social Security benefits . This creates a <URL> which I recently wrote about . A single person with not really too high an income gets thrust into the 46 % bracket . Not a typo , 46.25 % to be exact .
Kudos to you on having money in a retirement account as early as after college . Many people do n't start investing towards retirement until far to late and compound interest makes a major difference in those early years . Ideally , neither withdraw nor borrow from these accounts . Withdrawing from your 403b will incur a 10 % penalty unless you are over the minimum age on top of the normal tax on that income . With a 401K loan you 're putting yourself at risk if you run into a situation where you ca n't pay the loan back of incurring the same penalties as an early withdrawal . <URL> covers the concerns well . In general , you want to view your retirement money as untouchable until the distributions need to start coming in retirement . It 's your future in there . Of course , this does n't help the short term cash need . Do you have money in an emergency fund somewhere ? Could a relative loan you money ? Can you move to a less expensive place in advance and squirrel away some of what would have been your rent cash ? Can you cut back to bare necessities and do the same ? Do you have some nice stuff sitting around that you could sell to make up that needed cash ? Will your current employer pay out unused vacation or are you getting any severance from this situation ? Will you qualify for unemployment ? I other words , think about what you would do to get the money if your retirement accounts were n't there . Then do that - as long as it 's legal and does n't involve running up debt on high interest lines of credit - instead of borrowing against your future .
If you participate in an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401 ( k ) your right to deduct an IRA contribution is phased out once your income reaches a certain level . This is from the IRS website for 2010 : " If either you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan , you may be entitled to only a partial ( reduced ) deduction or no deduction at all , depending on your income and your filing status . Your deduction begins to decrease ( phase out ) when your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount . These amounts vary depending on your filing status . " Here is the link : <URL>
From my friends at <URL> this is the 2012 tax table . This is the table of tax due on taxable income , i.e. the ' bottom line ' of the return after all deductions , credits , etc. . If your taxable income is exactly $ 35,350 , you are " in the 15 % bracket " as the last $ 100 was taxed at 15 % . But , the next $ 100 of income would be taxed at 25 % . Yes , part of the 401 ( k ) process is that you need to be aware of what the tax would have been on the pre-tax 401 ( k ) money . Since a Roth is post-tax money , it does n't change your bracket , only pre-tax 401 ( k ) or Traditional IRA will do that . At a taxable $ 50,000 , you are clearly in the 25 % bracket and would choose your account accordingly . You can see above , the way the tax structure works is progressive . i.e. . The tax on $ 35,350 is fixed at $ 4867.50 and only the amount above this is taxed at 25 % . The next $ 100 or $ 1000 in taxable income wo n't push other income into the higher bracket . Many use the strategy user102008 alluded to , navigating one 's retirement deposits so the pretax account saved them from 25 % income , but does n't drop too far into the 15 % bracket . A mix of Traditional 401 ( k ) , Roth 401 ( k ) , Traditional IRA , and Roth IRA , can help you hit the goal dead-on if you are willing to pay a bit of attention during the year .
<URL> will track flight prices , so you can know when a good time historically is to make a bunch of reservations . Also , Air India has a frequent flier program so I hope you have signed up for it ... you could get free flights once you get enough points ( although I would probably use your points for upgrades to business class ) .
You can contribute to both but the total contribution is capped : More than one plan . If you contribute to a defined contribution plan ( defined in chapter 4 ) , annual additions to an account are limited to the lesser of $ 53,000 or 100 % of the participant 's compensation . When you figure this limit , you must add your contributions to all defined contribution plans maintained by you . Because a SEP is considered a defined contribution plan for this limit , your contributions to a SEP must be added to your contributions to other defined contribution plans you maintain . Source : <URL> on page 6 .
Unfortunately you have to take the deduction in the proper tax year . Your 2015 contribution , even if made in 2016 impacts the taxes you file in April 2016 . The logic allows taxpayers to decide how much to contribute into a IRA or Roth IRA after all the other calculations have been done . Some people are near the cutoffs and ca n't know what makes sense or what is allowed until all the numbers are in . This following suggestion may seem counter-intuitive ; but if you are in a very low tax bracket this year , and expect to be in a very high bracket next year you might consider a Roth IRA for your 2015 contribution . For the low level of taxes you will pay on that $ 5500 now , you can pull all the gains out tax free when you retire , which may be decades from now .
Funds earned and spent before opening a dedicated business account should be classified according to their origination . For example , if your business received income , where did that money go ? If you took the money personally , it would be considered either a ' distribution ' or a ' loan ' to you . It is up to you which of the two options you choose . On the flip side , if your business had an expense that you paid personally , that would be considered either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . If you choose to record these transactions as loans , you can offset them together , so you do n't need two separate accounts , loan to you and loan from you . When the bank account was opened , the initial deposit came from where ? If it came from your personal funds , then it is either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . From the sound of your question , you deposited what remained after the preceding income/expenses . This would , in effect , return the ' loan ' account back to zero , if choosing that route . The above would also be how to record any expenses you may pay personally for the business ( if any ) in the future . Because these transactions were not through a dedicated business bank account , you ca n't record them in Quickbooks as checks and deposits . Instead , you can use Journal Entries . For any income received , you would debit your capital/loan account and credit your income account . For any expenses , you would debit the appropriate expense account and credit your distribution/loan account . Also , if setting up a loan account , you should choose either Current Asset or Current Liability type . The capital contribution and distribution account should be Equity type . Hope this helps !
my taxable income was roughly $ 230,000 in 2012 . Indeed it is relevant . <URL> for deductible IRA contributions is 112K . So no , IRA contribution will not help you reducing your tax bill this year . The deduction phases out starting from AGI limits of $ 10K in certain cases ( for married filing separately ) , and phases out entirely for anyone at AGI of 112K ( for 2012 ) . The table linked describes the various deduction phase-out parameters depending on your filing status , and will probably be updated yearly by the IRS . However this is only relevant if your company provides a retirement plan , as Joe mentioned . If your company does n't provide a retirement plan but your spouse 's does - then <URL> . If neither you nor your spouse ( if you have one ) is covered - then there 's no AGI limit , and you can indeed make an IRA contribution before April 15th that would be attributed to the previous year and reduce your tax bill . Note that " provides " means the plan is available , even if you do n't participate in it , any time during the year .
The <URL> pertaining to the subject . In general the best I can say is your business expense may be deductible . But it depends on the circumstances and what it is you want to deduct . Travel Taxpayers who travel away from home on business may deduct related expenses , including the cost of reaching their destination , the cost of lodging and meals and other ordinary and necessary expenses . Taxpayers are considered " traveling away from home " if their duties require them to be away from home substantially longer than an ordinary day 's work and they need to sleep or rest to meet the demands of their work . The actual cost of meals and incidental expenses may be deducted or the taxpayer may use a standard meal allowance and reduced record keeping requirements . Regardless of the method used , meal deductions are generally limited to 50 percent as stated earlier . Only actual costs for lodging may be claimed as an expense and receipts must be kept for documentation . Expenses must be reasonable and appropriate ; deductions for extravagant expenses are not allowable . More information is available in Publication 463 , Travel , Entertainment , Gift , and Car Expenses . Entertainment Expenses for entertaining clients , customers or employees may be deducted if they are both ordinary and necessary and meet one of the following tests : Directly-related test : The main purpose of the entertainment activity is the conduct of business , business was actually conducted during the activity and the taxpayer had more than a general expectation of getting income or some other specific business benefit at some future time . Associated test : The entertainment was associated with the active conduct of the taxpayer 's trade or business and occurred directly before or after a substantial business discussion . Publication 463 provides more extensive explanation of these tests as well as other limitations and requirements for deducting entertainment expenses . Gifts Taxpayers may deduct some or all of the cost of gifts given in the course of their trade or business . In general , the deduction is limited to $ 25 for gifts given directly or indirectly to any one person during the tax year . More discussion of the rules and limitations can be found in Publication 463 . If your LLC reimburses you for expenses outside of this guidance it should be treated as Income for tax purposes . Edit for Meal Expenses : Amount of standard meal allowance . The standard meal allowance is the federal M&amp;IE rate . For travel in 2010 , the rate for most small localities in the United States is $ 46 a day . <URL> Alternately you could reimburse at a <URL>
I am not 100 % sure , but I think the answer is this : You ca n't max out both . You could theoretically max out the SIMPLE IRA ( $ 11,500 ) and then contribute $ 4,000 to your 401k , but your total ca n't exceed the 401k limit of $ 16,500 . This also means you could max out your 401k at $ 16,500 , but you could n't contribute anything to the SIMPLE IRA . Note that no matter what , you ca n't contribute more than $ 11,500 to your SIMPLE IRA . ( Note that this is all independent from your Traditional or Roth IRA , which are subject to their own limits , and not affected by your participation in employer-sponsored plans . ) As I understand it , a 401k and a SIMPLE IRA both fall under the umbrella of " employer-sponsored plans " . Just like you ca n't max out two 401k 's at two different employers , you ca n't do it with the 401k and the SIMPLE IRA . The only weird thing is the contribution limit differences between SIMPLE IRA and 401k , but I do n't think the IRS could/would penalize you for working two jobs ( enforcing the lower SIMPLE IRA limit for all employer-sponsored retirement accounts ) . You should probably run the numbers , factoring in the employer match , and figure out which account-contribution scenario makes the most financial sense for you . However , I 'm not sure how the employer match helps you when you 're talking about a small business that you own/run . You may also want to look at how the employer match of the SIMPLE IRA affects the taxes your business pays . Disclaimer # 1 : I could n't find a definitive answer on your specific scenario at irs.gov . I pieced the above info from a few different " SIMPLE IRA info " sites . That 's why I 'm not 100 % sure . It seems intuitively correct to me , though . Does your small business have an accountant ? Maybe you should talk to him/her . Disclaimer # 2 : The $ amounts listed above are based on the IRS 2010 limits .
The rule of thumb ( and that is also what the IRS say in the link Chris posted in the comment ) is that if the institution is eligible for FAFSA - the tuition qualifies for the credits . The quote from <URL> : Eligible educational institution . An eligible educational institution is any college , university , vocational school , or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education . It includes virtually all accredited public , nonprofit , and proprietary ( privately owned profit-making ) postsecondary institutions . The educational institution should be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution . To the best of my knowledge , none of the options you mentioned qualify for FAFSA ( one requirement would be accreditation , which none of the MOOCs have , IIRC ) .
end question
start question
What can I do to passively generate income ?
There is n't any place you can put $ 300 and turn it into significant passive income . What you need to do instead is manage the active ( work ) income that you have so that your money goes farther , freeing income up for reducing debt and investing . Investing $ 300 one time wo n't add up to much , but investing $ 100 a month will turn into wealth over time . Making a monthly budget is the key to managing your income . In the process , you 'll find out where your income is going , and you can be intentional about how much you want to spend on different things in your life . You can allocate some of your income to paying down debt and investing , which is what you need to do to get ahead . For some general guidelines on what to do with your money first , read this question : <URL> . For more specifics on creating a budget , eliminating debt , and building wealth , I recommend the book <URL> by Dave Ramsey .
When you fill out your FASFA section 3 You will be asked some or all of these questions : Were you born before January 1 , 1989 ? As of today , are you married ? At the beginning of the 2012-2013 school year , will you be working on a master 's or doctorate program ( such as an MA , MBA , MD , JD , PhD , EdD , or graduate certificate , etc. ) ? Do you have children who will receive more than half of their support from you between July 1 , 2012 and June 30 , 2013 ? Do you have dependents ( other than your children or spouse ) who live with you and who receive more than half of their support from you , now and through June 30 , 2013 ? Are you currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training ? Are you a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces ? At any time since you turned age 13 , were both your parents deceased , were you in foster care or were you a dependent or ward of the court ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you an emancipated minor ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you in legal guardianship ? On or after July 1 , 2011 , were you homeless or were you at risk of being homeless ? If you are unable to answer yes to at least one of these questions you will need a special circumstance to get a waiver . However , Federal law allows for some exceptions , if you have a special circumstance . The following are examples of some special circumstances where you may submit your FAFSA without providing parental information : Your parents are incarcerated ; or You have left home due to an abusive family environment ; or You do not know where your parents are and are unable to contact them ( and you have not been adopted ) . But not all situations are considered a special circumstance . The following are situations that would not be considered a special circumstance : Your parents do not want to provide their information on your FAFSA ; or Your parents refuse to contribute to your college expenses ; or Your parents do not claim you as a dependent on their income taxes ; or You do not live with your parents . <URL> Your school will have to approve the special circumstance if you apply for one . If you are not eligible for a special circumstance and can not provide parental income information then you will only be eligible for Unsubsidized loans . <URL>
Here 's one reason that 's being overlooked in answers so far . ( @ChrisInEdmonton , this is for your comment on @Chad 's answer . ) How do credit card companies make money ? Sure , there 's interest charges , but those are offset significantly by the cost of borrowing money , and by people defaulting on their debt / entering bankruptcy . The other way they make money is by processing transactions . They get a cut of whatever you buy . If you 're a high-income person , and you 're going to process a lot of expenditures with this credit card , your business is worth more . They will be willing to bribe you with things like cash-back , frequent flier miles , and insurance on your auto rentals , so that they can be your # 1 go-to card . ( This works in concert with the way that some credit card vendors with richer clientele overall - American Express - get to charge higher merchant fees for access to these customers ' wallets . But that was mentioned in other answers . ) If you 're not a high-income person , your business is worth less . If you go somewhere asking for credit , they 're going to try and give you a card which will earn them the most money - which probably is n't the one where they give you back 50 % of their transaction fee in rewards . It 's a calculated risk , since they still have to compete against cash , debit cards , and all the other credit card companies , so they do n't have you totally over a barrel , but you should n't expect as many freebies , either .
I have been a private tutor on and off for about 30 years , in three countries , so I understand your concerns ! I always kept records as though it was a real business - even if I only had one student I kept records of dates/times/names , and also tracked where the money went ( I never spent it straight up - it always got deposited to complete the paper trail ; yes , this is paranoia on my part ) . I 've never been asked to prove anything with regards this income ( although I have no Canadian experience ) . It 's always been a case of tell the tax folks and make sure my arse is covered if they come asking questions . Hope this helps .
Assuming you 're in the US , you can also access CPI for major cities / regions . The US Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) publishes a PDF each month with details on how prices of services , food , and other goods has increased or decreased : <URL>
To start trading at a minimum you need 3 things ; Bank Account : This again is not must , but most preferred to transact . Quite a few broker would insist on this . Demat Account : This is must as all shares on NSE are held electronically . The custodians are CSDL or NSDL both Government entities . These do n't offer services directly to customer , but via other financial institutions like Banks and Large Brokers . Broker Account : This is required to buy or sell securities . If you are only buying in IPO , this is not required as one can directly participate in IPO and Broker is not involved . However if you want to buy and sell on NSE you would need a broker account . Quite a few financial institutes offer all 3 services or 2 services [ Demat/Broker ] . The fee structure and online service etc are differentiators . You can take a look at options and decide the best one to use .
You 're not clueless at all . You do n't mention that you have any debt , but if you have consumer debt , you might want to consider accelerating your payments on those debts unless you 're already doing so . You and your wife have a baby on the way . They 're an absolute joy ( we have a 7-year-old ) , but they 're also a financial strain . If I were in your shoes knowing what I know about your situation , I 'd think carefully and go slowly with any investing until after you adjust to a larger family . That way you run less risk of having a sizable investment tank when you really need the money for your new baby . Continue to learn about investing . There 's no reason to rush into something you 're not comfortable with . If your goal is for a down payment on a house , then continue towards that . Cash is just fine for that . Shop around for a good house from someone who really needs to sell .
There really is n't a way to do it that much more quickly . Some major factors to help you build credit : 1 . Pay on time : Late payments will kill your rating . 2 . Keep accounts open a long time : The average age of your credit accounts is a big factor . 3 . Keep the balances on each credit account low as a % of your line . Try not to go over 50 % of your credit limit , even if you pay in full every month . 4 . Open different kinds of loan accounts ( credit cards , mortgage , auto , etc. ) 5 . Having a lot of new credit accounts hurts you , unfortunately . Luckily # 1 and # 2 , the ones you have the most immediate control over , make up over 55 % of your total score .
The Fools have a range of advice from common-sense to speculative , aimed at different audiences ( one hopes ) . As always , do n't take anyone 's word for it ; think it through and decide whether the risk/reward ratio is really in your favor and how much you can afford to risk . They 're good on the basics , but the more advanced they get , the more risk there is that they 've got it wrong . That last is true of any advisor unless they have information that the rest of us do n't . You can learn some things from their explanations of their reasoning without necessarily taking their conclusions as gospel .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
After talking with a tax representative it seems that this amount would be listed under box 14 of the W2 , which is not in my case . So , I will fill in a 0 .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
I can come up with a case . Line 22 of form 1040 is the first line where you add up your income , and this is called " total income " . However , some of the lines that sum into this can be reported as losses ( negative numbers ) in the total income : rows 12 , 13 , 14 , 17 , 18 , and 21 . Keep an eye on 17 ( rental income/loss ) and 21 ( other income ) Line 37/38 is the AGI calculation . This is line 22 with 0 or positive values subtracted . Line 37 is always less than or equal to Line 22 , so : Short story : " AGI " is always less than or equal to " total income " . Form 8582 introduces MAGI on line 7 , referring to instructions to calculate . Most of the exclusions are from row 23-36 ( the positive numbers subtracted from AGI ) . However , it also excludes rental losses , which could be a negative number ( from row 17 ) added into row 22 . There is something of a race condition in whether or not the real estate losses can actually be claimed ( depending on if you qualify as a so-called " active participant " , if the losses are less than $ 25,000 and if the MAGI as calculated is greater than $ 100,000 , with a series of prorating calculations to determine the allowable loss . Nevertheless , Form 8582 , line 7 ( modified adjusted gross income ) can be greater than 1040 , line 22 ( total income ) if there is a loss in 1040 , line 17 ( real estate income/loss ) . Short story : If you have a large rental income loss , you could have MAGI greater than " total income " . As a bonus consideration , Form 6251 , line 28 introduces " alternative minimum taxable income " as a sum . This calculation starts from the AGI , and adds back to total income certain expenses that could have been included in Schedule C or Schedule E ( part of the total in 1040 , line 12 or 17 ) , and certain categories of other income in form 1040 , line 21 . So by adding back in certain expenses , it 's possible that alternative minimum taxable income exceeds total income from 1040 , line 22 . Short story : if you are a mining or petroleum explorer , had a large quantity of investment expenses , had a partnership that reported a loss , or otherwise had specific types of expenses , you may find you have an " alternative minimum taxable income " greater than " total income "
I would say to only bother keeping the ones you know you 'll use for itemized deductions . This includes any unreimbursed business expenses and vehicle licensing fees . There are a lot of other itemized tax deductions possible , but those are two common ones . Also , keep track of your business mileage ( mileage before and after the trip , and commuting does n't count as " business mileage " ) . You may also want to keep receipts of all out-of-state purchases if your state is one of those that tries to collect state tax on out-of-state purchases . Ensure your supported charities are 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) , and they 'll give you a receipt at the end of the year . Do n't bother keeping fast food or gas receipts ( unless they 're business expenses ) .
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
I 'd suggest you run a credit check on the new tenant . If you reject based on this , they have little to argue as this is an objective number . It 's no guarantee , but a high credit score says a lot . Edit - I added a chart in response to your last comment . You can be as choosy as you wish , the request for credit check is to weed out the potential disasters more than to find a golden 800 score . I agree with Rob , a 650-700 cutoff would give you the top 1/2 - 1/3 of potential applicants .
An unmarried person with a total U.S.-sourced earned income under $ 37,000 during the year 2016 is likely to owe : Somewhat less than 15 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " federal income taxes " , plus : 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : If they are an independent contractor another 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as the " employer share " of their " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : Any state and local income taxes ( which do not exist in Washington State ) , plus : If they are working as a licensed business any " unemployment insurance premiums " and " workers compensation premiums ** . Each of these can be 0.5 % - 4 % of pay ( below certain caps ) , depending on the state , business , and industry . Plus If they are working as a licensed business any state and local " business and occupation taxes " ( a.k.a. " B&amp;O taxes " ) . Washington State has a B&amp;O tax rate slightly below 4 % of gross revenue , for many kinds of businesses . If the original poster is not an " independent contractor " , and is not " billing corp-to-corp " then : Their employer will pay the B&amp;O taxes , unemployment insurance premiums , workers compensation premiums , and the " employer share " of the " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " . The original poster can fill out their " W-4 form " in such a way that their employer will withhold 15 % of their pay for federal income taxes . ( One way to do this is to claim 99 dependents , and ask to have " additional withholding " that happens to be 15 % of the amount of each pay period 's pay . ) Sometime between January 1 , 2017 and April 15 , 2017 , the original poster can download U.S. federal income tax forms , fill them out , and submit them to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to claim a refund . In summary : The original poster 's net pay is likely to be 22.65 % less than their stated pay ( if they are working for business that takes care of tax withholding , and are not an " independent contractor " ) An " independent contractor " or someone billing " corp-to-corp " ( as a business of their own ) with a similarly modest income is likely to have a net pay 33 % to 40 % less than their stated pay . These calculations do not consider the effects of other deductions , such as for medical insurance , health savings accounts , dependent care , and retirement savings accounts . These calculations do not consider the effects of taxes by the original poster 's home country . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
There is n't any place you can put $ 300 and turn it into significant passive income . What you need to do instead is manage the active ( work ) income that you have so that your money goes farther , freeing income up for reducing debt and investing . Investing $ 300 one time wo n't add up to much , but investing $ 100 a month will turn into wealth over time . Making a monthly budget is the key to managing your income . In the process , you 'll find out where your income is going , and you can be intentional about how much you want to spend on different things in your life . You can allocate some of your income to paying down debt and investing , which is what you need to do to get ahead . For some general guidelines on what to do with your money first , read this question : <URL> . For more specifics on creating a budget , eliminating debt , and building wealth , I recommend the book <URL> by Dave Ramsey .
My experience with leaving a job and COBRA coverage matches your understanding . Approximately 3 weeks after my last day I received the paperwork , the deadline for completing the paperwork was 45 days after the end of the insurance coverage . Therefore I had coverage with the new employer for several weeks before I had to decide if I retroactively needed the COBRA coverage . Because my family did n't have any major medical issues during that window I never had to purchase the coverage . I have used the same logic during my lat 3 job changes . Though now with the Affordable care Act if you needed coverage the national or state exchange is another source of insurance that you may have .
end question
start question
Is the average wage a reliable measure for how much the average person earns ?
Your question is intriguing as statistics are a funny thing . There 's average which is just that , total all income and divide by population . Then there 's median , which is where 50 % are higher , 50 % lower . I 'm ignorant of Australia , forgive me , if there is a large concentration of wealth , the average becomes less and less meaningful as a measure of the general welfare of the population . Simple example , one in 100 people earn $ 1M . That means the other 99 make $ 10K less to get to the same average , right ? So to educate myself I took a glance at <URL> . In fact , your GINI coefficient is more favorable , as is your R/P 10 % . I do n't know if this was tangential to your question , but it was a lesson for me , thanks .
<URL> has a section titled " Do you need an umbrella policy to cover your personal liability risks ? " that says : If you have young children , for example , you might need a policy because they have lots of friends . These little tikes might get into some mischief and hurt themselves at your home . If so , you 're at risk of being sued . Do you have people over often ? Do you drive like a maniac or a Parisian ? Do you have firearms on your premises ? Do you have gardeners and housekeepers on the grounds ? All these are reasons why you might want to own an umbrella policy . Although many people in the US are homeowners , parents , drivers , etc. , not everyone falls into these categories . For some people , as low as the premiums for such a policy might be , the expected cost outweighs the expected benefit . The cost of a lawsuit may be extremely high , but someone may feel that the chance of a lawsuit being filed against them is low enough to be safely ignored and not worth insuring against . I 'm probably not a great example , but I 'll use my own situation anyway . Even though a liability policy probably would n't cost me too much , I 'm almost certain that I would n't derive any benefit from it . I live alone without children ( or firearms , pet tigers , gardeners , etc. ) in a 520 sq. ft. apartment , so the probability that something bad would happen to someone on the small bit of property that I rent and that they would file a sizable lawsuit against me is small enough that I choose to ignore it .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
Not much at all , especially an introductory level Microeconomics class . There are a few reasons for this : Finance and investing is not actually economics . Some of economics surrounds investing , but economics as a field is much wider than that . The class will likely cover the concepts behind how you theoretically make economic decisions , and not why putting your life savings into a 3x short leveraged ETF will ruin everything . It 's an introductory class . While it may give you the foundations of understanding how the economy works , it 's not going to prepare you for the more complex world that actually exists . Supply and demand curves and other theoretical frameworks are all well and good , but it 's no more going to make you an astute investor than taking a introductory class in human physiology is going to make you a decent doctor . The economics is not finance thing again . The market is n't rational . You are n't rational . The toy models that you 'll work with are only tangentially useful . That 's not to say that Economics is n't worth studying . I loved both my Micro and Macro class . But I probably got more useful investing knowledge from a class on linear regression .
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
In a divorce , the terms " husband " and " wife " are almost always deprecated . When it comes to asset division , the key terms are " community ( or marital property ) " and separate property . In terms of custody , you will hear " custodial " and " non-custodial " parent . This should illustrate where the courts bias lies . Divorce divides up three things - the kids , the property , and future income . These can be thought of best in terms of custody , property , and separation . What follows is based on my current experience in mediation in Virginia . As a minor background , she kicked me out of the house after 15 years of marriage , four days after I buried my mom . I do n't like her , but I 'm going to try to be fair . 1 . Custody When it comes to custody of the children , yes , there is a bias towards the mother . Typically , you will get joint custody , but my lawyer told me straight up that the kids will be with the mother more than the father . <URL> . Anecdotally , my brother 's wife suffered from schizophrenia . When their first son was born , the doctors had to convince her that the saline was not intended to abort the child , she had to be restrained , and my brother was only let in at the last minute because of her bizaare handling of the situation . When my nephew was born , we had to seek sole custody for the sake of the baby . There was an actual court case in which she demonstrated her own inability to care for the child by acting out in court . Based on this and on the testimony of the hospital , it was granted - although my brother would not divorce the mother . A year later , however , she was able to get the same judge to lift the sole custody by taking meds and behaving better . Had this been a divorce situation , the outcome may have been different , but it goes to show what kind of hurdles a dad faces if you are attempting to gain sole custody of the children . 2 . Property As far as asset division goes , the court 's first preference is to let the parties decide , preferably through mediation . In my case , the mediator always encourages us to try to work out an " equitable " division before saying what the law provides . In my case , for example , my soon-to-be-ex-wife and I have a lot of equity in farm . It was complicated by the fact that the property had been derelict until we fixed it up , using funds from a house that I sold after we were married , but which I had purchased before we were married . Because I purchased it prior , it should be what is called <URL> - something over which the judge actually has no jurisdiction . In order to prove it is separate property , however , I had to do something called a <URL> in which each portion is vetted out . My ex , of course , has an interest in disputing my claim . I am having to produce the title when I purchased the house , sold the house , show that the rental income derived from the house was never co-mingled with marital income , when I sold the house that I never deposited the assets in a marital account , and that I intended to keep these assets separate . That 's a pretty high bar , and one mistake - or a judge who is sympathetic to my ex - can disregard my claim . The bias is typically for a 50-50 distribution , assuming that is " equitable . " If there had been adultery , for example , or if my wife had no assets of her own , or if I could show that my wife had not fully contributed to the marriage , or if the marriage had been really , really short , he could alter the division of the marital property but not the separate property . If you can prove separate property , the judge has no control over the division . Marital property can be divided . The stories you hear ( exaggerated a little bit ) of the wife getting away with " everything " usually stem from a discrepancy between what the husband thinks he put into the marriage and what the judge thought was an equitable distribution on the way out . In my case , I put $ 900,000 in cash into a house worth $ 1.4 million . $ 300,000 of that was from cash that I had raised prior to the marriage . Now , the mortage is $ 350K ( let 's call it $ 400 so the numbers are even . ) There are two ways of considering what " equitable " might mean ( aside from the fact that I was earning 5 times what she was , and that I 've been paying this mortgage all along . ) Personally , I think that $ 1million in equity , minus my $ 300K , means that equitable is ( $ 300K + ( $ 700K/2 = $ 350K ) $ 650K for me , $ 350 for her . A straight split would be $ 500 / $ 500 . If she gets the $ 500 , then , yes , it seems like she stole my money . From her perspective , that 's " fair " . This is why divorce stinks . ( Full Disclosure : Because her brother-in-law gave her sister-in-law 100 % of their house , she simply expected me to give her everything and keep her mortgage . She said " If you were a good man , you 'd just give me the house . " Thankfully the mediator was able to say , " Why should he do that ? " ) 3 . Support Support , at least in Virginia , is the most fluid thing of all . Again , the terms " husband " and " wife "
First , you file using federal schedule 1 and the corresponding provincial form . Federally , the credit is a dollar for dollar reduction of the tax payable ( it is a non-refundable tax credit ) . For federal tax , the credit is 15 % of the first $ 200 of donation and 29 % on all amounts over $ 200 . Be aware that the maximum you can claim is limited to 75 % of your net income ( the excess can be carried forward 5 years ) . See the article at <URL>
It feels relatively easy because your employer takes care of the calculations and the consequences of your personal situation are sorted out later . But at the end of the day , the structure of the income tax is not particularly simple . Even without taking all the credits and deductions into account , the rules for employers <URL> . The general idea behind the system is that if you paid too much , you get it back at the end of the year . Same thing for all the deductions . So if you stop working during the year or have a large mortgage , you can get quite a bit of money back at the end of the year . But your employer does not take it into account to compute the monthly withholding so the answer to the " How do they calculate it in this case ? " question is " They do n't ! " . If you anticipate a large discrepancy in one direction or the other , you can however ask for a " voorlopige aanslag " ( or <URL> ) . You would then receive money monthly , with the remainder to be paid later , after the final assessment . Finally , if you your income fluctuates a lot from year to year , you can also ask the tax office to smooth it over three-year periods and to recompute the income tax accordingly . It can mean that money taxed in a higher tax bracket in one year gets moved to a lower one because you did not go over the threshold in another year , thus reducing the overall amount you have to pay . This is called <URL> . Beyond that , the tax code makes liberal use of deductions and credits to define complex rules so that the notion that there are only three straightforward tax brackets might be a bit misleading . Where the German tax code has different tax brackets and/or rates , the Dutch tax code has a seemingly simple set of basic tax rates modulated by these deductions/credits . As an example , consider the <URL> . It 's a tax credit between $ 700 and $ 2000 that every taxpayer gets ( hence " algemene " ) . Because everybody qualifies for it , it means that the first $ XXXX of income are effectively tax free ( akin to the German Grundfreibetrag and similar rules in many countries ) . But it 's not described in that way , you first compute the income tax based on the usual rates and then discount the credit ( in German this is typically called an Absetzbetrag ) . Then to make everything more complex , this tax credit varies depending on your age , your income or whether your partner earns money . And some of the rules ( e.g. on fiscal partners ) are being phased out and only apply to people who benefited from them in the past . So there is a lot more complexity in all this than meets the eye .
Contextualization First of all I think I 'll clear off some confusion in the topic , the Sterling Ratio is a very simple investment portfolio measurement that fits nicely to the topic of personal finance , although not so much to a foreign exchange trading system . The Sterling Ratio is mainly used in the context of hedge funds to measure its risk-reward ratio for long term investments . To do so it has been adapted to the following in order to appear more like the <URL> : I Suppose this is why you question the Average Largest Draw-down . I 'll come back to that later . It 's original definition , suggested by the company Deane Sterling Jones , is a little different and perhaps the one you should use if you want to measure your trading system 's long term risk-reward ratio , which is as followed : Note : Average Annual Draw-down has to be negative on the above-mentioned formula . This one is very simple to calculate and the one to use if you want to measure any portfolio 's long-term results , such an example of a 5 or 10 years period and calculate the average of each years largest drawdown . To answer @Dheer 's comment , this specific measurement can also be used in personal investments portfolio , which is considered a topic related to personal finance . Back to the first one , which answers your question . It 's used in most cases in investment strategies , such as hedging , not trading systems . By hedging I mean that in these cases long term investments are made in anti-correlated securities to obtain a diversified portfolio with a very stable growth . This one is calculated normally annually because you rely on the Annual Risk-Free Rate . Answer to Your Question : Having that in mind I think you can guess that the Average Largest Drawdown is the average between the Largest/Maximum Drawdown from each security in the portfolio . And this does n't make sense in a trading system . Example : If you have invested in 5 different securities where we calculated the Largest Draw-down for each , such as represented in the following array : , in this case your Average Largest Draw-down is the that equals 0.172 or 17,2 % If your portfolio 's annual return is 15 % and the Risk-free Rate is 10 % , your Sterling Ratio , which result to 0.29 . The higher the rate better is the risk-reward ratio of your portfolio . Note : I suggest in your case to only use the original Sterling Ratio to calculate your long-term risk-reward , in any other case I suggest looking at the <URL> and <URL> ratios instead .
There are actual cases where this has occurred . In cases where the beneficiary was suspected of knowing that the insured person was alive , they have faced fraud charges . In cases where they appeared to act in good faith , the legal consequences are less severe , but the likelihood of the insurance company to sue for their money back will depend on the circumstances and the amount of the payout . <URL> was a woman who abandoned her family and did n't reappear until 11 years later . The family did n't know where she was , so they probably wo n't end up paying back the relatively small $ 100,000 that they received .
The FDIC periodically checks to make sure the bank is accurately accounting for all the deposits in the bank through a <URL> verifies whether the insured institution accurately calculates and reports data upon which the FDIC assesses deposit insurance ... issues a report discussing the institution 's compliance with assessment reporting requirements , the effectiveness of the institution 's documentation , and the institution 's responsiveness throughout the review process .
Average person 's life I 'm going to say there is no normal debt level . Here 's the standard life pattern : When someone finishes their studies in university , and are therefore highly educated , they 'll have student debt with low assets , so they 'll probably be in debt ( negative equity , if you will ) . At least that 's the case in Australia , where student debt is lower interest than a savings account . Then they 'll get a job , rent a place , save up to buy a place , and soon they 'll have very low debt . Next they buy a place with a mortgage , and they 'll have very high debt . Over the years , they 'll pay off the mortgage and reach minimal or zero debt . So it really depends on your situation , it 's way too spread out to quote a " normal " figure . Cost of debt vs Gain from assets and Risk of income You need to strike a sweet spot based on : Cost of debt , as in interest . E.g. student loans are usually pretty cheap , mortgages are ok , credit cards are very bad How much gain are you getting from the assets that are funded by the debt ? E.g. spending on a holiday is a big loss , a car is a slight to moderate loss , but a house or shares are often a good gain . For it to be financially beneficial , you need the net gain from the asset to be higher than the cost of the debt . How risky is the income from the debt funded assets , and your own personal income ? A 90 % loan on a house is a much safer bet than a 90 % on the share market . Likewise , a freelancer who 's income fluctuates heavily should n't be as leveraged as someone working in a job where they 've " become furniture " , or whatever the saying is ! Someone who is more educated in finance will probably be able to run a tighter and more aggressive financial strategy , whereas someone who is educated in , say , creative media may not be able to do as good of a job . Running your life as a business Someone here mentioned this , I think it 's very true . Unless you intend on living day to day , with no financial strategies , much of our lives parallel businesses . Both need to pay tax , both look for low risk high growth strategies , and both will ( hopefully ) have a purpose that goes beyond bringing in $ $ $ .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
200 period moving average means the average over the last 200 units the chart is in . So if you are looking at a weekly chart the period is weeks , if you are looking at a daily chart the period is daily , if you are looking at an hourly chart the period is hourly , etc. .
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
<URL> For ages 25-34 : 70 % saved less than $ 25k 12 % were between $ 25k - $ 50k 9 % were between $ 50k - $ 100k 5 % were between $ 100k - $ 250k 4 % were above $ 250k . Obviously that 's a huge range , and a 26 year old would at the very low end , but I would say anywhere near $ 25,000 is a ton .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
Nowadays , the field is irrelevant for processing the transfer and completely ignored by the banks . Pretty much the only purpose it has is for documenting whom you intended to send the transfer to . If you mistakenly send a transfer to the wrong person ( which is becoming extremely unlikely with the IBAN due to the builtin check digits ) then they are mandated by law to give it back to you . If they refuse to do so and you end up going to court , the content of that field could be important to prove them wrong if they claim they are the rightful recipient .
Inflation gets a lot of press but people rarely stop to think about how they would measure inflation . Prices do not go up equally for all items in the market . Market prices are ever changing in response to supply , consumer demand , and money devaluation . New money printed by the Fed ( in the US ) may flow into one area of the economy and not affect other areas which would causes certain items to be more inflationary than others . As you mention , different people will have varying levels of exposure to the items that are inflating more rapidly than others . I may have a long commute to work so I 'm more exposed to rising prices in gas . You may live in a city and walk to work so gas prices do not affect you as much . I may be a vegetarian so I 'm not sensitive to meat , pork , and chicken prices . There are also lots of items that I never purchase that are used to calculate the inflation rate . Inflation is not as easy to measure as some think . The only way I know to measure a personal inflation rate would be to track your expenses every month ( by unit - $ per 16 oz of bread , $ per gallon of gas , etc. ) . If you see your personal inflation rate rising faster than the government rate then you know you are more exposed to inflation ( at least according to the government 's way of measuring inflation - which uses <URL> , geometrically weighted averages , <URL> , and other political magic ) . In short , if your expenses do not match the CPI expense distribution ( see chart ) then you will not have the same level of exposure to the government reported inflation .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a stop order and a stop limit order ?
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 've worked on software to model both kinds of retirement accounts -- the RRSP in Canada and the 401 ( k ) in the U.S. -- and here 's what I 've learned about their major similarities and differences : How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are similar : Both are official investment account types created by government and conferring tax advantages designed to encourage you to save for retirement : Both permit pre-tax contributions ; i.e. you can claim an income tax deduction for contributions made to the account during the year . Both enable tax-deferred investment growth . That is , any returns generated in the account are not taxed in the year returns are generated -- rather , they are taxed later upon withdrawal -- hence the " deferred " . This helps compound growth work to your advantage . Both have annual contribution limits designed to prevent you from contributing all of your income into the account . Both generally permit you to invest in a variety of investment products ( e.g. mutual funds , stocks , bonds , CDs / GICS ) -- though what options exactly depends on your plan or broker . Both have ages beyond which withdrawals or conversion to an account type requiring withdrawals is mandatory . ( Required Minimum Distribution rule in the U.S. , and RRIF accounts in Canada . ) How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are different : 401 ( k ) accounts are offered only in conjunction with an employer via payroll deduction . Whereas , in Canada it is possible to have an individual RRSP , as well as a group RRSP from an employer , and payroll deductions are just one way to put money in . In Canada , there are also distinct employer-sponsored Defined Contribution ( DC ) pension plans which are not considered RRSPs ; I understand in the U.S. , most DC plans are 401 ( k ) - type plans . On the other hand , while there are no individual 401 ( k ) in the U.S. , there are Individual Retirement Account ( IRA ) plans , but contribution limits are less generous . 401 ( k ) accounts can optionally offer two additional contribution types : traditional post-tax contributions , and Roth post-tax contributions . Such types of contribution do not exist for RRSPs , where the only contribution type is pre-tax . However , Canada recently introduced the TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Account ) , which behaves similar to U.S. Roth-type accounts . 401 ( k ) contribution allowances are use-it-or-lose-it for the year , but in Canada the RRSP contribution allowances cumulatively carry forward . That is , if you do n't put in your allowed contribution this year , you can put in that amount next year , plus next year 's amount , etc. . Many Canadians have built up lots of unused contribution room , to a point where they could conceivably shelter very large sums in an RRSP -- a symptom of past under-saving . 401 ( k ) accounts have early withdrawal penalties where generally speaking any withdrawal before age 591/2 is penalized with an additional 10 % tax , on top of the regular tax due . However , in Canada , early withdrawals from an RRSP are treated no different than withdrawals made in retirement . 401 ( k ) accounts have " catch-up " contributions permitting individuals age 50 + to contribute additional funds . Canada 's RRSP has no such provision ; perhaps owing to the cumulative contribution allowance I mentioned above . 401 ( k ) accounts are subject to rules for Highly Compensated Employees ( HCE ) , which prevent some top-earners in a company from contributing the maximum if other employees do n't contribute enough . RRSPs do n't have such a requirement . There are many more differences ; e.g. inheritance rules , loans , etc. and I 'm sure they could be uncovered if you look at legislation for each in detail ( and manage not to fall asleep doing so ! ) However , I think I 've covered the most common differences above . Official reference sources : <URL> <URL>
You can make the rollover at a later time without a problem . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Roth IRA , the timing will affect your taxes . If you are rolling from a 401k to a Traditional IRA , also called a Rollover IRA in this case , you can do it at any time . The only exception would be if you have less than $ 5000 vested in the 401k they can force you to take a distribution from the plan . From experience , not all plans enforce this provision , but they are not forced to keep your 401k open unless you have at least $ 5000 . Update : I found out some additional information recently that I was n't aware of . Apparently you once the money is in a Rollover IRA , it can be converted into a Roth IRA at any later point without incurring a distribution penalty ( of course , you still have to pay that taxes at the point of conversion ) . There is no time limit for the conversion either .
The difference between dividend and growth in mutual funds has to do with the types of stocks the mutual fund invests in . Typically a company in the early stages are considered growth investments . In this phase the company needs to keep most of its profits to reinvest in the business . Typically once a company gets a significant size the company 's growth prospects are not as good so the company pays some of its profits in the form of a dividend to the shareholders . As far as which is the best buy is totally a personal choice . There will be times when one is better then the other . Most likely you will want to " diversify " and invest in both types .
Wisegeeks are explaining it well , Investopedia are mentioning it briefly . The difference is in the accounting treatment . The difference is hard to notice , but significant : for example if your company is making ice cream , then the earnings would be the revenue from selling ice cream minus all the costs to produce ice cream ( including materials , salary , equipment , transportation , etc ) . But the profits would also include other revenue ( for example - interest on cash in the bank ) , reduced by other expenses ( for example , the CEO 's vacation with the mistress to Argentina ) . Large difference between earnings and profits may suggest that the company spends a lot of money on unrelated activities ( for negative difference ) or has a lot of unrelated income ( for positive difference ) . Differences in accounting methods ( for example GAAP vs IFRS ) may also contribute to the difference between the revenue and the profits .
A person executing a single order during a flash crash would not be high on the suspect list for the cause of the crash , so no , I would n't worry about it at all . There is nothing wrong with taking advantage of whipsawing prices as long as you didnt cause them .
The <URL> requires that banks assist the U.S. Gov ' t in identifying and preventing money laundering . This means they 're required to keep records of cash transactions of <URL> , and report any such transactions with a daily aggregate limit of a value greater than ( or equal to ? ) $ 10,000 . Because of this , the business which is issuing the money order is also required to record this transaction to report it to the bank , who then holds the records in case FinCEN wants to review the transactions . EDITED : Added clarification on the $ 10,000 rule
A REIT is a real estate investment trust . It is a company that derives most of its gross income from and holds most of its assets in real estate investments , which , in this case , include either real property , mortgages , or both . They provide a way for investors to get broad exposure in a real estate market without going to buy a bunch of properties themselves . It also provides diversification within the real estate segment since REITs will often ( but not necessarily ) have either way more properties than an individual could get or have very large properties ( like a few resorts ) that would be too expensive for any one investor . By law , they must pay at least 90 % of their taxable income as dividends to investors , so they typically have a good dividend rate ( possibly but not necessarily ) at the expense of growth of the stock price . Some of those dividends may be tax advantaged and some will not . An MLP is a master limited partnership . These trade on the exchange like corporations , but they are not corporations . ( Although often used in common language as synonyms , corporation and company are not the same thing . Corporation is one way to organize a company under the law . ) They are partnerships , and when you buy a share you become a partner in the company . This is an alternative form of ownership to being a shareholding . In this case you are a limited partner , which means that you have limited liability as with stock . The shares may appreciate or not , just like a stock , and you can generally sell them back to the market for a capital gain or loss under the same rules as a stock . The main difference here from a practical point of view is taxes : Partnerships ( of any type ) do no pay tax - Instead their income and costs are passed to the individual partners , who must then include it on their personal returns ( Form 1040 , Schedule E ) . The partnership will send each shareholder a Schedule K-1 form at tax time . This means you may have " phantom income " that is taxable even though cash never flowed through your hands since you 'll have to account for the income of the partnership . Many partnerships mitigate this by making cash distributions during the year so that the partners do actually see the cash , but this is not required . On the other hand , if it does happen , it 's often characterized as a return of capital , which is not taxable in the year that you receive it . A return of capital reduces your cost basis in the partnership and will eventually result in a larger capital gain when you sell your shares . As with any investment , there are pros and cons to each investment type . Of the two , the MLP is probably less like a " regular " stock since getting the Schedule K-1 may require some extra work at tax time , especially if you 've never seen one before . On the other hand , that may be worth it to you if you can find one that 's appreciating in value and still returning capital at a good rate since this could be a " best of everything " situation where you defer tax and - when you eventually do pay , you pay at favorable capital gains rates - but still manage to get your cash back in hand before you sell . ( In case not clear , my comments about tax are specific to the US . No idea how this is treated elsewhere . ) By real world example , I guess you meant a few tickers in each category ? You can find whole lists online . I just did a quick search ( " list of MLP " and " list of REIT " ) , found a list , and have provided the top few off of the first list that I found . The lists were alphabetical by company name , so there 's no explicit or implicit endorsement of these particular investments . Examples of REIT : AKR AIV ARE Examples of MLP : CAFD ACMP AB
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
Speculation means putting your money on a hunch that some event may occur , depending on current circumstances and some future circumstances . So either you win huge or lose a lot . Investment is a conscious decision made on well defined research and grounded on good reasons i.e. economy , industry , company reports etc. . Here is a link on wikipedia with more details on <URL> .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
To be able to claim moving expenses in Canada , your new home must be at least 40 km closer to the new place of work than your old home . CRA spells out the criteria and includes a nice quiz here : <URL> They do n't specifically state that the order matters , so I take it to mean that the CRA just needs to consider that the move was reasonable . That is , if you are moving for a specific job , the order does not matter . But you could , for example , not move from Alberta to New Brunswick , then start your job search , and then take a job three months later . In other words , you must move for a specific job ; otherwise , you are n't moving to be closer to your place of employment . You do n't necessarily need to have a signed job offer in hand , but you must have been verbally offered the job . Remember to keep your receipts , invoices , and supporting documentation .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
No functional difference . Only impression/convenience . " Business checks " are checks in larger format ( 8 " instead of the regular 5 " checks ) , they can be from your personal account just as well . I did n't have any problem using the small " individual " - standard checks for my company ( I actually did get them for free from Wells Fargo , but that was a gesture , not by policy ) .
Your credit limit is a secret function of your score , income-to-debit ratio and the expected default rate , at the least , for your profile . This means the median credit limit changes based on each group of the above variables , and since we do n't know what your profile is , it 's not possible to guess a number . However , anything below $ 500 is a low credit limit as high risk profiles ( no/low income , low score ) seem to have that limit in my personal experience . If you are earning money and paying taxes on it , and you have a 600 + score , I guess a reasonable credit limit is $ 2500 , and anything below that is low .
Usually backtests for ( long-term ) strategies are evaluated on a end-of-day basis where you only consider close prices . If your strategy performs well in these backtests , hopes are that if you use a <URL> order your performance will not diverge too much from the backtest . The fact that it wo n't diverge much is important if you keep backtesting the strategy along with the real trading to see regime changes or similar . If you used end-of-day prices for the backtests but some arbitrary intraday market order , you 'd have some difficulties to explain deviations between the two . What it is : MOC orders can be submitted during the day , but they wo n't be executed until shortly before the market ( or more precise the current session ) closes .
end question
start question
What are the tax consequences of ISO exercising with an 83B election after the stocks FMV has gone up ?
83 ( b ) election is for restricted stocks , not options , so my answer assumes exercise at vest/at grant ( early exercise ) . Will I have to pay tax on ( 2000 * 8 = $ 16000 ) Yes . Will it be a regular income tax or AMT or a short term capital gain ? You have no gain . You vested at $ 10 and sold at $ 10 , you got a wash . The $ 16K you mentioned earlier is the benefit you got from the company , which is not a gain but your salary and is taxed as such ( including FICA etc ) . Also , I read that 83B does not make sense for vested stocks Indeed . In the above case , can I file 83B for the unvested 1000 stocks ? No , you can only file 83 ( b ) election within 30 days from the grant . By not filing it , you ended up with $ 16K being taxed at vest time as your salary ( i.e. : at marginal rates ) . Had you filed 83 ( b ) election on time , you 'd pay the tax on your benefit ( the $ 2 per option , if you did n't have to buy them ) , but all the gains on vesting would be capital gains ( likely long term ) . That ship has sailed , for that particular grant . Since in your case you can exercise the options , it is not as bad as it could have been . Consider a case where you got 1000 options at $ 0.01 , they vested at $ 1000 , you exercised them to get the stocks and you could n't sell any ( not yet public , ca n't sell privately , etc ) . You 'd be taxed on $ 1M when you never actually received any cash income , and you 'd have to chip out $ 300K on taxes on income you never had . By the time you could sell , the stocks can fall , say to $ 100 , leaving you with hundreds of thousands of capital loss that you can not deduct , and hundreds of thousands of taxes owed which you have no money to pay . That led to a lot of problems for people during the 90 's . com bubble and the subsequent crash .
First , the usual caveat applies : consult a tax professional with experience in these matters . That being said , the term you 're looking for is a <URL> . The 60/40 rule applies to any contract that falls under this designation , which includes Regulated futures contracts Foreign currency contracts Nonequity options Dealer equity options Dealer securities futures contracts Futures options ( on commodities , indexes , etc. ) would fall under the " nonequity option " category , which is any listed option ( defined later ) that is not an equity option . Nonequity options include debt options , commodity futures options , currency options , and broad-based stock index options . A broad-based stock index is based on the value of a group of diversified stocks or securities ( such as the Standard and Poor 's 500 index ) .
" I am trying to buy a property between me and a friend " - You and a friend are buying a property together ? No , the owner probably wo n't like a third party check . There are no tax consequences so long as you have a paper trail . Nothing to submit unless you are asked . Your friend and you will show joint ownership of the property , just keep a copy of the check , the statement showing the deposit , and the check used to buy the property , along will all other docs you get at closing .
You do not hold leveraged ETF for longer than a few days . You have UGAZ and DGAZ , both 3x leveraged , one longs one shorts . What happens if you buy both ? You do n't get 0 % return . In fact , you get -10 % return if you hold both for 3 months . No matter what happens , they both go down in long term . Call it Leverage Decay , Beta Slippage , Contango , Rollover , etc. . If you want to gamble that NG goes up within 3 days , go ahead . Just be prepared for the worst cases like losing 15 % in 3 days . If you want to speculate the NG will recover in a year , buy Natural Gas industry ETF <URL>
Yes , the " based on " claim appears to be true -- but the Nobel laureate did not personally design that specific investment portfolio ;-) It looks like the Gone Fishin ' Portfolio is made up of a selection of low-fee stock and bond index funds , diversified by geography and market-capitalization , and regularly rebalanced . Excerpt from <URL> : The Gone Fishin ' Portfolio [ circa 2003 ] Vanguard Total Stock Market Index ( VTSMX ) -- 15 % Vanguard Small-Cap Index ( NAESX ) -- 15 % Vanguard European Stock Index ( VEURX ) -- 10 % Vanguard Pacific Stock Index ( VPACX ) -- 10 % Vanguard Emerging Markets Index ( VEIEX ) -- 10 % Vanguard Short-term Bond Index ( VFSTX ) -- 10 % Vanguard High-Yield Corporates Fund ( VWEHX ) -- 10 % Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund ( VIPSX ) -- 10 % Vanguard REIT Index ( VGSIX ) -- 5 % Vanguard Precious Metals Fund ( VGPMX ) -- 5 % That does appear to me to be an example of a portfolio based on <URL> , " which tries to maximize portfolio expected return for a given amount of portfolio risk " ( per Wikipedia ) . MPT was introduced by <URL> , who did go on to share the 1990 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences . ( Note : That is the economics equivalent of the original Nobel Prize . ) You 'll find more information at <URL> . Finally , for what it 's worth , it is n't rocket science to build a similar portfolio . While I do n't want to knock the Gone Fishin ' Portfolio ( I like most of its parts ) , there are many similar portfolios out there based on the same concepts . For instance , I 'm reminded of a similar ( though simpler ) portfolio called the <URL> , made popular by MoneySense magazine up here in Canada . p.s. . <URL> is related and informative .
You are not allowed to have any of your own dependents if you are a dependent ( or can possibly be claimed , even if not claimed ) on someone 's return . You can not claim any dependents if you ( or your spouse , if filing jointly ) could be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer . <URL> If you are considered to be a qualifying child of another tax payer , you are not allowed to claim the Earned Income credit . If you are a qualifying child of another taxpayer , you can not claim the EIC . This is true even if the person for whom you are a qualifying child does not claim the EIC or meet all of the rules to claim the EIC . Put " No " beside line 64a ( Form 1040 ) or line 38a ( Form 1040A ) . <URL> . In addition , the standard deduction that can be claimed is less than that for a single taxpayer that is not a dependent . The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person 's tax return is generally limited to the greater of : $ 1,000 , or The individual 's earned income for the year plus $ 350 ( but not more than the regular standard deduction amount , generally $ 6,100 ) . However , if the individual is 65 or older or blind , the standard deduction may be higher . <URL>
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
During after hours , there is less liquidity , defined as the quantity of the asset on the limit book and the spread between the best orders . Actually , for the most liquid securities in the US , trading has actually been extended by fifteen minutes . The liquidity there seems to be rising up to normal levels . If trading on those securities matches normal hours then it would n't be unreasonable to assume another fifteen minutes will be added and so on . The primary exchanges close trading mostly at 4:00 PM with the above noted exceptions . The secondary exchanges trade almost non-stop . They use their internal inventory to do so or communicate directly with the registering agent . This has little to do with floor traders but more with tradition since the NASDAQ also closes at 4:00 PM . If more demand it , the exchanges should be expected to extend trading hours , regulation permitting . I ca n't speak to Canada 's regulation , but in the US , trading hours are traditional not regulatory .
No , it is not true . That is one of the many " conspiracy theorists ' " claims to not pay taxes , and is <URL> ( i.e. : punishable by <URL> and criminal prosecution ) . Specifically to your question , the current Federal income tax framework was laid down in 1986 , with the <URL> . It is codified under the <URL> . It is usually referred to as the " Internal Revenue Code " , or IRC .
Market cap probably is n't as big of an issue as the bid/ask spread and the liquidity , although they tend to be related . The spread is likely to be wider on lesser traded ETF funds we are talking about pennies , likely not an issue unless you are trading in and out frequently . The expense ratios will also tend to be slightly higher again not a huge issue but it might be a consideration . You are unlikely to make up the cost of paying the commission to buy into a larger ETF any time soon though .
How " different " were these signatures ? The purpose of a signature is to provide evidence that you authorized or agreed to something . If the handwriting is recognizably the same , that 's what matters most . In practice any signature that you claim is yours is yours ; any signature that you claim was forged must be proven to be forged , and any signature that is n't convincing when compared to your past signatures may be refused or bounced back to you for confirmation . If the style of your signature has changed completely , you should contact banks and put a copy of the new signature on file , as well as making sure it 's the one shown on id and credit cards and so on ... just as you would if you had changed your name . If it 's just a matter of leaving out your middle name or no longer writing " junior " , do n't worry about it until/unless someone objects . It is better if your signature is closer to identical every time ; that actually matters more than whether it 's readable . But everyone is aware that minor variationS will occur . If that 's all you 're asking about , relax .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
To get the quarterly effective interest rate , the quoted interest rate should be divided by four thus . To get the annual effective interest rate , the effective quarterly interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken the fourth power thus : To get the total return , the effective annual interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken to the fifth power thus : Relationship between the effective annual and compounded interest rate The spread between the APR &amp; EAR is proportional to compounding frequency and to the APR. . The EAR will always be greater in magnitude than the APR and will always have the same direction because of the nature of the formula : Because the EAR is a geometric representation of the interest rate while the APR is the arithmetic representation . <URL> Change in terminology In the US , the APR is fast becoming interpreted as the EAR because EAR disclosure is now mandatory for most products , but this has not historically been the case and probably still is n't the case everywhere else . Effective from compound rates Compounded annual rates are usually the effective rates multiplied by the number of compounding periods . Historically , arithmetic averages were preferred over their more accurate geometric counterparts because of ease of calculation . When interest rates are small and calculators expensive , this is sufficiently accurate . This explains the strange math behind compound rates , which the US has more or less abandoned . Now that anyone can buy a pocket calculator for next to nothing , it pays to be more precise with interest rate calculation especially at near-0 rates since a 0.1 % error while paying 1 % is a possible 10 % increase in debt costs .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
First , your benchmark : Your SB account gives you 4 % . Now , consider a fixed deposit . Banks offer you those , at rates that depend on the term . The 1-year FD today gets you between 9 and 9.5 % . While the term is locked in , you can get an early withdrawal - if you exit the 1 year FD within , say , 60 days , they 'll give you the interest rate that applied for 60 days when you started the FD ( with some banks reducing a further 1 % from that rate as a penalty ) . Still , your principal is returned in full ( the penalty is only on the interest ) . Negatives : Taxes . The interest paid is fully taxed , and worse , taxes are deducted at source ( TDS = 10 % of the interest ) , so even if you do n't use the interest it 's counted as income and taxed . Next , consider a short term debt mutual fund . These are , for terms of more than a month , just as low on risk as a bank fixed deposit . There is no equity , and these funds put money back into bank wholesale deposits which give an even better rate . You can withdraw any time you want ( it takes only a day to get money back into your account ) . Usually early withdrawal penalties will apply for about 30 days , but if you have a longer horizon that should n't be a problem . The good part : No TDS , and the interest received is not considered " income " , until you withdraw . So if you get 9 % and do n't exit , you pay no taxes , and the compounding of the full 9 % happens . It 's an alternative to a Savings Bank account - just keep putting your money in , and take it out when you need it . The bad part : There is no guarantee that you 'll get 9 % ; with market prices being volatile , the yields could drop to 6 % . So you have to track this carefully ( currently , yields have been between 8 and 9 % for the last year ) A more detailed piece on this at : <URL> Choosing such a fund : I wrote an article about it at <URL> - I still continue to be invested in those funds ( and they 're giving me about 9 % ) The above are limited risk options . For a long term view I would consider equity investments ( buying stocks or equity mutual funds ) from reputed funds . If you 're risk averse consider buying a " balanced " fund like HDFC Prudence , where they invest part in fixed income markets and part in stocks . Lastly , do n't look at the recent past only . The Sensex has returned over 18 % in the last ten years , but the ten years before that were horrible . Equity markets are risky , but can give you fantastic returns as well .
My W-2 included additional info so that it was easier to understand : It explained the numbers for Box 1 ( wages tips an other compensation , Box 3 ( Social security wages ) , Box 5 Medicare wages , Box 16 State wages : For box 1 it was Gross pay Less 401K ( D-Box 12 ) Less Medical FSA Less other Cafe Less Cafe 125 HSA ( W-box 12 ) It included the numbers for each cell . Note the number in W Box 12 for the HSA was my contibution plus their contribution . But the number in the calculation of Box 1 was only my contribution .
Just speaking from my experience here . When I was younger ( lol only 23 now ) , I did n't really get pocket money . If I wanted something I had to work for this , luckily at 13 I scored a paper round gaining # 10 per week . I would personally say to encourage children to do some " work " , whether its a paper round , or even just house chores . I learned early on , that to get money you have to work for it . I 've always had a job since 13 , most of my college years I held 2 jobs at a time , even 3 at 1 point . Many of my friends did n't work for their pocket money , they relied on handouts , quite a few of these friends have later on in life taken the easy route , not working and rely on state ( pocket money ) , or still have mummy and daddy pay for everything So my moral is ; do n't just give out willy-nilly , teach some value to money and it will go a long way ;) / 2 cents
The S&amp;P / ASX 300 is rebalanced every six months , with changes taking effect on the third Friday of March and September . From a PDF under <URL>
The big problem will be that the forms have to include the Vehicle Identification Number ( VIN ) . That implies that there is the possibility that one of the forms might be rejected . There is also the problem that the form may be flagged because the amount claimed does n't match the amount expected based on the make and model . The best approach is for one person to claim the whole amount , then transfer half the value of the credit to the other one in cash . That might be difficult because there of the size of the credit , but with the refund it might not be that bad unless you have both planned your tax situation to not get a refund .
end question
start question
Resources for historical performance BEYOND 10 years ?
on finance.yahoo.com you can click on historical prices . You would have to download it to a spreadsheet and then you can work on it with whatever tools you have .
I would start with <URL> and <URL> . At Globefund , you can compare any mutual fund against a plethora of benchmarks . Not sure if you can compare between individual funds .
A 401 ( k ) is just a container . Like real-world containers ( those that are usually made out of metal ) , you can put ( almost ) anything you want in it . Signing up for your employer 's match is a great thing to do . Getting into the habit of saving a significant portion of your take-home pay early in your career is even better ; doing so will put you lightyears ahead of lots of people by the time you approach retirement age . Even if you love your job , that will give you options you otherwise would n't have . There is no real reason why you ca n't start out by putting your retirement money in a short-term money-market fund within that 401 ( k ) . By doing so you will only earn a pittance , probably not even enough to keep up with inflation in today 's economic environment , but at this point in your ( savings and investment ) career , that does n't really matter much . What really matters is getting into the habit of setting that money aside every single time you get paid and not thinking much of it . And that 's a lot easier if you start out early , especially at a time when you likely have received a significant net pay increase ( salaried job vs college student ) . I know , everyone says to get the best return you can . But if you are just starting out , and feel the need to be conservative , then do n't be afraid to at least start out that way . You can always rebalance into investment classes that have the potential for higher return -- and correspondingly higher volatility -- in a few years . In the meantime , you will have built a pretty nice capital that you can move into the stock market eventually . The exact rate of return you get in the first decade matters a lot less than how much money you set aside regularly and that you keep contributing . See for example <URL> by Matt Becker ( no affiliation ) , which illustrates how it takes 14 years for saving 5 % at a consistent 10 % return to beat saving 10 % at a consistent 0 % return . So look through what 's being offered in terms of low-risk investments within that 401 ( k ) . Go ahead and pick a money-market fund or a bond fund if you want to start out easy . If it gets you into the habit of saving and sticking with it , then the overall return will beat the daylights out of the return you would get from a good stock market fund if you stop contributing after a year or two . Especially ( but not only ) if you do pick an interest-bearing investment , do make sure to pick one that has as low fees as you can possibly find for what you want , because otherwise the fees are going to eat a lot into your potential returns , benefiting the bank or investment house rather than yourself . Just keep an open mind , and very strongly consider shifting at least some of your investments into the stock market as you grow more comfortable over the next several years . You can always keep a portion of your money in various interest-bearing investments to act as a cushion in case the market slumps .
Just to make it an Answer : Because the exchange rate has been " pegged " to a specific value since 1983 by the Hong Kong government , rather than being allowed to drift freely . " In 1972 , the Hong Kong dollar was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 5.65 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar . This was revised to 5.085 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar in 1973 . Between 1974 and 1983 , the Hong Kong dollar was floated . On 17 October 1983 , the currency was pegged at a rate of 7.8 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar , through the currency board system . " -- Wikipedia article on <URL> . The Wikipedia article <URL> provides some additional detail about how this is managed , and notes that in practice some minor variation will occur .
To get the quarterly effective interest rate , the quoted interest rate should be divided by four thus . To get the annual effective interest rate , the effective quarterly interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken the fourth power thus : To get the total return , the effective annual interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken to the fifth power thus : Relationship between the effective annual and compounded interest rate The spread between the APR &amp; EAR is proportional to compounding frequency and to the APR. . The EAR will always be greater in magnitude than the APR and will always have the same direction because of the nature of the formula : Because the EAR is a geometric representation of the interest rate while the APR is the arithmetic representation . <URL> Change in terminology In the US , the APR is fast becoming interpreted as the EAR because EAR disclosure is now mandatory for most products , but this has not historically been the case and probably still is n't the case everywhere else . Effective from compound rates Compounded annual rates are usually the effective rates multiplied by the number of compounding periods . Historically , arithmetic averages were preferred over their more accurate geometric counterparts because of ease of calculation . When interest rates are small and calculators expensive , this is sufficiently accurate . This explains the strange math behind compound rates , which the US has more or less abandoned . Now that anyone can buy a pocket calculator for next to nothing , it pays to be more precise with interest rate calculation especially at near-0 rates since a 0.1 % error while paying 1 % is a possible 10 % increase in debt costs .
Money you need in less than 5 years should be saved not invested . The only place I would be comfortable the money would be a money market account or Certificate of Deposit ( CD ) . I usually go for the money market account because they pay at or close to CD rates and there are no restrictions on getting to the money . However in this case I might choose a CD to keep me from being tempted to borrow some of it for something else . But even after typing that I still think I would put it in a money market , because if interest rates rise they rise in the money market but not the CD , and I just do n't think interest can go much lower .
Where you can put the money really depends on your risk tolerance . You could take $ 50k and put it into a good share class municipal and government bond fund that would likely be tax exempt . In a few years span I do n't think you 're likely to lose much in a tax-managed bond fund but it 's certainly possible ! Here is a link for Vanguard tax-exempt bond funds by state of residency : <URL> These funds have returns well exceeding CD 's or standard savings accounts . Risk of loss is real , but returns are possible .
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
When shopping for a mortgage , you get a grace period where all credit pulls related to mortgage shopping in 14 days only count as one credit pull . Having other banks pull your credit to get a quote should not additionally affect your credit because you just had a bank pull your credit for the first quote .
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
I think you 're making a mistake . If you still want to make this mistake ( I 'll explain later why I think its a mistake ) , the resources for you are : <URL> - The IRS official web site , that has all the up-to-date forms and instructions for them , guiding publications and the relevant rules . You might get a bit overwhelmed through . Software programs - TurboTax ( <URL> for a sole propriator or single member LLC , <URL> for more complicated business ) , or <URL> ( only one version that should cover all ) are for your guidance . They provide tips and interactive guidance in filling in all the raw data , and produce all the forms filled for you according to the raw data you entered . I personally prefer TurboTax , I think its interface is nicer and the workflow is more intuitive , but that 's my personal preference . I wrote about it <URL> last year . Both also include plug-ins for the state taxes ( If I remember correctly , for both the first state is included in the price , if you need more than 1 state - there 's extra $ 30 - $ 40 per state ) . Your state tax authority web site ( <URL> in your case ) . Both Intuit and H&amp;R Block have on-line forums where people answer each others questions while using the software to prepare the taxes , you might find useful information there . As always , <URL> is your friend . Now , why I think this is a mistake . Mistakes that you make - will be your responsibility . If you use the software - they 'll cover the calculation mistakes . But if you write income in a wrong specification or take a wrong deduction that you should n't have taken - it will be on your head and you 're the one to pay the fines and penalties for that . Missed deductions and credits - CPA 's ( should ) know about all the latest deductions and credits that you or your business might be entitled to . They also ( should ) know which one got canceled and you should n't be continuing taking them if you had before . Expenses - there are plenty of rules of what can be written off as an expense and how . Some things should be written off this year , others over several years , for some depreciation formula should be used , etc etc. . Tax programs might help you with that , but again - mistakes are your responsibility . Especially for the first time and for the newly formed business , I think you should use a ( good ! ) CPA . The CPA should take responsibility over your filing . The CPA should provide guarantee that based on the documents you provided , he filled all the necessary forms correctly , and will absorb all the fees and penalties if there 's an audit and mistakes were found not because you withheld information from your CPA , but because the CPA made a mistake . That costs money , and that 's why the CPA 's are more expensive than using a program or preparing yourself . But , the risk is much higher , especially for a new business . And after all - its a business expense .
They are limiting your total investment in Notes to no more than 10 % of your net worth . Step 1 : determine your net worth Step 2 : Divide this number by 10 The answer is the maximum amount you can put at risk through Lendingclub . The issue is that if you lose all the investment you will not be bankrupted . If it was the other way you could invest all your net worth in Lendingclub by splitting it among 10 + notes . Your net worth is " determined exclusive of the value of your home , home furnishings and automobile . " Which means do n't include the house and the stuff in the house . That means your net worth is the money in the bank ; plus the money invested in stocks , ETFs , and mutual funds ; plus retirement accounts ( 401K , IRA ) ; minus loans ( student , credit cards ) .
The link to an article about <URL> Joe Strazzere pointed to answers this question quite clearly . It 's between Buffett ( not Berkshire ) and Protg ( the firm , not its funds ) . And there 's serious money at stake . Each side put up roughly $ 320,000 . The total funds of about $ 640,000 were used to buy a zero-coupon Treasury bond that will be worth $ 1 million at the bet 's conclusion . So , $ 640,000 , not $ 320,000 , in bonds become $ 1M ten years later , a bit over 4 % annual growth . That seems eminently reasonable to me . Each side put up $ 500k effectively and agreed that the whole $ 1M will be given to charity .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
It 's a matter of keeping contemporaneous records for legitimate income . My daughter started baby sitting at age 11 , and even then , was earning $ 10/hr . I told her that in exchange for keeping a notebook listing the date , name , time , and money earned , I 'd make deposits to her account . It 's important to note that the exact dollar earned does n't have to be deposited , only that there 's income greater than the deposit . It can come from savings or a gift . The limit to deposit is $ 5500 in 2015 or the child 's earned income , whichever is less . For a toddler , aside from modeling/acting , I do n't know what earned income he might have . As he gets older , yard work in the summer or snow shoveling in the winter can both add up fast .
First of all , your spouse can never be your dependent . Rather , you can file Married Filing Separately or Married Filing Jointly with your spouse . You should never miss the deadline to file your taxes , even if you do n't owe taxes . If your wife can not apply for an ITIN along with the filing of taxes , then you must file as Married Filing Separately and amend your return later , once you get an ITIN or SSN . Yes , if she gets an SSN she can use it on past years ' taxes .
The Motley Fool 's How to Invest <URL> Benjamin Graham 's The Intelligent Investor <URL> If you like The Intelligent Investor then try Benjamin 's <URL> . But that one is not a beginner book .
Your only option might be finding a seller-financed property with a motivated seller who is willing to take the risk of loaning you money . However , be prepared to pay a hefty rate on that loan if you can even pull it off .
When you apply for a car loan -- -- they will pull your credit report and perform a " hard inquiry " on your file . This means the inquiry will be noted in your credit report and count against you , slightly . This is perfectly normal . Just do n't apply too many times too soon or it can begin to add up . They will want proof of your income by asking for recent pay stubs . With this information , your income and your credit profile , they will determine the maximum amount of credit they will lend you and at what interest rate . The better your credit profile , the more money they can lend and the lower the rate . If you know the price -- -- that you want financed ( the price of the car minus your down payment ) that is the amount you can apply for and in that case the only factors they will determine are 1 ) whether or not you will be approved and 2 ) at what interest rate you will be approved . While interest rates generally follow the direction of the prime rate as dictated by the federal reserve , there are market fluctuations and variances from one lending institution to the next . Further , different institutions will have different criteria in terms of the amount of credit they deem you worthy of . So in your case -- -- you know the price of the car . Now determine how much you want to put down and take the difference to a bank or credit union . Or , work directly with the dealer . Dealers often give special deals if you finance through them . A common scenario is : 1 ) A person goes to the car dealer 2 ) test drives 3 ) negotiates the purchase price 4 ) the salesman works the numbers to determine your monthly payment through their own bank . Pay attention during that last process . This is also where they can gain leverage in the deal and make money through the interest rate by offering longer loan terms to maximize their returns on your loan . It 's not necessarily a bad thing , it 's just how they have to make their money in the deal . It 's good to know so you can form your own analysis of the deal and make sure they do n't completely bankrupt you . The most important thing -- -- is that you can comfortable afford your monthly payment . The car dealers do n't really know how much you can afford . They will try to determine to the best they can but only you really know . Do n't take more than you can afford . be conservative about it . For example : Think you can only afford $ 300 a month ? Budget it even lower and make yourself only afford $ 225 a month .
The 10 % penalty for nonqualified withdrawals from IRAs applies in addition to income tax owed ( if any ) . So , yes , you do have to pay that amount even if the rest of your tax bill shows zero tax . As to " taxable income being negative " , it all depends on how Line 43 Taxable Income on Page 2 of Form 1040 came to be negative . Line 43 is calculated as AGI ( Line 38 ) Minus the Itemized or Standard Deduction ( Line 40 ) Minus Personal Exemptions ( Line 42 ) except that if AGI Minus Deduction ( Line 41 ) is smaller than Personal Exemptions ( Line 42 ) , then 0 must be entered on Line 43 So , could you provide some details as to how Line 43 came to be less than 0 ?
end question
start question
What happens when you cash out an HSA ?
When you take any money out of an HSA , you 'll get a <URL> . HSAs work a little differently than a 401 ( k ) . With a 401 ( k ) , you are n't supposed to take any money out until retirement . HSAs , however , are spending accounts . I take money out of my HSA every year . As long as you spend the money you take out of your HSA on qualified medical expenses , there are no taxes or penalties due . The bank that holds your HSA does n't know or care what you spend the money on ; they will certainly allow you to empty your HSA account . Anything you take out will be reported to the IRS ( and to you ) on a 1099-SA . At tax time , along with your tax return , you send in a <URL> , on which you report to the IRS what you took out of HSA , and you also certify how much of that money was spent on medical expenses . If any of it was spent on something else , taxes and penalties are due .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable :  $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly .  $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child  $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
Ultimately this depends on a number of factors , some of which could be very localized . The first question to ask yourself is why you are purchasing a house . If your reason can be summarized as something like " because it is a good investment " , then the simple answer is to wait . Houses come with many fun hidden expenses ( like the dishwasher crapping out or needing a new roof in the middle of winter ) and historically their returns approximate inflation . In addition , any wealth you do gain is tied up in the house . There are many online resources that can step you through the thought process on deciding if getting a home is right or not , as well as calculators that can account for unexpected expenses and such to indicate the financial side of things . Now that you have decided buying a house makes sense ... In the US there are a number of options you have . If you ( or your spouse ) have a military record ( either currently active or retired/honorable discharge ) then you qualify for the VA loan program which offers low-money-down loans without PMI . If you want to buy a property that is rural farmland , and you meet a number of other requirements there are USDA loans available that also have low-to-no down payment required and no PMI . For conventional loans , lenders generally will not accept traditional loans for the down payment , though sometimes family loans are ok with them ( family loans are a bad idea for other reasons ) . Assuming you do not qualify for any of those other programs , and you do not wish to take a gift/loan / " family feud starter " from your family , you still have a few other possibilities . Many states have programs to help with down payment assistance . Depending on where the house you want is , how much you earn , how expensive the house is , and other possible factors , you might be able to get a grant or an extremely low-to-no interest loan to help bridge the gap . Note that these programs might put limits on the kind of loan you can have ( for instance it might specify you need a FHA , VA , or USDA loan to qualify ) . The specific details of the plan can be very location specific . For instance Washington State has a state wide program ( <URL> ) , but Seattle city also has a <URL> . The income limits , maximum purchase price , and assistance amount are very different between the two programs . A great resource to start with is the <URL> . They have more information on some of the federal level programs , and can also direct you to the local programs near you . Pay attention to the local programs , because many of them have classes for eligibility that you can take for free and that discuss loans and the home buying process for your area ( this is a great resource , even if you do n't wind up using those programs ) .
Do you still enjoy living in your home ? Can you afford the mortgage payments ? Is there a reason for you to move , such as a relocation for work , or your third kid is on the way and your current house is already crowded with two ? Those questions are more important than " Is my home worth more than what I owe on it " . Ultimately , it 's your home . You probably chose it for more than just its price , and those qualities should still make it valuable to you in some way beyond the monetary value which goes up and down with the market . You have a few options : Walk away . This would make sense if you do n't want to live there anyway , or if you really ca n't afford it ( lost your job , etc. ) You will destroy your credit rating by taking this route . Talk with your bank . If you can afford your payments and everything , they are n't likely to give you anything , but if you have a good relationship with them , maybe they will . It 's worth a try . Stay in your home long enough that your head is above water again . You 're paying down your mortgage , and home values track inflation over the long term . Eventually those curves will cross . This may be ten years out , but if you enjoy living there and it 's still the " right home for you " , why not stay ?
( credits to Joe 's answer above which alluded to what I was not considering ) You are n't " bypassing " the tax liability if you invest in a home instead of , say , stocks . It 's true stocks would be subject to tax during the year you cash in on them while the proceeds of a home equity loan would not affect your tax liability . HOWEVER , by taking on a new loan , you are liable for repayments . Those repayments would be made using your income from other sources , which IS taxable . So you ca n't avoid tax liability when financing your child 's college education by using an equity line .
To be clear , a 401K is a vehicle , you make investments WITHIN it , if you choose poorly such as say putting all your money into company stock when working for the next Enron , you can still get hurt badly . So it is important to have diversity and an appropriate risk level based on your age , tolerance for risk , etc. . That said , as vehicles go it is outstanding , and the ' always max your 401K ' is very very common advice for a large number of investing professionals , CFA 's , pundits , etc. . That said there are a few priorities to consider here . First priority , if there is some level of company matching , grab that , it 's hard to beat that kind of ' return ' in almost any other case . Second , since you never want to tap into a 401K ( if you can at all avoid it ) before you are ready to retire , you should first be sure you have a good 'em ergency fund ' set aside in the event you lose your job , or some other major catastrophy happens . Many recommend setting aside at least 6 months of basic living expenses . Third , if you have any high interest debt ( like credit card debt ) pay that stuff down as fast as you can . You 'll save a ton of interest ( it 's pretty much the same as investing the money you use to pay it down , and getting a return equal to the interest rate you are paying , with zero risk . . ca n't be beat . You 'll also end up with a lot better cash flow , and the ability to start saving first and spending out of savings , so you earn interest instead of paying it . Once you have those things out of the way , then it is time to think about fully funding the 401K . and keep in mind , since you do n't pay taxes on it , the ' felt effect ' to you pocket is about 80 % or even less , of what goes into the account , so it 's not as painful as you might think , and the hit to your take home may be less than you 'd expect . Contributing as much as you can , as early as you can also lets you benefit from the effect of compounding , and has a far larger affect on the balance than money put into the account closer to retirement . So if you can afford to max it out , I surely would advise you to do so .
It depends on the sequence in which the order [ bid and ask ] were placed . Please read the below question to understand how the order are matched . <URL>
Yes you are eligible even if your spouse is enrolled in Medicare . As long as YOU are not enrolled in Medicare you can contribute to an HSA . You may use the money to pay the cost of qualified medical expenses for you and your spouse . Here are some resources with additional information : <URL> <URL>
Charitable deductions ( and all Schedule A deductions ) are applied to your marginal tax calculation . They reduce the taxable income on the line 43 of your tax return ( form 1040 ) . When you calculate your tax on the <URL> , you start with that number . You then deduct all the capital gains from it and calculate the ordinary tax on line 24 of the worksheet .
Here is a <URL> A google of HSA administrators turns up quite a list . These accounts are separate from IRAs , and an IRA ca n't substitute . The HSA is required to have the HDHP and the insurer running it should be offering you the linked HSA partners as they are closely tied .
A medical expense is only a qualified medical expense eligible for an HSA distribution if it is not reimbursed by insurance . If you know that you will be reimbursed , do not pay for it through your HSA . Think of it this way : you can only be reimbursed for a medical expense once . Either you get reimbursed by your insurance , or you get reimbursed by your HSA , but not both . If you pay for the expense with your HSA and are later reimbursed , you need to return the money to your HSA through a <URL> . This is not considered a contribution , but you need to make sure to tell your HSA provider that it is a mistaken distribution repayment and not a contribution , so that it gets accounted for correctly .
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
So apparently there is no form , you just have to call them .
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
Without more information about what tax bracket you are in , I can not make a recommendation about what your best option is , but here are a few things to consider : You can still contribute to the HSA until April 15th of next year if you have not contributed your allowable maximum ( for the current year that is the annual maximum / 12 * the number of months you were covered by a high-deductible plan ) . Contributions to the HSA are pre-tax and will reduce your tax liability , if you are in a higher tax bracket , the money saved in taxes may outweigh the maintenance fee . If the invested funds are returning better than inflation and the maintenance fees , it does not hurt you to leave the funds in place . Though you may not currently have a high deductible plan available , the health insurance market is moving in that direction and you may find yourself back in a high deductible plan before too long . ( I would wait at least until the next open enrollment to make my final decision . ) The deductible that qualifies is currently $ 1250 single or $ 2500 family If there are any qualified expenses , you can use those funds without incurring further tax and maintenance fees . ( For example if you could benefit from LASIK , that would be one way to empty the account .
This is a great question ! The IRS is not 100 % clear on this . IRS publications do however very strongly suggest that assuming your wife has a plan providing family coverage , you can contribute up to your family maximum . If she does NOT have a family coverage plan then the answer is definitively no , you may only contribute the individual limit . Note if you have children covered by her plan then she is considered to have " family coverage " even if you are not covered by her plan ( see <URL> ) . Latest IRS HSA Publication From the <URL> , bottom of Page 4 . For 2012 , if you have self-only HDHP coverage , you can contribute up to $ 3,100 . If you have family HDHP coverage , you can contribute up to $ 6,250 . This is presumably the referencing the definition which is introduced and discussed for married couples on Page 6 : Rules for married people . If either spouse has family HDHP coverage , both spouses are treated as having family HDHP coverage . If each spouse has family coverage under a separate plan , the contribution limit for 2012 is $ 6,250 . You must reduce the limit on contributions , before taking into account any additional contributions , by the amount contributed to both spouse 's Archer MSAs . After that reduction , the contribution limit is split equally between the spouses unless you agree on a different division . Example . For 2012 , Mr. Auburn and his wife are both eligible individuals . They each have family coverage under separate HDHPs . Mr. Auburn is 58 years old and Mrs. Auburn is 53 . Mr. and Mrs. Auburn can split the family contribution limit ( $ 6,250 ) equally or they can agree on a different division . If they split it equally , Mr. Auburn can contribute $ 4,125 to an HSA ( one-half the maximum contribution for family coverage ( $ 3,125 ) + $ 1,000 additional contribution ) and Mrs. Auburn can contribute $ 3,125 to an HSA . The last example is nearly the exact situation you are in assuming your wife 's plan is family coverage . The only assumption beyond what is explicitly written you need to make is that you are considered to have family coverage in the example as per the " Rules for married people " section , even though your plan only is a single-coverage plan . This conclusion seems to logically follow from information in the FAQs <URL> ( see Q32 ) , as well as <URL> document . Neither the above example nor any IRS documents referenced in this answer cover your situation completely .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 591/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
Your spouse is eligible for an HSA even if you have one as long as she is covered by a qualified high-deductible plan . In the case that you both had HSAs you would be limited in how much you contribute each year , but both can have accounts . In 2015 , you could each contribute $ 3350 to your separate HSA plans . If you have a combined plan , and even if you switched mid year , you could contribute $ 6650 during that year total to the two HSAs . That can be divided any way you want as long as the total does not exceed that maximum for the year . You can contribute an extra $ 1000 if you are over 55 years old . ( I should probably also mention that you can still make contributions for the 2015 year until April 15 , 2016 , because it 's relevant to most who would read this . Also you can only contribute a percentage of that limit matching the percentage of months that you are covered , but if you are covered for the last month of the year , you can contribute the full amount as long as you are covered for the ENTIRE following year . )
Do not take the cash ! You might be able to leave the money with the large company . Ask the HR people at the company . If you are satisfied with their work , no sense leaving if you do n't have to . I have coworkers that have 401K all over from all the buyouts the company went through . If you do n't want to leave it behind , do a rollover into your own account with a low cost carrier . ( Vanguard , Fidelity and Charles Schwab are popular ) Whoever you choose for your own account can help you rollover the funds without penalty . ( Schwab helped me over the phone , it was pretty simple ) <URL>
end question
start question
How do I get into investing ?
Do n't do it until you have educated yourself enough to know what you are doing . I hope you wo n't take this personally , but given that you are wandering around asking random strangers on the Internet how to " get into investing , " I feel safe in concluding that you are by no means a sophisticated enough investor to be choosing individual investments , nor should you be trusting financial advisors to choose investments for you . Believe me , they do not have your interests at heart . I usually advise people in your position to start by reading one book : <URL> by <URL> . Once you 've read the book by Malkiel you 'll understand that the best strategy for all but the most sophisticated investors is to buy an <URL> , which simply purchases a portfolio of ALL available stocks without trying to pick winners and losers . The best index funds are at <URL> ( there is also a <URL> ) . Vanguard is one of the very , very , very few honest players in the business . Unlike almost any other mutual fund , Vanguard is owned by its investors , so it has no profit motive . They never try to pick individual stocks , so they do n't have to pay fancy high-priced analysts to pick stocks . If you find it impossible to open a Vanguard account from wherever you 're living , find a local brokerage account that will allow you to invest in the US stock market . Many Vanguard mutual funds are available as <URL> which means that you buy and sell them just like any other stock on the US market , which should be easy to do from any reasonably civilized place .
Applying some simple Math : $ 725,000 / $ 440,000 = 1.6477272727272 ... So , your cumulative return is 64.8 % if I round to 3 digits . Now , if I take the 5th root of 1.648 , I get approximately 1.1050742047085970060712045917364 So , your annualized rate of return is 10.5 % .
Your company may pay your wife or your child a salary . There is unfortunately now a requirement for this salary to be reasonable . The conditions are : the person must perform the duty . If you want to pay your child to pick up paper clips from the floor of your office once a month , that 's fine , but the child needs to go in the office and do that - you ca n't pay them to do that over at the corporate office where they have never set foot . ( You also ca n't keep paying them while they 're away at university and clearly not doing their duties . ) the money must actually be paid to the person . This is less of an issue for an adult spouse , but it might be an issue for a child . They must actually be given the money . ( Most families I know deal with this by having the child 's money used to pay for field trips , skating lessons , clothes and so on so that you do n't end up with a sulky teen who has $ 200,000 in the bank . ) the work must be necessary for the business . Sending the company Christmas cards and keeping the books is necessary . So are marketing , trade show networking , and so on . Even redecorating the office . But looking after the company 's dog , or buying suits , shoes and ties for the business owner , or advising the business owner on personal travel decisions , are probably not . You have to be prepared to defend the job and it might help to have a written job description . under some circumstances CRA will disallow deducting salaries for a company if they do n't think it 's reasonable . ( This is new : when my children were toddlers we could have paid them thousands a month for an hour 's work had we wanted to . ) You can probably pay somewhat more than you would pay a stranger , but do n't try to pay someone 10 times the going rate for a job . ( In practice , I never paid my children more than their peers , because I thought the other staff would find that unfair . ) I recommend you think of something your wife can do for the company and start paying her to do it , at whatever rate you mutually agree on , which does n't have to be the same as she could earn elsewhere , as long as it does n't get ridiculous . $ 10,000 a month to manage the company twitter account ? If you like , and can show that some " social media consultants " are charging that . But again to be clear - she must really do it and the company must issue her paycheques , T4s , send in her CPP contributions ( she , like you , is likely EI exempt ) and so on . All completely above board .
I do n't think there is any other solution that the one you are adopting . More info at <URL> <URL>
Start as early as possible and you will want to kiss your younger self when you get to retirement age . I know you ( and everyone else at that age ) thinks that they do n't make enough to start saving and leans towards waiting until you get established in your career and start making better money . Do n't put it off . Save some money out of each paycheck even if it is only $ 50 . Trust me , as little as you make now , you probably have more disposable income than you will when you make twice as much . Your lifestyle always seems to keep up with your income and you will likely ALWAYS feel like you do n't have money left over to save . The longer you wait , the more you are going to have to stuff away to make up for that lost time you could have been compounding your returns as shown in this table ( assuming 9.4 percent average gain annually , which has been the average return on the stock market from 1926-2010 ) . I also suggest reading this article when explains it in more detail : <URL> ?
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
Honestly I would look for a house you can afford and one that is below the maximum amount of what they are willing to lend you . The reason is owning a house is not a quick loan that you can pay off in a year or two ( unless you 're rich then I would question why are you even bothering with a loan ) . This is a long term commitment ; can you honestly say your job will provide the money for the mortgage , the upkeep and remodeling of the house ( even if it 's the perfect house you will want to change something , make the bathroom bigger , put in a pool table etc. . etc. . ) , living expenses and any hiccups life throws at you ? Like most of us , that answer will be no . Always have money and supplies for that rainy day , for those lean days . For that mortgage payment . And if nothing happens you can always use the money to pay the mortgage off faster or take a vacation .
It 's an asset if you can sell it or if it provides cash flow . For example , if you own a house , the house is an asset , even if you have a mortgage , because you can sell it . If you rent your home from someone else , it 's not an asset , because you do n't own it and ca n't sell it . Stocks , cars that you own ( not lease ) , cash , checking and savings accounts , precious metals , collectibles , and so on are assets . Liabilities are debts ; that is , what you owe . So , for example , liabilities include : balances on mortgages , student loans , credit cards , other loans , any tax or judgment debts , and so on .
The best way I know of to get the interest rate lowered is to call the credit card company and simply ask . Typically if a credit card company thinks you will leave them for another company they will be willing to work with you . There is also the option of transfering some of the higher interest debt to one of the lower interest credit cards . It sounds like you have your friend on the right track by focusing all extra money on the credit card with the highest interest rate . Then after that one is paid off send all extra to the next highest one and so on . The classic " snowball " effect .
It is typically very easy to roll a 401 ( k ) into an IRA . Companies that provide IRA 's are very experienced with it , and I would expect that they will take your calls from overseas . You will likely be able to do it over the internet without using a phone at all . Just open an IRA with any brokerage company ( Scottrade , Vanguard , Fidelity , Schwab , Ameritrade , etc. ) and follow instructions to roll your 401 ( k ) into it . Most likely they will need your signature , but usually a scan of a form you have filled out will do . Be sure to have information on your 401 ( k ) provider , including your account number there , on hand . These companies are all very reputable and this is not a difficult transaction . There 's really no downside to rolling into an IRA . 401 ( k ) plans usually have more limited options and/or worse fee structures and are frequently harder to work with , as you have observed .
The HSA money is yours to keep . You ca n't add new money into the account and get a tax deduction for the new money , but you can spend the old money on medical expenses . First log into the website for the HSA and see if you have money left . This can be important because if there is still money left they might be charging you a monthly fee . You should have gotten a letter from the old company or the administrator when you left the High deductible insurance plan . This would have told you your options regarding the spending or transferring of old funds . HSA related numbers would have appeared on your W2 , and you should have a 1099-SA from the administrator . It is likely that there is a copy of the 1099 on the administrators website . The numbers you enter on the tax forms depends on how much you contributed from your paycheck , how much your company contributed , and how much you sent ( if any ) from other sources besides payroll deduction . You will also have to know how much money was withdrawn from the HSA and how much was used for medical purposes . The last month rule is for those people who start in the middle of the year . If you start partway through the year you are allowed to make the maximum contribution if you still have it at the end of the year , and <URL> . The Last Month Rule The Last Month Rule states that if you are covered by an HSA eligible health plan on the first day of the last month of a given year , you are considered an eligible individual for the entire year . In turn , you can then contribute to the HSA for that full year . If you are covered by an HDHP on Dec 1st of a given year , you may contribute the maximum for that year . For example , you could begin coverage and open up my HSA in November of a given year . Come December 1st , you are covered and per the Last Month Rule , considered an eligible employee for that full year . That allows you to contribute up to that year 's contribution limit , even waiting a few months to make a prior year contribution if you like . Back up the truck and load up the HSA ! However , there is a catch . The Testing Period The Testing Period states if you use the Last Month Rule , you must remain an eligible individual ( covered by HDHP ) for the following 12 months . If you fail to remain an eligible individual ( change insurance plans , lose insurance plan , receive other health coverage ) any " extra " contributions you made as a result of the Last Month Rule will be taxed and penalized . If you contribute per the Last Month Rule and end your HDHP insurance within 1 year , you will have to pay tax on any excess contributions you were allowed to make and pay a 10 % penalty . In this case , " excess " contributions are determined by the contribution limit / 12 months , compared to your time eligible .
Interest would be calculated as where A = ending amount , P = principal , r = rate , n = number of times compounded per T , t = time rate is over ( usually year ) . So solving for P where A = 116971.41 , r = .06 , n = 365 , t = 90/365 ( so nt = 90 ) would give you You should end up with a number just over $ 115,250 .
I believe that capital gains do affect AGI , but if she sells $ 40k of stock , then the AGI does n't go up by $ 40k , it only goes up by the gains ( gross proceeds of the sale minus cost basis ) . So if she paid $ 30k for that stock , then the AGI goes up by $ 10k not $ 40k .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
The card usually comes with an insurance and protects you if you have reported a fraud with a few days of its happening . Mostly its a 60 or a 90 day reporting period . The refund though would only arrive after the completion of full investigation and this might take some time . Do make sure that everything you do with the bank from here on is on paper or atleast in written . Ask them for a time frame by which this case would be clarified and boy make them write it on a mail or a bank letterhead . Make sure you have the name of the person dealing on the case . If they do n't give you any answer or money within the given timeframe launch a complaint on the Financial Ombudsman Service website and they will make take care of it from there . <URL>
While I 've never used Wall Street Survivor , I took a look over the marketing materials and I 've seen multiple similar contests run among investment interns also just out of college . I see some good here and some bad . First off , I love interactive web-based tutorials . I 've used one to learn the syntax of a new programming language and I find the instant feedback and the ability to work at your own pace very useful . The reviews seem to say that Wall Street Survivor is a good way to learn the basics of how trading stocks works and the lingo . Also , it seems pretty fun which <URL> . Wall Street Survivor will hopefully teach you that there are many real stock markets and that they may have somewhat different prices and they likely take the real and timely data from a single market . Wall Street Survivor also frightens me . The big problem that I see with interns running similar contests is that the market is extremely random over short to medium periods of time . An intern can make an awful portfolio or even pick stocks at random and still win the contest . These interns know a lot about the randomness in markets already so they do n't believe they are trading geniuses because they won a contest , I 'm not sure there is much to temper this view on this web-site . Also , while Wall Street Survivor teaches you about trading it does n't appear to teach you about investing . The website appears to encourage short term views and <URL> and does n't seem to simulate the full trading costs ( including fees ) that would eat away at the gains of a individual investor that trades that much . It gives some help with longer term thinking like diversification , but also seems to encourage trading that makes Wall Street Survivor more money , but are likely detrimental to the user . I would say have fun with Wall Street Survivor . Let it teach you some things about trading , but do n't give the site much if any money . At the same time , pick up a copy of short book called " <URL> " and start learning about investing at the same time . Feel free to come back to Stack Exchange with questions along the way .
As someone who 's currently shopping for some winter wheels and has the raised blood pressure to go with that , I 've got a few suggestions as to what would make me pick up the phone and call your or email you if you 're advertising a vehicle . Keep in mind that if you 're willing to deal with the additional hassle , you 'll normally get the most money for a used car if you sell it privately . If it is worth the additional effort though is both a matter of judgement and if you 're willing to put up with strange people like me :) . Depending on the value of the vehicle and its rarity/desirability , you 're looking at newspaper ads ( probably wo n't get you much of a response these days ) , craigslist , Autotrader and similar , and last but not least , ebay . If you 're trying to sell something that 's easy to find because there are five at every street corner ( think beige minivan ) , skip ebay . If it 's worth below 5k-6k , I would n't bother with places where you have to pay to advertise , which leaves CL for the cheap stuff - that said , I 'd still stick it on CL if it 's advertised in other places . Heck , it 's free after all . The figure out what sort of money you 're asking for . Check the resources like KBB.com and have a look at your local CL for similar vehicles . Out here , certain types of vehicles ( for example , Jeeps ) sell quickly and often above even KBB.com . A little market research will help you come up with a good price . Just do n't do things like asking a massively inflated price for a vehicle because you paid $ x five years ago . All this shows that you have no idea what your vehicle is worth . Oh , and I 'd always work out what the minimum I 'd take is - leave yourself some haggle room but do n't undersell the vehicle . Once you know where you advertise and for how much , pull together the basic facts for your vehicles and the points that would make it stand out . Basic facts about the car should include engine size , type of transmission , if it 's AWD ( where applicable ) , mileage . Color I can see on the pictures , but it 's nice to include that , too . If you have service records , recently replaced a big ticket item ( think transmission or similar ) or had a very recent service , especially a big one where you had a timing belt and waterpump changed , mention it . Do n't say the vehicle has a new engine if that was put in 100k miles ago , that 's nice to mention but it 's not new . If nobody 's ever smoked in it , mention it . If it 's got other outstanding features ( super low mileage , summer only use etc ) make sure to mention it that , too . Next , if it 's got any faults that you know of - especially obvious ones - disclose them . People like me will most likely find the leaking shock absorber and the rust holes in the floor anyway , and it makes a much better impression if you do tell us about them beforehand . Trying to tell someone that your banana-shaped car that looks like the Blue Man Group used it for practise is actually pristine and accident-free is n't going to go down very well . Next , pull together the paperwork - make sure you 've got the title ( if there is a lien on the title , check with the lienholder before advertising the car so you know their procedure for releasing the title ) , any maintenance records you have , manuals , receipts etc. . If the vehicle has a salvage title , try to find out why and mention it in the ad . I 've just had a comedian phone me while I was driving to see his vehicle and leave a message that he did n't have a title and did n't seem to be willing to bother to get one , either . Obviously that put me in the right frame of mind , given that it was a 200 mile round trip . So do n't do it - if you ca n't get a title , the schmuck you sold it to will have even less of a chance of getting one . And given that you are in California , a lot of people ( including myself ) react really badly to three years ' worth of back registration , missing smog , expired registrations on something I 'd expect to test drive etc. . Essentially anything that would stop a potential cash buyer to drive it away on the spot . Next , clean the car - you know , the five years ' of accumulated McD wrappers and inch thick layer of dirt ( I 'm only partially kidding , I 've seem some pretty horrible stuff recently ) . Spend the two hours it takes to clean it or pay to have it valeted or detailed . Clean , shiny cars sell a lot better than a rolling recycling container . Oh , and last - make the effort take some decent photos . The more the merrier , shot in daylight ( no photographing a black car after sunset ) and if there is any damage , an additional photo or two showing the damage would be nice . Stick the on photobucket or similar and put the links in your craigslist ad so you do n't restrict yourself to the microscopic photos that you normally get on there . As to payment , I 'd either take cash , meet the buyer at his bank where he draws out a cashiers check in front of your eyes , or , well , cash . No Kauri shells , deeds on bridges in Brooklyn or anything else . Be prepared to take a deposit - a
Regarding transferring a residential investment property into your SMSF , no you can not do it . You can not transfer residential property into your SMSF from a related party . You can only transfer Business Real Property ( that is commercial or industrial property ) into a SMSF from a related party . You can buy new residential property inside your SMSF , and you can also borrow within the fund ( using a non-recourse loan ) to help you buy it , or you could buy it as tenants-in-common with your SMSF ( that is you own say 50 % in your own name and 50 % under the SMSF ) . Regarding self-managing the investment properties held in your SMSF , yes you can , but you should make sure all your paperwork is in order ( all your t 's crossed and your i 's dotted ) . You can even charge your SMSF for managing the properties , but this should be at market rates ( not more ) .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
end question
start question
Where does the money go when I buy stocks ?
When you buy a share of stock , you are almost always buying from someone who previously purchased that share and now wants to sell it . The money -- minus broker 's fee -- goes to that other investor , which may be a person , a company ( rarely the company that issued the stock , but that will occasionally be the case ) , an investment fund , the " market maker " for that stock ( websearch for definition of that term ) , or anyone else . They owned a small percentage of the company ; you bought it from them and gave them the money for it , just as you would buy anything else . You do n't know or care who you bought from ; they do n't know or care who they sold to ; the market just found a buyer and seller who could agree on the price . There are a very few exceptions to that . The company may repurchase some of its own shares and/or sell them again , depending on its own financial needs and obligations . For example , my own employer has to purchase its own shares periodically so it has enough on hand to sell to employees at a slight discount through the Employee Stock Ownership Program . But you generally do n't know that 's who you 're selling to ; it happens like any other transaction . And during the Initial Public Offering , if you 're lucky/privileged enough to get in on the first wave of purchases , you 're buying from the investment bank that 's managing this process ... though that 's an almost vanishingly rare case for " retail " investors like us ; we 're more likely to get the shares after someone has already pushed the price up a bit . But really , when you buy a share the money goes to whoever you bought it from , and that 's all you can know or need to know .
Usually , you can buy ETFs through brokerages . I looked at London to see if there 's any familiar brokerage names , and it appears that the address below is to Fidelity Investments Worldwide and <URL> indicates that you can buy securities . Any brokerage , in theory , should allow you to invest in securities . You could always call and ask if they allow you to invest in ETFs . Some brokerages may also allow you to purchase securities in other countries ; for instance , some of the firms in the U.S. allow investors to invest in the ETF HK :2801 , which is not a U.S. ETF . Many countries have ETF securities available to local and foreign investors . <URL> appears to help point people to brokers in London . Also , <URL> on this site ( a UK investor who 's invested in the U.S. through Barclays ) .
" Smart money " ( <URL> , <URL> ) is simply a term that refers to the money that successful investors invest . It can also refer to the successful investors themselves . When someone tells you to " follow the smart money , " they are generally telling you to invest in the same things that successful investors invest in . For example , you might decide to invest in the same things that Warren Buffett invests in . However , there are a couple of problems with blindly following someone else 's investments without knowing what you are doing . First , you are not in the same situation that the expert is in . Warren Buffett has a lot of money in a lot of places . He can afford to take some chances that you might not be able to take . So if you choose only one of his investments to copy , and it ends up being a loser , he is fine , but you are not . Second , when Warren Buffett makes large investments , he affects the price of stocks . For example , <URL> . As soon as this purchase was announced , the price of Apple stock went up 4 % from people purchasing the stock trying to follow Warren Buffett . That having been said , it is a good idea to watch successful investors and learn from what they do . If they see a stock as something worth investing in , find out what it is that they see in that company .
When you buy a share of stock , you are almost always buying from someone who previously purchased that share and now wants to sell it . The money -- minus broker 's fee -- goes to that other investor , which may be a person , a company ( rarely the company that issued the stock , but that will occasionally be the case ) , an investment fund , the " market maker " for that stock ( websearch for definition of that term ) , or anyone else . They owned a small percentage of the company ; you bought it from them and gave them the money for it , just as you would buy anything else . You do n't know or care who you bought from ; they do n't know or care who they sold to ; the market just found a buyer and seller who could agree on the price . There are a very few exceptions to that . The company may repurchase some of its own shares and/or sell them again , depending on its own financial needs and obligations . For example , my own employer has to purchase its own shares periodically so it has enough on hand to sell to employees at a slight discount through the Employee Stock Ownership Program . But you generally do n't know that 's who you 're selling to ; it happens like any other transaction . And during the Initial Public Offering , if you 're lucky/privileged enough to get in on the first wave of purchases , you 're buying from the investment bank that 's managing this process ... though that 's an almost vanishingly rare case for " retail " investors like us ; we 're more likely to get the shares after someone has already pushed the price up a bit . But really , when you buy a share the money goes to whoever you bought it from , and that 's all you can know or need to know .
Robinhood seems interesting . Some say it 's a gimmicky site with a nice UI not an investing or trading platform . From <URL> : 1 . For now , the app stays afloat for mainly two reasons . First , the business itself is extremely lean : no physical locations , a small staff , no massive public relations campaigns and only one operating system platform to maintain . Robinhood also generates interest off of unused cash deposits from user accounts according to the Federal Funds rate . 2 . Second , venture capitalists such as Index Ventures , Ribbit Capital , Google Ventures , Andreessen Horowitz , Social Leverage , and " many others " have invested more than $ 16 million in the app . 3 . According to Barron 's , Robinhood plans to implement margin trading in 2015 , eventually charging 3.5 % interest for the service . E * Trade charges 8.44 % for accounts under $ 25,000 . Phone assisted trading will also be available at $ 10 per trade in the future . 4 . Originally , Robinhood planned to make money off of order flows -- a common tactic used by discount brokerages in the 199 0s to generate revenue . According to the company 's FAQ , Robinhood backpedaled on the idea because it executes orders through a clearing partner and , as a result , receives little to no payment for order flow . The company is willing to return to its original plan in the future if it receives order flows directly or begins to generate a lot of revenue from them .
These are <URL> allocated to the plan . If necessary , a company issues new shares ( depending on a company it may require shareholders or only board approval ) .
In a money market fund , one share is worth $ 1 . For your fund , you 'll earn $ 0.0010 a year per share , or 0.10 % . That is all that you will earn . The APY is just another number to represent this interest rate , not a separate income stream . If you were expecting extra money from a separately credited dividend , you were mistaken . ( Usually the APY is a slightly different number than the interest rate , to reflect the way that the interest is compounded over the course of the year . In this case the compounding is too slight to notice with just 2 decimal places . ) If you were investing in a regular savings account , you would see the rate you are paid expressed as an APY also , but not as a dividend ( as no shares are involved ) and use that number to compare the two . If you were buying a bond fund or stock fund that did not have a fixed price , you could calculate the dividend yield based on the current stock price , but you would not probably see an APY listed . Money market funds are kind of an odd hybrid of ' fund ' and ' savings ' , so they list both .
The penny/pink sheet stocks you tend to see promoted are the ones a ) with small public floats or , b ) they are thinly traded . This means that any appreciable change in buy/sell volume will have an outsized effect on the stock 's share price , even when the underlying fundamentals are not so great . Promoters are frequently paid based on how much they can move a stock 's price , but such moves are not long-lasting . They peter out when the trading volumes return to more normal ranges for the stock because all of the hype has died out . There are some small-cap NASDAQ stocks which can be susceptible to promotion for the same reason -- they have small floats and/or are thinly traded . Once someone figures out the best targets , they 'll accumulate a position and then start posting all kinds of " news " on the web in an effort to drum up interest so they can sell off their position into the buying that follows . The biggest problem with penny/pink sheet stocks is that they frequently fail to publish reliable financial statements , and their ownership is of a dubious nature . In the past , these types of stocks have been targeted by organized crime syndicates , which ran their own " pump and dump " operations as a way to make relatively easy money . This may still be true to some extent today . Be wary of investing in any publicly-traded firm that has to use promoters to drum up investor interest , because it can be a serious red flag . Even if it means missing out on a short-term opportunity , research the company before investing . Read its financials , understand how it has behaved through its trading history , learn about the products/services it is selling . Do your homework . Otherwise you are doing the investing equivalent of taking your money and lighting it on fire . Remember , there 's a good reason these companies are trading as penny/pink sheet stocks , and it generally has nothing to do with the notion ( the promoters will tell you ) that somehow the " market has missed out on this amazing opportunity . " Pump and dump schemes , which lie at the heart of almost all stock promotion , rely on convincing you , the investor , that you 're smart enough to see what others have n't . I hope this helps . Good luck !
You 're looking for a <URL> . Discount brokers " charge clients significantly lower fees than traditional brokerage firm but without providing investment advice . Discount brokers typically allow investors to buy and sell securities on-line while offering comparatively fewer services and/or support . " To use one of your examples , <URL> allows you to trade stocks , ETF 's , mutual funds , bonds , options , futures , currencies , etc. . Depending on what securities you choose to trade and what discount broker you use , you may still have to pay commissions and satisfy margin requirements . Some investment firms like E-Trade , Fidelity , etc. will also offer full investment management and brokerage services , but you 're not required to pay for them or take advantage of them . Another thing to keep in mind is that if you 're just starting out investing and only have a small amount of money to invest , commissions could quickly eat up all of your profits if you buy and sell fairly frequently . <URL> may give you a little more guidance for investing small amounts in securities like mutual funds instead of individual stocks , bonds , etc. . You might find the answers to these questions helpful as well : <URL> <URL> Some of the answers specifically refer to stock trading , but if you 're unsure about which securities a specific brokerage firm allows you to trade , a quick online search for " &#60; brokerage firm &#62; investment choices " should clear up the confusion . Alternatively , just call the firm and ask or surf their website .
Without getting into whether you should invest in Gold or Not ... 1 . Where do I go and make this purchase . I would like to get the best possible price . If you are talking about Physical Gold then Banks , Leading Jewelry store in your city . Other options are buying Gold Mutual Fund or ETF from leading fund houses . 2 . How do I assure myself of quality . Is there some certificate of quality/purity ? This is mostly on trust . Generally Banks and leading Jewelry stores will not sell of inferior purity . There are certain branded stores that give you certificate of authenticity 3 . When I do choose to sell this commodity , when and where will I get the best cost ? If you are talking about selling physical gold , Jewelry store is the only place . Banks do not buy back the gold they sold you . Jewelry stores will buy back any gold , however note there is a buy price and sell price . So if you buy 10 g and sell it back immediately you will not get the same price . If you have purchased Mutual Funds / ETF you can sell in the market .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
Couple of factors here to consider : 1 ) The savings vehicle 2 ) The investments Savings Vehicle : Roth IRAs allow you the flexibility to save for retirement and/or your house . Each person can save up to $ 5,500 in a Roth and you can withdraw your principal at anytime without penalty . ( There is a special clause for first time home buyers ; however , it limits the amount to $ 10k per person . Given your estimate of $ 750k and history of putting down 20 % . It would require a bit more . ) The only thing is that you ca n't touch the growth or interest . When you do max out your Roth IRA , it may make sense for you to open a brokerage account ( 401Ks often have multiple steps in order to convert or withdraw money for your down payment ) Investments : Given your timeline ( 5-7 years ) your investments would be more conservative . ( More fixed income ) While you should stay diversified ( both fixed income and equity ) , the conservative portfolio will allow less fluctuation in your portfolio value while allowing some growth potential .
As per the SIPC website : Most customers can expect to receive their property in one to three months . When the records of the brokerage firm are accurate , deliveries of some securities and cash to customers may begin shortly after the trustee receives the completed claim forms from customers , or even earlier if the trustee can transfer customer accounts to another broker-dealer . Delays of several months usually arise when the failed brokerage firm 's records are not accurate . It also is not uncommon for delays to take place when the troubled brokerage firm or its principals were involved in fraud . Source link : <URL>
You have the cause and effect backwards , the interest rate is the driver , not the bond price . The value of a bond goes down when interest rates rise , and the value of a bond goes up when interest rates fall . Note that this is only the value if you want to SELL a bond , if you intend to hold it to maturity the value is unchanged . The reason for the change is basically an adjustment to compete with new issues at the current rate . Lets say you have a 10,000 bond that is paying 5 % . That means your yearly return on the bond is $ 500 . Then lets say rates rise to 6 % , and you want to sell the bond . You need to make your bond as attractive to buyers as a new issue , why would someone buy your bond when they could spend the same amount on a new issue and make $ 600 per year ? Or to think of it another way , they could spend $ 8333.33 and get the same $ 500 return as your bond is yielding . So to be competitive with new issues , the selling price of your bond would have to be aprox $ 8333.33 On the other hand , if interest rates fall , then to get the same return , someone would have to invest $ 12500 , making your bond worth more than it 's face value . Those numbers are simplified because they do n't take into account the maturity date of the bond and the face value when the bond matures . The actual fluctuation is less than the above numbers , but I wanted to keep the math simple for the moment to get the concept across . Bond funds face similar pressures . The way to avoid this is to buy and hold bonds to their maturity , when they are paid off at face value . The gain or loss in value does not affect you if you do not sell the bond before maturity .
Can you put a more specific example . Normally there are multiple workflows involved ; however the common theme is that a reference number ties it together . For example , in PayPal , if you need to transfer money from your Bank account to the PayPal account , you first have to log into PayPal and enter the details , they will then generate a payment instruction [ this has the details of PayPal account and reference number ] that you would go and submit to your Bank . The reference number goes back to PayPal and they know the money if from you . Other way is to have PayPal debit your account directly held at the bank , in this case they already know which PayPal account to credit and hence when the debit is successful , they will credit your account . Similar scheme of things apply to various Merchants , you specify some mututally agreed reference number that would allow the Merchant to match the payment your make to you .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
I had a <URL> when I graduated college a few months ago , and these are the estimates I first used , with a few tweaks . 35 % of salary as a rough estimate of total taxes . For a salary of $ 70K , that 's $ 24,500 a year . The current contribution limit to an IRA/Roth IRA is $ 5,500 a year . As a recent college grad , it 's definitely smart to max this out . I estimated that my rent would cost $ 1,000 a month , which included rent , utilities , internet , etc. so that 's another $ 12,000 a year . This can vary considerably depending on where you live and your style of living , however . Bankrate has a <URL> that might be helpful in estimating your monthly housing expenses . Your employer will probably match your 401K contributions up to a certain percentage , e.g. 6 % . If you contribute enough to get the entire match , but not more , this is another 6 % of your salary , or 4,200 a year . If you purchase health insurance through your employer , your individual premiums may be a couple hundred a month . My employer has excellent benefits , and my premiums run $ 150 a month , or $ 1,800 a year . This does n't even include copays , deductibles , possibly dental coverage , etc. . Some people still use their parents ' insurance until their 26 , but this does n't work for everyone . Transportation expenses . These may be around $ 100/month , or $ 1,200 a year , if you take public transportation , or considerably more if you have car payments , auto insurance , etc. . I do n't have a car , so I do n't know rough estimates of these numbers off the top of my head . Other recurring expenses , like a cell phone , web hosting , etc. . Some cell phone plans can be $ 100 a month , or $ 1,200 a year . Others can be much cheaper , but this depends on what type of phone and plan you need/want . Even if you ignore the last two items , this leaves you with a grand total of 70 - 24.5 - 5.5 - 12 - 4.2 - 1.8 = $ 22,000 a year , or approximately $ 1,833.33 a month . Whether or not this is enough for you depends on a ) how the expenses above vary based on where you live , b ) how much you spend on food , clothing , entertainment , travel , etc. c ) how much you choose to save/invest in addition to the savings mentioned above . Some employers have better benefits than others , though , so some of the expenses mentioned above may be partially or completely subsidized . Also , as I said before , some or all of these expenses may vary considerably based on your lifestyle and location , but they 're rough estimates . And of course , it 's wise to keep an emergency fund of at least six months of living expenses , in case you lose your job , have an unexpected medical situation , etc. . Keep in mind that I 'm really answering the question " Where does a salary go for a recent college graduate ? " I do n't speak from experience , but once you start a family , you 'll probably have higher medical insurance premiums , possibly a mortgage payment and the associated costs ( maybe mortgage insurance , appliance repairs , etc. ) , savings for your childrens ' education , and higher expenses in every other category ( food , clothing , etc. ) too .
Safe deposit boxes are rented out to customers , and their content is not bank 's property . Money deposits are not being taken by the creditors if a bank goes bankrupt , for the same reason - its not bank 's money , it belongs to the depositors . However , frequently banks go bankrupt because they do not have enough cash at hand to pay back the depositors . In this case , unless insured ( up to $ 250K in the US , EUR100K in EU ) , some or all of the deposits may not be immediately ( or even at all ) available . Depositors become creditors of the bank in the bankruptcy proceedings . Safe deposit box , however , is rented to the customer , and the content is not removed by the bank to be used elsewhere , as happens with monetary deposits . So even if the bank is bankrupt and does n't have enough money to cover the monetary deposits , the content of the safe deposit boxes does n't magically disappear , and the owner can get it back . The access to the deposit box itself may be limited due to the bankruptcy , but the content will remain there waiting for its owners . In the United States , when a bank goes bankrupt , FDIC takes over it and its assets . Safe deposit box rental contract is an asset . It is taken over by the FDIC and will be sold to a buyer ( usually as a part of the whole branch where the box is located ) , who will continue operating/servicing it .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
end question
start question
Buying a home - whether to pay large downpayment or invest funds elsewhere ?
As weird as it seems , 5 years is not a long term investment . Furthermore investing is about accepting risk . Based on your criteria for the alternative to a down payment , I think your only choice is to make the larger down payment . However If however , you were willing to invest that money for the long term ( in a retirement account or an educational account for example ) then I would definitely encourage you to invest . I think the chance that a long term investment in a diversified investment account will exceed 3.25 % is pretty high . However , that is only my opinion , and I am not clairvoyant , so your let your personal tolerance to risk be your guide . In summary But again , based on the way you asked it , down payment all the way . Your time frame means you are not an investor . Therefore your only option for risk free storage of money is an FDIC insured account , which might pay a little less than 1 % for the next 5 years . A bigger down payment will have a 3.25 % return in this case . Also , make sure the following is true : Taking any match available at work via a 401K No unsecured debt ( like credit cards ) or bad debt ( high interest car loans or student loans ) A fully funded emergency fund that is 6 months of your expenses . Especially important if you own a house . Pay off any other loan ( student loan , car payments or peronal debt ) Maxing out a Roth IRA if you are eligable Maxing out a Traditional IRA Spending some of your money to have fun . In that order . # 4 and # 5 could be swapped if the interest rate on the loans is really low .
There is no absolute answer to this as it depends on your particular situation , but some tips : Invest as much as you can for retirement . In your first job you may be on the low end of the pay scale , but you have something much more valuable ... Time . Do n't underestimate how much impact compounding can do to your retirement savings by putting the bulk of it in a decade sooner . As to investing versus saving , you need to do some of both : First accumulate 3-6 months of living expenses in a savings account and do n't touch it unless you have a bona-fide emergency ( like losing your job or major medical expenses ) Next , Contribute at least as much to your 401k as your company will match , any less and you are turning away free money . Next , Pay down debt as quickly as possible on credit cards and depreciating assets ( like cars ) . Max out the 401k and/or other tax sheltered retirement accounts as much as possible . You may be at the low end of the pay scale now , but believe it or not you probably have more disposable income than you ever will later when kids/family get into the picture . Also you have TIME on your side and money invested over time is a very powerful tool to get rich . Do not wait until you " make enough " to save for retirement . Save whatever you can now . Be careful about stockpiling too much in bank accounts . Inflation will eat that money up over time to the tune of 3-4 % / year . You are young and have a longer investment horizon for retirement , take advantage of that and accept a little more risk while you can .
Emergency fund first . Period . The interest you pay on the HELOC until you have the emergency savings fund is like buying insurance . It 's an expense you incur until you can afford to bear the risk yourself ( here the risk is of a personal liquidity crisis ) . When you have enough in your emergency fund to be comfortable , start using whatever amount you were putting into savings to pay down the HELOC . Alex B is right that paying off the HELOC is a guaranteed return , but your emergency fund is not an investment -- it 's your safety net .
I think you 're on the right track with that strategy . If you want to learn more about this strategy , I 'd recommend " The Intelligent Asset Allocator " by William Bernstein . As for the ber -- Tuber portfolio you linked to , my only concern would be that it is diversified in everything except for the short-term bond component , which is 40 % . It might be worth looking at some portfolios that have more than one bond allocation -- possibly diversifying more across corporate vs government , and intermediate vs short term . Even the Cheapskate 's portfolio located immediately above the ber -- Tuber has 20 % Corporate and 20 % Government . Also note that they mention : Because it includes so many funds , it would be expensive and unwieldy for an account less than $ 100,000 . Regarding your question about the disadvantages of an index-fund-based asset allocation strategy : It requires discipline to execute . If you let your actual allocation stray too far from the target allocation , you do n't get all of the advantages of diversification . If you select the wrong allocation you can end up with poor performance . As a rough general rule , the more poorly correlated assets you assemble into your portfolio , the lower risk you can expect for a given expected return . Discipline again : if one of your assets takes a dive and you panic , sell , and let the money sit in cash , then you lose out on gains when that asset recovers in price . It takes experience and discipline to be able to buy stocks during times like November 2008 or October 2001 .
First , before we talk about anything having to do with the credit score , we need the disclaimer that the exact credit score formulas are proprietary secrets that have not been revealed . Therefore , all we have to go on are broad generalities that FICO has given us . That having been said , the credit card debt utilization portion of your score generally has at least two components : an overall utilization , and a per-card utilization . Your overall utilization is taken by adding up all your credit card debt and all your credit limits and dividing . Using your numbers above , you are sitting at about 95 % . The per-card utilization is the individual utilization of each card . Your five cards range in utilization from 69 % to 100 % . Paying one card over another has no affect on your overall utilization , but obviously will change the per-card utilization of the one you pay first . So , to your question : Is it better on the credit score to have one low-util card and one high-util card , or to have two medium-util cards ? I have n't read anything that definitively answers this question . Here is my advice to you : The big problem you have is the debt , not the credit score . Your credit card debt should be treated like an emergency that needs to be taken care of as quickly as you possibly can . Instead of trying to optimize your credit score , you should be trying to minimize the number of days until all of your credit cards are completely paid off . The credit score will take care of itself once you get your financial situation back on track . <URL> about the order in which one should pay off their debts , but the fact of the matter is that the order is not as significant as the intensity at which you pay them all off . Dedicate yourself to getting rid of the debts as fast as possible , and it wo n't matter much which order they get paid off in . Finally , to answer your question , I recommend that you <URL> instead of trying to pay them off evenly . Not because it will optimize your credit score , but because it will help you focus your debt-reduction energy as you work on resolving your debt emergency . Fortunately , the <URL> , so once you pay all of these off , the utilization portion of your score will get better immediately , and the path you took to get there will be irrelevant . After the credit cards are completely paid off , and you have resolved never to spend money that you do n't have again , it is time to work on the student loans ...
Buying the right shares gives higher return . Buying the wrong ones gives worse return , possibly negative . The usual recommendation , even if you have a pro advising you , is to diversify most of your investments to reduce the risk , even though that may reduce the possible gain . A mutual fund is diversification-in-a-can . It requires little to no active maintenance . Yes , you pay a management fee , but you are n't paying per-transaction fees every time you adjust your holdings , and the management costs can be quite reasonable if you pick the right funds ; minimal in the case of computer-managed ( index ) funds . If you actively enjoy playing with stocks and bonds and are willing/able to accept your failures and less-than-great choices as part of the game , and if you can convince yourself that you will do better this way , go for it . For those of us who just want to deposit out money , watch it grow , and maybe rebalance once a year if that , index funds are a perfectly good choice . I spend at least 8 hours a day working for my money ; the rest of the time , I want my money to work for me . Risk and reward tend to be proportional to each other ; when they are n't , market prices tend to move to correct that . You need to decide how much risk you 're comfortable with , and how much time and effort and money you 're willing to spend managing that risk . Personally , I am perfectly happy with the better-than-market-rate-of-return I 'm getting , and I do n't have any conviction that I could do better if I was more involved . Your milage will vary . If folks did n't disagree , there would n't be a market .
It depends on the deal : and you did n't give any details . That said , there are some things that stand out regardless , and some more specific answers to your questions . First , Mortgage rates ( at the bank ) are absurdly low right now . Like 4 % -5 % ; less than 4 % for excellent credit . You say your credit is ok , so unless your landlord is willing to do a deal where they get no benefit ( beyond the price of the house ) , the bank is the way to go . If you do n't have much for a down payment , go with an FHA loan , where you need only 3.5 % down . Second , there is another option in between bank mortgage and rent-to-own . And that is that where your landlord " carries the note " . Basically , there is a mortgage , and it works like a bank mortgage , but instead of the bank owning the mortgage , your landlord does . Now , in terms of them carrying all of it , this is n't really helpful . Who wants to make 3-4 % interest ? But , there is an interesting opportunity here . With your ok credit , you can probably get pretty close to 4 % interest at the bank IF the loan is for 80 % LTV ( loan to value ; that is , 20 % equity ) . At 80 % LTV you also wo n't have PMI , so between the two that loan will be very cheap . Then , your accommodating landlord can " carry " the rest at , say , 6-7 % interest , junior to the bank mortgage ( meaning if you default , the bank gets first dibs on the value of the house ) . Under that scenario , your over all interest payment is very reasonable , and you would n't have to put any money down . Now for your other questions : If we rent to own are we building equity ? Not usually . Like the other posters said , rent-to-own is whatever both parties agree on . But objectively , most rent-to-own agreements , whether for a TV or a house , are set up to screw the buyer . Sorry to be blunt , and I 'm not saying your landlord would do that , this is just generally how it is with rent to own . You do n't own it till you make the last payment , and if you miss a payment they repo the property . There is no recourse because , hey , it was a rental agreement ! Of course the agreements vary , and people who offer rent to own are n't necessarily bad people , but it 's like one of those payday loan places : They provide a valid service but no one with other options uses them . If we rent to own , can we escape if we have to ( read : ca n't pay anymore ) . Usually , sure ! Think about what you 're saying : " Here 's the house back , and all that money I paid you ? Keep it ! " It 's a great deal if you 're on the selling side . How does rent to own affect ( or not ) our credit ? It all depends on how it 's structured . But really , it comes down to are they going to do reporting to the credit bureaus ? In a rent-to-own agreement between individuals , the answer is no . ( individuals ca n't report to a credit bureau . it 's kind of a big deal to be set up to be able to do that )
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
You need to contact the institution that is holding your current account , have them sell your fund investment , and then close your account and send you a check for the balance . Then you can <URL> ( or call 800-319-4254 ) . You do n't need an account with an online broker unless you want to be able to invest in funds outside the Vanguard family . Fees will depend on the institution that you are currently using and the fund . With some funds you have to pay a " load " ( percentage of your assets , in the neighborhood of a couple of percent ) when you redeem shares . Your institution may charge you a fee for redeeming the fund ( anywhere from $ 0/free to maybe $ 40 or higher ) . Some institutions will charge a fee for closing the account . ( I 've seen anything from $ 0/free to $ 40 , but I have n't looked around in a while . ) As MrChrister points out in a comment below , this is not the best method for an IRA . In that case , you 'd want to make a transfer , and I 'd recommend calling both your current institution and Vanguard ( or wherever you end up transferring funds to ) for forms and instructions on how best to do it .
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in  220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " .  220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
Typical costs to buy might include : 1000 or so in financing costs ( including title fees etc. ) couple hundred for inspection any moving costs probably some repairs and new furniture after moving in One piece of advice if you 've never bought , fixing problems with a house always seems to cost more than the discount in price due to the problems . Say the house needs a 15K new kitchen it seems like it will be just 7K cheaper than a house with a good kitchen , that kind of thing . Careful with the fixer uppers . Costs to sell include : 3 % to seller 's agent and 3 % to buyer 's agent any repairs and landscaping you were putting off potentially staging or professional cleaning any repairs the buyer demands after inspection , that you agree to and of course you have the buying costs again for the replacement house Doing your own cleaning , repairs , moving , etc. can save a lot . You can also choose to work without an agent but I do n't know how wise it is , especially for a first time buyer . In my town there are some agents that are buyers only , never seller 's agents , which helps keep them unconflicted . Agent commissions may be lower in some areas or negotiable anywhere . Real estate transfer taxes may be owed by buyer or seller depending on location : <URL>
If you are looking for numerical metrics I think the following are popular : Price/Earnings ( P/E ) - You mentioned this very popular one in your question . There are different P/E ratios - forward ( essentially an estimate of future earnings by management ) , trailing , etc. . I think of the P/E as a quick way to grade a company 's income statement ( i.e : How much does the stock cost verusus the amount of earnings being generated on a per share basis ? ) . Some caution must be taken when looking at the P/E ratio . Earnings can be " massaged " by the company . Revenue can be moved between quarters , assets can be depreciated at different rates , residual value of assets can be adjusted , etc. . Knowing this , the P/E ratio alone does n't help me determine whether or not a stock is cheap . In general , I think an affordable stock is one whose P/E is under 15 . Price/Book - I look at the Price/Book as a quick way to grade a company 's balance sheet . The book value of a company is the amount of cash that would be left if everything the company owned was sold and all debts paid ( i.e. the company 's net worth ) . The cash is then divided amoung the outstanding shares and the Price/Book can be computed . If a company had a price/book under 1.0 then theoretically you could purchase the stock , the company could be liquidated , and you would end up with more money then what you paid for the stock . This ratio attempts to answer : " How much does the stock cost based on the net worth of the company ? " Again , this ratio can be " massaged " by the company . Asset values have to be estimated based on current market values ( think about trying to determine how much a company 's building is worth ) unless , of course , mark-to-market is <URL> . This involves some estimating . Again , I do n't use this value alone in determing whether or not a stock is cheap . I consider a price/book value under 10 a good number . Cash - I look at growth in the cash balance of a company as a way to grade a company 's cash flow statement . Is the cash account growing or not ? As they say , " Cash is King " . This is one measurement that can not be " massaged " which is why I like it . The P/E and Price/Book can be " tuned " but in the end the company can not hide a shrinking cash balance . Return Ratios - Return on Equity is a measure of the amount of earnings being generated for a given amount of equity ( ROE = earnings / ( assets - liabilities ) ) . This attempts to measure how effective the company is at generating earnings with a given amount of equity . There is also Return on Assets which measures earnings returns based on the company 's assets . I tend to think an ROE over 15 % is a good number . These measurements rely on a company accurately reporting its financial condition . Remember , in the US companies are allowed to <URL> if approved by the government so be careful . There are <URL> who simply do n't follow the rules and report whatever numbers they like without penalty . There are many others . These are just a few of the more popular ones . There are many other considerations to take into account as other posters have pointed out .
He was most likely talking about <URL> ' mutual fund called <URL> . It lists January 1 , 1934 as its inception date , which is just over 78 years ago . As shown at the link above , it lists its cumulative annualized returns as of December 31 , 2011 to be 11.97 % ( not taking any loads into account ) . It does appear to be a relatively popular fund , with over 3.5 million shareholder accounts and over $ 50 billion in net assets . The fund is targeted primarily at American large-cap equities , and is actively managed . Commensurate with that , its expenses are higher than index funds ( the actual expense ratio and/or loads depend upon the share class that you choose ; the above link shows information for class A shares , which carry a somewhat hefty front-end load ) ; it 's up to you to choose between a higher-cost , actively-managed fund ( and hope that the managers are good at picking stocks ) versus a low-cost indexing approach promoted by companies like Vanguard . You 'll find people on both sides of that fence . However , as JoeTaxpayer already pointed out , the average return of the market over the same time period was very similar , or even better ( I 'm not sure exactly how the calculator he referenced arrived at the number ; the S&amp;P 500 did n't exist in its current form until 1957 ) , so it 's not clear that the management of this fund has added value from a total return standpoint . Depending upon your risk appetite , however , it may be worth looking a bit deeper to compare the fund 's volatility with that of the overall market ; a similar return with lower volatility might be desirable .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
Couple of factors here to consider : 1 ) The savings vehicle 2 ) The investments Savings Vehicle : Roth IRAs allow you the flexibility to save for retirement and/or your house . Each person can save up to $ 5,500 in a Roth and you can withdraw your principal at anytime without penalty . ( There is a special clause for first time home buyers ; however , it limits the amount to $ 10k per person . Given your estimate of $ 750k and history of putting down 20 % . It would require a bit more . ) The only thing is that you ca n't touch the growth or interest . When you do max out your Roth IRA , it may make sense for you to open a brokerage account ( 401Ks often have multiple steps in order to convert or withdraw money for your down payment ) Investments : Given your timeline ( 5-7 years ) your investments would be more conservative . ( More fixed income ) While you should stay diversified ( both fixed income and equity ) , the conservative portfolio will allow less fluctuation in your portfolio value while allowing some growth potential .
If you know that your tax situation is not easily handled by the standard withholding table then you can use that line to ask for additional funds be withheld . You could also ask for less money to be withheld . Why would somebody do this ? They had a small side business that made them extra income , and wanted to withhold extra money from their full time job to cover the extra income . They might have been awarded a big bonus and it caused too much in taxes to be withheld so they wanted to not have as much taxes from their regular pay check . Given the fact that you are young , in your first real job , and almost the entire tax year ahead of you , it is likely that the standard tax tables will be close enough . So leave the line blank or put zero .
end question
start question
What impact does trading in a car have on your credit score ?
Paying off your loan in full will most likely not help your credit score , and could potentially even hurt it . Because car loans are installment loans ( and thus differ from consumer credit ) , lenders really only like seeing that you responsibly pay off your loans on time . They do n't really care if you pay it off early -- lenders like seeing open lines of credit as long as you manage them well . The hard inquiry will simply lower your credit score a few points for up to two years . So , from a credit score perspective , you 're really not going to help yourself in this scenario ( although it 's not like you 're going to be plummeting yourself either ) .
Could it possibly be detrimental and possibly negatively impact my cash secured cards from " maturing " to unsecured cards ? In theory moving could impact getting an unsecured card , but that is going to be if you move to a state where the company does not offer unsecured cards . But if you are just looking to move off campus not out of state then this should not be an issue . Could it possibly lead to me being turned down if I wanted to increase my credit lines or apply for a new loan ( like a car loan , a new phone contract etc ? ) Moving itself will not affect this . However moving creates expenses and opportunities to create debt . Having more debt impacts your debt/income ratio . That can impact your credit score ( both positively and negatively ) . So it can indirectly affect these but will not directly affect them .
The formulas used by the three major credit bureaus ( Experian , TransUnion , Equifax ) are proprietary trade secrets . They 're each slightly different , and are fed differing data , so your " score " is likely to deviate from bureau to bureau . A Google search for " Credit Score Estimator " returns several pages of links to FICO estimation web apps . Be careful ; you 're feeding personal information about your credit history into these sites in many cases . I just ran through <URL> , which does not ask for any identifying information , and estimated my score to within 40 points , and is accurate as of the last time I checked my actual scores .
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
If you mean closing credit card accounts it will hurt your credit score in two ways : 1 ) It will reduce your available credit , which in turn will increase the utilization percentage of your credit if you owe a balance on any other card . 2 ) It will reduce the average age of your open accounts unless it was the last card you obtained .
Do n't cancel a card then apply for a new one from the same place . Ask The bank if you can switch to a different card program . If you are a good customer they will do so willingly . It keeps your account as an active customer . I have noticed that in the last few years the bank has been adamant that I should witch to a different program . When it is to my advantage I have done so . The only thing that changes is the words on the card , account number , expiration date and security code . There is no hit to my credit score . In fact with all the data breaches in the last few years every one of my card has undergone an account number change anyway .
I 've heard that for the first few years , I 'll only be paying down the interest of the mortgage , and not the principal Interest-only mortgages might be available to you , but otherwise that 's not correct . For a repayment mortgage , the lender calculates ( on the counter-factual assumption that the interest rate will not change through the life of the mortgage ) how much you need to pay each month to ensure that the principal will be paid down to zero after the agreed amortization period . So in the first month the principal is $ 80k , the interest is some fraction of that , I will call it X . You pay your monthly payment , Y , and Y-X is deducted from the principal . In the second month the interest is a fraction not of $ 80k , but of $ 80k + X - Y . So in the second month the interest is slightly less than X , but your monthly payment is still Y. Thus in the second month the principal is reduced by slightly more than Y-X , and so on . Eventually in the final month of the mortgage you pay off 100 % of the remaining principal . An interest-only mortgage is simply one for which ( by agreement with the lender ) Y = X . That is , the monthly payments do not pay down the principal , ever . At the end of the mortgage you have to find the full amount loaned , because you still owe the bank the full amount . If you end a repayment mortgage early then the lender uses this system of regular monthly interest charges and regular monthly payments to calculate your remaining principal . Then they 'll add any administration charges or early repayment penalties on top of that calculated principal . Whenever the interest rate changes ( or the mortgage otherwise changes ) your monthly payment is re-calculated to still hit your target repayment date , and the bank tells you your new payment . As an issue of mathematics and in particular the effects of compound interest , it turns out that if the mortgage is amortized over a long period , you do n't pay off much in the first 5 years . You do pay off something , but it 's small enough that people will say , as an approximation , that in the early years you " do n't pay off the principal " . soakley shows some example figures , it depends on the interest rate and the repayment period . So , if it were really true that you only pay off interest in the first 5 years ( for example if the mortgage you choose to take is an interest-only mortgage ) , then at the end of 5 years your equity in the house would be the value of the house less the $ 80k that you still owe to the bank . Looking at it another way , your equity is your $ 20k up-front payment plus all of any increase in the value of the house ( or minus all of any decrease , as the case may be ) . Assuming no change in the value of your house : $ 100k asset minus $ 80k debt equals $ 20k equity . However if you have a repayment mortgage then you will in fact pay off a small amount in the first 5 years and so your equity will be more than $ 20k assuming no change in the value of the house . Note also that there 's no question of " shares " in the value of the house . People talk about the bank owning 80 % of their house but that 's not true ( except in less common arrangements such as Islamic mortgages ) . You will own 100 % of the house and owe the bank $ 80k ( less whatever you 've paid down ) . That 's why all of the increase or decrease in the value of the house is yours .
There are several distinctions that need to be made in order to properly address this question . For one the make and model needs to be considered . Each such make and model have different rates of depreciation . Another is the age of a car made in comparison . You cite a two year old car , but the variables will be quite different if you buy one that is five years old , then one that is ten or two . Also a well maintained five year old car can easily also last 10 years , the time you cite owning of a new car . However , in general , these are the things to consider in evaluating the risk : 1 ) Asset loss . If you own the vehicle to term , and sell , you will realize the loss of an asset . You buy a 30K car , and in 10 years it will probably be worth around 5K . About 2500 per year . You will lose less buying a 2 year old car , and driving it 8 years . To really avoid asset loss buy a 10 year old car and drive it for 3 to 5 years . 2 ) Being forced to sell prior to term . While there is probably not much difference in the asset loss of owing a new car 10 years , and owning a 2 year old car 8 years you might be required to sell prior to the term in question . Most often this will happen because of destruction of a vehicle . A loss in the first couple of years of ownership is especially devastating because of the rapid declining in values . 3 ) Higher ancillary costs . When you pay more for a new car , that sales tax amounts to something . Additionally you may pay higher insurance or licensing fees . In some occupations or status in life you may be better owning a newer car . Salesmen who have to portray a level of wealth in order to make sales should drive only late model " clean " cars . The same may hold if you are single and on the hunt for a mate . In short there are a lot of assumptions and variables one has to make . Very difficult comparison to make . However , if you save up and pay cash for a car , you know you can afford it !
The FICO score is an invention of one company , FICO ( formerly called Fair Isaac ) . The exact formula is a trade secret that the company does not reveal . This allows them to maintain a monopoly on FICO scores . The only way to know what your real FICO score is is to ask that single company what it is . They will not tell you , or anyone else , how to calculate it yourself , beyond the rough percentage guidelines you mentioned .
Demat account does not impact your score . Trading account will impact only if you have taken margin and not paid , unlikely for retail accounts . Having trading and demat account and not using does not impact CIBIL score .
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
Even without seeing your score or other detail , the obvious thing you are lacking is time . Five years is n't very long . High credit scores take a lot of history . It is n't just what is in your history that counts , but also how long that history is . Getting on the right track is good , but there is a distance to go on it too .
<URL> would be the general idea of maintaining a specific mix when investing , as something you do n't mention is how much cash do you have to invest as if what you invest in keeps dropping as Joe Taxpayer points out then you 'd be buying and buying and possibly never selling and thus do n't profit . For example , if you bought Detroit bonds a few years ago and then bought more as they went down then the city declared bankruptcy that could mean quite the loss for some people .
Mr. Sethi is 100 % correct , within reason . Open a few cards , but try to limit it to one or two per quarter . Lenders like , in this order : People who pay on time . People with long histories of paying on time . People who have an good credit utilization ratio . Lots of available credit and low utilization will not hurt you from a credit point of view . But ... lenders will close unutilized credit lines eventually .
In the long term , Loss or Theft of your credit card ( whether used or not ) will not affect your credit report or score . You are not liable for the charges made and your credit report is the report of your credit usage . Not the report of an identity theft 's use of credit . That being said , in the short term fraudulent charges and accounts could be opened which will be reported to your credit report ( and affect your credit score ) until you contact the Fraud Victim departments of the appropriate accounts and report the error . You would also contact the credit reporting bureaus and have them remove the offending accounts . Unfortunately , this is the victim part of identity theft and while it will have no long term affect , it may take a while to clear this up . I 've had identity theft problems crop up during a home loan refinancing . While the theft did not stop my refinance , it did cause me to take extra steps to convince them I did n't own a home in another state where the loan paperwork used my social security number . Someone else using my social security number for a mortgage and a credit card did not affect my credit score at all in the long term , but did cause me some minor headaches in the short term .
No , at least not noticeably so . The majority of what HFT does is to take advantage of the fact that there is a spread between buy and sell orders on the exchange , and to instantly fill both orders , gaining relatively risk-free profit from some inherent inefficiencies in how the market prices stocks . The end result is that intraday trading of the non-HFT nature , as well as speculative short-term trading will be less profitable , since HFT will cause the buy/sell spread to be closer than it would otherwise be . Buying and holding will be ( largely ) unaffected since the spread that HFT takes advantage of is miniscule compared to the gains a stock will experience over time . For example , when you go to buy shares intending to hold them for a long time , the HFT might cost you say , 1 to 2 cents per share . When you go to sell the share , HFT might cost you the same again . But , if you held it for a long time , the share might have doubled or tripled in value over the time you held it , so the overall effect of that 2-4 cents per share lost from HFT is negligible . However , since the HFT is doing this millions of times per day , that 1 cent ( or more commonly a fraction of a cent ) adds up to HFTs making millions . Individually it does n't affect anyone that much , but collectively it represents a huge loss of value , and whether this is acceptable or not is still a subject of much debate !
Apparently , if you keep your tires ' air filled to the recommended level , your car will burn less gas . I loved <URL> at WikiHow , which confirmed what I had heard about air in tires , and had others to suggest , such as removing unnecessary items from inside and on your car ( such as bike racks , trailer balls ) as they can add to your car 's overall weight , causing more drag and using more gas .
From Wikipedia - To calculate the value of the S&amp;P 500 Index , the sum of the adjusted market capitalization of all 500 stocks is divided by a factor , usually referred to as the Divisor . For example , if the total adjusted market cap of the 500 component stocks is US$ 13 trillion and the Divisor is set at 8.933 billion , then the S&amp;P 500 Index value would be 1,455.28 . From a strictly mathematical perspective , the divisor is not canceling out the units , and the S&amp;P index is dollar denominated even though it 's never quoted that way . A case in point is that the S&amp;P is often said to have a P/E , and especially an E , the earnings attributed to one ' unit ' of S&amp;P . And if you buy a mutual fund sporting a low expense ratio , you can invest exactly that much money ( the current S&amp;P index value ) and see the dividends accrue to your account , less the fee .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
After more research , I think I 've determined the solution . My actual , 30-page credit report from Experian has a section for " Potentially Negative Items or Items for Further Review " . There is one account in this section -- the one that had a late payment several years ago . This account was also closed 0.5 years before I originally asked this question . So the actual credit report is accurate . The problem is how the Experian website interprets and summarizes the report : when an account with negative information closes ( or maybe even just changes ) , they present it as if that 's the date that the negative information occurred .
end question
start question
What is the difference between Child Benefit and Child Tax Credit ?
In broad terms , Child Benefit is a universal benefit paid to anyone earning up to # 50-60 ,000 a year * whilst Child Tax credit is primarily means tested ( for no/low incomes really ) . Both are payable provided the young person is under 20 ( not 18 ) and is in full time non advanced ( up to " A level " standard ) education or certain types of training . Child benefit is reduced in stages if someone in the household has a taxable income over # 50,000 , down to 0 at # 60,000 . Child Tax Credit is being phased out and replaced as a part of " Universal Credit " . It 's quite specific and a little complex so read the official sites : - Child Benefit <URL> - Child Tax Credit <URL> Another site worth trying is <URL> ( not a government site ) but it will point out any benefits , etc that you may be ' entitled to ' from all the available government resources . Do n't be afraid to call HMRC for advice - they 're pretty good when they eventaully answer ! And Citizens Advice and Money Advice Service are free resources that are always handy . Google gave me these as good results : <URL> and <URL> from the well-respected Which ? site . I must end with a disclaimer though : everyone 's situations are different and the benefits system here in the UK is very complex at times . Always seek proper advice and use this type of forum merely as a pointer to the ball-park area . Best of luck .
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae both do essentially the same thing : they repackage mortgages into investments ( aka mortgage-backed securities ) and sell those securities to investors . If a mortgage borrower defaults , it affects the value of the securities . Ginnie Mae performs the same function as Freddie and Fannie , except they only deal with government-insured mortgages , such as those backed by the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) . Example : If a FHA mortgage borrower defaults , FHA and Ginnie Mae continue to make payments to those who invested in Ginnie Mae securities . Due to the subprime crisis , Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 's securities lost a lot of value . Those who invested in Freddie/Fannie bonds lost money . Both corporations had to be taken over by the government and placed in a conservatorship . Ginnie Mae 's securities , on the other hand , remained relatively stable due to the government guarantee on them . Investors in Ginnie Mae bonds did not lose money . However , if any Ginnie Mae mortgage borrowers default , the extra payments the government has to make to investors in order to compensate comes out of tax dollars , thus everyone is affected in a way .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Straight from the <URL> ; Applying for a Social Security card and number for your newborn is voluntary . But , your child needs a Social Security number if you plan to -
Federal taxes are generally lower in Canada . Canada 's top federal income tax rate is 29 % ; the US rate is 35 % and will go to 39.6 % when Bush tax cuts expire . The healthcare surcharge will kick in in a few years , pushing the top bracket by a few more points and over 40 % . State/provincial taxes are lower in the US . You may end up in the 12 % bracket in New York City or around 10 % in California or other " bad " income-tax states . But Alberta is considered a tax haven in Canada and has a 10 % flat tax . Ontario 's top rate is about 11 % , but there are surtaxes that can push the effective rate to about 17 % . Investment income taxes : Canada wins , narrowly . Income from capital gains counts as half , so if you 're very rich and live in Ontario , your rate is about 23 % and less than that in Alberta . The only way to match or beat this deal in the US in the long term is to live in a no-income-tax state . Dividends are taxed at rates somewhere between capital gains and ordinary income - not as good a deal as Bush 's 15 % rate on preferred dividends , but that 15 % rate will probably expire soon . Sales taxes : US wins , but the gap is closing . Canada has a national VAT-like tax , called GST and its rate came down from 7 % to 5 % when Harper became the Prime Minister . Provinces have sales taxes on top of that , in the range of 7-8 % ( but Alberta has no sales tax ) . Some provinces " harmonized " their sales taxes with the GST and charge a single rate , e.g. Ontario has a harmonized sales tax ( HST ) of 13 % ( 5 +8 ) . 13 % is of course a worse rate than the 6-8 % charged by most states , but then some states and counties already charge 10 % and the rates have been going up in each recession . Payroll taxes : much lower in Canada . Canadian employees ' CPP and EI deductions have a low threshold and top out at about $ 3,000 . Americans ' 7.65 % FICA rate applies to even $ 100K , resulting in a tax of $ 7,650 . Property taxes : too dependent on the location , hard to tell . Tax benefits for retirement savings : Canada . If you work in the US and do n't have a 401 ( k ) , you get a really bad deal : your retirement is underfunded and you 're stuck with a higher tax bill , because you ca n't get the deduction . In Canada , if you do n't have an RRSP at work , you take the money to the financial company of your choice , invest it there , and take the deduction on your taxes . If you do n't like the investment options in your 401 ( k ) , you 're stuck with them . If you do n't like them in your RRSP , contribute the minimum to get the match and put the rest of the money into your individual RRSP ; you still get the same deduction . Annual 401 ( k ) contribution limits are use-it-or-lose-it , while unused RRSP limits and deductions can be carried forward and used when you need to jump tax brackets . Canada used to lack an answer to Roth IRAs , but the introduction of TFSAs took care of that . Mortgage interest deduction : US wins here as mortgage interest is not deductible in Canada . Marriage penalty : US wins . Canadian tax returns are of single or married-filing-separately type . So if you have one working spouse in the family or a big disparity between spouses ' incomes , you can save money by filing a joint return . But such option is not available in Canada ( there are ways to transfer some income between spouses and fund spousal retirement accounts , but if the income disparity is big , that wo n't be enough ) . Higher education : cheaper in Canada . This is not a tax item , but it 's a big expense for many families and something the government can do about with your tax dollars . To sum it up , you may face higher or lower or about the same taxes after moving from US to Canada , depending on your circumstances . Another message here is that the high-tax , socialist , investment-unfriendly Canada is mostly a convenient myth .
George 's answer is excellent . To expand a bit on " which is better " , just based on my experience with a handful of regional/national banks and a couple different credit unions : Many credit unions are small , local banks . This can be great if you want a personal relationship with CU employees -- you may be able to get flexibility when applying for a loan , for example . The downside is they may not have hours that are as convenient , the online banking may be missing features ( or just plain missing ) , etc -- they just do n't have as much in terms of resources as large national banks . They may not belong to a large ATM network . If you use your ATM frequently you 'll pay more in fees at the terminal . They may not have a " call center " , staffed 24x7 , by people " far away " . You decide whether this is good or bad . Larger credit unions have more resources to cancel some or all of those downsides , but then they have more fees . Large national banks have branches all over , ATMs everywhere , are open at the supermarket on weekends and evenings , and have really slick online banking . You pay for this ( sometimes excessively , it seems ) in fees . When you have to talk to someone , you may be lucky enough to have a personal relationship with someone at your local branch , but you are just as likely to get a drone at a call center who is powerless to actually fix anything for you . Everything I said above for small credit unions goes for small , local banks . What 's " better " or " worse " depends on which of those things above are more important to you .
It 's a matter of keeping contemporaneous records for legitimate income . My daughter started baby sitting at age 11 , and even then , was earning $ 10/hr . I told her that in exchange for keeping a notebook listing the date , name , time , and money earned , I 'd make deposits to her account . It 's important to note that the exact dollar earned does n't have to be deposited , only that there 's income greater than the deposit . It can come from savings or a gift . The limit to deposit is $ 5500 in 2015 or the child 's earned income , whichever is less . For a toddler , aside from modeling/acting , I do n't know what earned income he might have . As he gets older , yard work in the summer or snow shoveling in the winter can both add up fast .
I 've worked on software to model both kinds of retirement accounts -- the RRSP in Canada and the 401 ( k ) in the U.S. -- and here 's what I 've learned about their major similarities and differences : How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are similar : Both are official investment account types created by government and conferring tax advantages designed to encourage you to save for retirement : Both permit pre-tax contributions ; i.e. you can claim an income tax deduction for contributions made to the account during the year . Both enable tax-deferred investment growth . That is , any returns generated in the account are not taxed in the year returns are generated -- rather , they are taxed later upon withdrawal -- hence the " deferred " . This helps compound growth work to your advantage . Both have annual contribution limits designed to prevent you from contributing all of your income into the account . Both generally permit you to invest in a variety of investment products ( e.g. mutual funds , stocks , bonds , CDs / GICS ) -- though what options exactly depends on your plan or broker . Both have ages beyond which withdrawals or conversion to an account type requiring withdrawals is mandatory . ( Required Minimum Distribution rule in the U.S. , and RRIF accounts in Canada . ) How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are different : 401 ( k ) accounts are offered only in conjunction with an employer via payroll deduction . Whereas , in Canada it is possible to have an individual RRSP , as well as a group RRSP from an employer , and payroll deductions are just one way to put money in . In Canada , there are also distinct employer-sponsored Defined Contribution ( DC ) pension plans which are not considered RRSPs ; I understand in the U.S. , most DC plans are 401 ( k ) - type plans . On the other hand , while there are no individual 401 ( k ) in the U.S. , there are Individual Retirement Account ( IRA ) plans , but contribution limits are less generous . 401 ( k ) accounts can optionally offer two additional contribution types : traditional post-tax contributions , and Roth post-tax contributions . Such types of contribution do not exist for RRSPs , where the only contribution type is pre-tax . However , Canada recently introduced the TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Account ) , which behaves similar to U.S. Roth-type accounts . 401 ( k ) contribution allowances are use-it-or-lose-it for the year , but in Canada the RRSP contribution allowances cumulatively carry forward . That is , if you do n't put in your allowed contribution this year , you can put in that amount next year , plus next year 's amount , etc. . Many Canadians have built up lots of unused contribution room , to a point where they could conceivably shelter very large sums in an RRSP -- a symptom of past under-saving . 401 ( k ) accounts have early withdrawal penalties where generally speaking any withdrawal before age 591/2 is penalized with an additional 10 % tax , on top of the regular tax due . However , in Canada , early withdrawals from an RRSP are treated no different than withdrawals made in retirement . 401 ( k ) accounts have " catch-up " contributions permitting individuals age 50 + to contribute additional funds . Canada 's RRSP has no such provision ; perhaps owing to the cumulative contribution allowance I mentioned above . 401 ( k ) accounts are subject to rules for Highly Compensated Employees ( HCE ) , which prevent some top-earners in a company from contributing the maximum if other employees do n't contribute enough . RRSPs do n't have such a requirement . There are many more differences ; e.g. inheritance rules , loans , etc. and I 'm sure they could be uncovered if you look at legislation for each in detail ( and manage not to fall asleep doing so ! ) However , I think I 've covered the most common differences above . Official reference sources : <URL> <URL>
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
Dazed , an RESP is a type of account . Within the RESP , you can have cash , investments or even savings vehicles like GICs etc. . So depending on where you put the money within the RESP , yes , there is a chance of losing money . If you think your children will attend post secondary education , I do n't think that there is a better way to save . The government will match 20 % of your contribution , up to a maximum grant of $ 500 per year . To take advantage of the grant , we contribute $ 2500 per year to obtain the maximum $ 500 grant . Hope this helps !
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
I am going to try to take your questions one at a time : Why there is an investment min This is because the mutual fund company has decided to set this level , although it varies from fund to fund and fund company to fund company . It is usually dictated by the style of the investment and the fund company . Advantages of higher minimums include less record-keeping with small accounts and ensuring that you have " more serious " investors . Plus , mutual funds end up using your money to buy underlying investments , so lots of little amounts are less useful to them , likely . the buying cost is a lot more expensive than buying stocks ? Again , depends on the company and its objectives . I suppose you are less likely to be buying and selling mutual funds more often ( and they like it this way ) , so a larger fee cuts down on day trading and also helps the company make money . There are plenty of fund companies that offer their funds commission-free , however ( such as Vanguard ) . Is the investment min only for the initial buying or do I have to buy at least 10k each time when I want to add more value to it ? A mutual fund company will likely have both a minimum initial investment and a minimum additional investment , although the latter is likely much smaller . So , for example , you may have a $ 10k initial minimum , then a $ 500 minimum additional investment . Do I have to pay the same commission fee every time when I buy more of the same mutual fund ? Likely , yes . There may be exceptions on things like reinvested dividends , but check the details of the mutual fund account . These should be obviously laid out in a fees table . Why is the investment min and commission fees are waived in my 401k account ? This is due to an agreement that your employer has with the provider . Minimums are likely waived since there are a bunch of people at this employer all investing in the same funds . Commissions are waived as a part of the cost of providing the 401k to you .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
There is no conversion , and for low rates , there is n't any difficult math . To get the so-called " real interest rate " , simply subtract the current inflation rate from the interest rate . You can make it more detailed by projecting inflation and interest rates , but then you 'd probably be the best bond fund manager in the world if you could do it accurately and precisely , so it might be best to just stick to the simple rates presented . Therefore , for the CDs you 're comparing , for each one , do :
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
Many of these products are similar in nature and often depend on the issuing bank . Cashier 's Check Are checks signed and guaranteed by the bank . This means the funds are coming from the bank instead of your account -- which usually means they immediately take the money from your account . This is usually the most secure of the options and usually does n't have many restrictions . Certified Check Are checks signed by the customer , certified by the bank that you have enough funds and that your signature is genuine . Usually , but not always - the bank will set aside the funds . Bank Draft Similar to a certified check but the bank will set aside the funds until the bank draft is used . Generally used in transactions involving larger sums . Money order It 's a payment order similar to a certified check ; however , it needs to be prepaid . Also money orders may have maximum face values allowed .
Yes . You did not notice the " $ 1,410 Customer Down Payment " , the " $ 650 Acquisition Fee " , the " $ 350 Disposition Fee " " due at lease termination " , and the " $ 275 security deposit " for customers who do not have good enough credit . Also , " A dealer documentary service fee up to $ 150 may be added to the sale price or capitalized cost . " These charges might ( or might not ) add up to the dealer profit margin . You can negotiate the " Adjusted Capitalized Cost " of " $ 29,841 " , and the " documentary service fee " . By doing so , you can reduce your up-front payment ( and the dealer profit margin ) . The price mentioned above " Includes destination charge , but excludes state and local taxes , tags , registration , title and insurance . " Also , this is a " low mileage lease " . If you choose to not purchase the vehicle at the end of the lease , you " may be charged for excessive wear based on Toyota Financial Services standards for normal use and for mileage in excess of 24,000 miles at the rate of $ 0.15 per mile " .
It 's <URL> in Canada ( <URL> ) . Note that if you are getting a refund , rather than paying more taxes , you can be as late as you want without penalty .
For tax purposes , the IRS treats credit union " dividends " on the same basis as interest payments from banking institutions . The difference between the two is that credit union deposits reflect an ownership stake in the credit union . As a shareholder , you can participate in meetings and may have a voice in credit union governance . Bank deposits are just a liability on the bank 's books . To the average person , there is no real discernible distinction between the two .
end question
start question
Will cibil score increase if I file ITR ?
It does not matter if you have filed your ITR . It will not have impact of your credit score . If otherwise , people who has TDS , their score should be high . But its not the case . The following will only impact your score . How much you owe to banks ? How long you are dealing with credits ? How frequent you are in need of credit ? And primarily , how many times you have missed your payment ?
Short Answer : You 're going to end up paying taxes on it . Despite the home being your primary residence , you do n't meet the ownership test , and it is n't noted that you have had a change in employment , health , or other unforeseen circumstances that are " forcing " you to sell . Otherwise , you could qualify for a reduced maximum exclusion that might allow you to walk away without owing taxes , or with a reduced tax bill . You ca n't even do a 1031 exchange to re-invest into a new primary residence . You should check with a tax professional to see what adjustments you can make to the cost basis of the property to minimize your reported net profits . EDIT : Ownership and Use Tests During the 5-year period prior to the sale , you must have : Owned the house for at least 2 years , and lived in the house as your main home for at least 2 years . These periods do not necessarily have to coincide ( You do n't to live in it as your main house for 2 consecutive years , just 2 years worth of time of the last 5 ) .
It does not matter if you have filed your ITR . It will not have impact of your credit score . If otherwise , people who has TDS , their score should be high . But its not the case . The following will only impact your score . How much you owe to banks ? How long you are dealing with credits ? How frequent you are in need of credit ? And primarily , how many times you have missed your payment ?
Based on the information from <URL> : Will my FICO score drop if I apply for new credit ? If it does , it probably wo n't drop much . If you apply for several credit cards within a short period of time , multiple inquiries will appear on your report . Looking for new credit can equate with higher risk , but most credit scores are not affected by multiple inquiries from auto , mortgage or student loan lenders within a short period of time . Typically , these are treated as a single inquiry and will have little impact on the credit score .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
If you know that your tax situation is not easily handled by the standard withholding table then you can use that line to ask for additional funds be withheld . You could also ask for less money to be withheld . Why would somebody do this ? They had a small side business that made them extra income , and wanted to withhold extra money from their full time job to cover the extra income . They might have been awarded a big bonus and it caused too much in taxes to be withheld so they wanted to not have as much taxes from their regular pay check . Given the fact that you are young , in your first real job , and almost the entire tax year ahead of you , it is likely that the standard tax tables will be close enough . So leave the line blank or put zero .
Demat account does not impact your score . Trading account will impact only if you have taken margin and not paid , unlikely for retail accounts . Having trading and demat account and not using does not impact CIBIL score .
Maryland , Virginia , and Washington DC have a reciprocity agreement . You fill out all your taxes based on where you live not where you work . I have worked for a company headquartered in Maryland , but in the DC office , while living in Virginia . The only tax form was for Virginia . The state W-4 was for Virginia . If you had your employer send your state income tax withholding to the wrong state , you will have to file a form with that state to get that money back . I was never in the situation where I had rental income in one state while living in the other , so I cant answer how that would change things .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
Each ARM has a rate that they follow . There is also an offset from that rate so it may be prime +1 or something similar . You can see if there is movement in that base rate . Each ARM also has a maximum amount they can move in one adjustment , and a maximum rate they can have during the life of the loan . Some arms adjust every year , others adjust less often . You need to check your documents to see what the rules are for your loan . Every ARM is different . If you are concerned about affording the increase you may consider refinancing to a fixed loan . You can also start to prepare by setting aside the extra amount that would be needed into a savings account to pretend the higher rates have already happened .
I presume you mean your monthly food budget is $ 100 , not $ 500 . The key word is budget , not monthly . If you expect to use the whole $ 500 of credits eventually , and you have enough cash to make that purchase while leaving yourself sufficient reserves for your other needs of course you should take advantage of the 20 % discount . If this would crimp your style , you have to make a decision about how much you are willing to sacrifice to save $ 100 . That ai n't chump change , even by today 's standards . And remember that , since you 're budgeting , you can distribute the pain across multiple months . Would you pay an extra $ 25 for four months to get $ 200 back in the fifth month ? Of course if you really ca n't afford to pay in advance ( where you need to decide what " afford " means ) , this option simply is n't available to you . And if you do n't think you 'll spend all $ 500 on things which accept this campus cash ( maybe you 'll be cooking for yourself or eating off-campus ) , it may not actually save you anything and indeed may tie up money that you would have used elsewhere . You need to decide whether you can afford to make that up-front investment , based on weighing the cost now against the savings later . That is n't a decision we can make for you . Note that it also depends on how well-priced and well-prepared the school 's offerings are ! Btw , this is an exercise in what is known as " opportunity cost " Buying in advance ( assuming you can afford to do so ) ties up that money for a while and thus may cost you the opportunity to do something else with it . You need to make an educated guess about how much that will inconvenience you and whether that cost is worth the gain .
Unless they 're the actual employers , the I-9 is none of their business . Your employer must verify your eligibility for employment on the first day of your employment , i.e. : when you find a job you 'll have to fill I-9 anyway . The only reason I can think for them to do it is to verify that you 're eligible for employment before they waste any time on searching for a job for you . I 'm not sure if they 're legally allowed to ask for your status , so maybe that 's their way of working around that . I do n't think they can require you to fill I-9 , and in fact I 'm not sure if its even legal for them to obtain that information without actually being your employers . IMHO , that is , consult with an attorney if you want a proper legal advice .
In the U.S. , <URL> is known as the tax return . This is the form that is filed annually to calculate your tax due for the year , and you either claim a refund if you have overpaid your taxes or send in a payment if you have underpaid . The form is generally due on April 15 each year , but this year the due date is April 18 , 2016 . When it comes to filing your taxes , there are two questions you need to ask yourself : " Am I required to file ? " and " Should I file ? " Am I required to file ? The <URL> has a section called " Do I have to file ? " with several charts that determine if you are legally required to file . It depends on your status and your gross income . If you are single , under 65 , and not a dependent on someone else 's return , you are not required to file if your 2015 income was less than $ 10,300 . If you will be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's return , however , you must file if your earned income ( from work ) was over $ 6300 , or your unearned income ( from investments ) was over $ 1050 , or your gross ( total ) income was more than the larger of either $ 1050 or your earned income + $ 350 . See the instructions for more details . Should I file ? Even if you find that you are not required to file , it may be beneficial to you to file anyway . There are two main reasons you might do this : If you have had income where tax has been taken out , you may have overpaid the tax . Filing the tax return will allow you to get a refund of the amount that you overpaid . As a student , you may be eligible for student tax credits that can get you a refund even if you did not pay any tax during the year . How to file For low income tax payers , the IRS has a program called <URL> that provides free filing software options .
No , as per the Ontario FAQ on the HST . <URL> It does note that some of the services that condo buildings purchase will be subject to HST , so the condo fee itself might have to change , but therefore indirectly , as opposed to being subject to the tax itself .
Yes , it is a very good idea to start your credit history early . It sounds like you have a good understanding of the appropriate use of credit , as a substitute for cash rather than a supplement to income . As long as you keep your expenses under control and pay off your card each month , I see no problems with the idea . Try to find a card with no annual fees , a low interest rate if possible ( which will be difficult at your age ) , and with some form of rewards such as cash back . Look for a reputable issuing bank , and keep the account open even after you get a new card down the road . Your credit score is positively correlated with having an account open for a long time , having a good credit usage to credit limit ratio , and having accounts in good standing and paid on time .
Short answer - Look at the paperwork . Closely . Likely answer - closing costs . Depending on how the loan is structured , you might have to pay an origination fee for the loan , plus local taxes and a whole bunch of fees ( title insurance for the mortgage broker , local taxes , etc , on my ) I 'm in the midst of a refinance right now , but I 'm looking at lowering my APR on a 30 year loan 1 % , with flat fees + taxes being about 1.4 % of my loan amount . 1.5 % of your loan amount is only $ 5325 . Its likely that you may be being charged 3 % fees , which is not great . Also , with rates this low , why are you choosing a 2.7 % ARM ? I hope you 've gone the math in thinking about how much your rate might adjust in 5 years ( I 'm wary of ARMs in general , esp since I 'm getting a 3.875 % 30 year loan . A kindly suggestion - if you dont/didnt understand the fees up front , read the paperwork very closely before signing . You might be getting ripped off .
Yes , there has been speculation in the Australian media for a while regarding Negative Gearing and whether it should be abolished or not . It is being pursued by various interest groups including Welfare Australia and <URL> . In fact it was actually abolished ( temporarily ) by treasurer Paul Keating in 1986 . After house prices started falling and rents increasing it was reinstated again by Paul Keating in 1988 . Most politicians are too worried about the voter backlash they will face if they do abolish NG . However , I agree with <URL> that it will eventually have to be abolished , and I think this time for good or else future governments will struggle to pay for the needs of an aging population ( including pensions and health needs ) . What you have to understand however , if NG was abolished it does not mean that you can not claim costs on your property against the rent you receive on it . For example , at the moment with NG , if your annual gross rent is $ 10,000 and your total costs including depreciation is say $ 15,000 , then you can use the additional $ 5,000 in expenses against your other income and thus reduce the amount of tax you pay for that year ( if your marginal tax rate was say 30 % then you would pay $ 5,000 x 0.30 = $ 1,500 less in tax for that year ) . If instead NG was abolished , your income from the rental would be zero ( as you would deduct $ 10,000 of your expenses from the $ 10,000 gross rent ) , and the remaining $ 5,000 in expenses you would carry over to when you start actually making a positive income from your rent . If you sell the property before you start making positive income , then your carryover expenses would be added to your cost base and reduce the capital gains tax you have to pay . This could make shorter term speculation in property less favourable and many novice investors who do n't really understand the concept of NG ( and are only allured into property investing with NG due to advice from their accountant , their friends and property spruikers ) may be deterred from investing in properties in the future . Also some might see that their benefits of owning an investment property may diminish , and will ask : why should I keep this property if I have to put money in it every month but do n't get any tax benefits anymore ? These people may end up selling their investment properties . Thus you will have less demand on investment properties and a greater supply of properties on the market . This will definitely lead to a drop in property prices , for the short to medium term anyway . I think once people start to learn about other strategies regarding investment properties ( that do n't rely on NG ) , then demand and prices will pick up again . Rents may go up initially ( especially in low vacancy areas ) , as less properties will be available for rent , thus higher demand with low supply . But once again I think this will be for the short to medium term , as the higher yields ( lower prices and higher rents ) will be attractive to investors preferring positive geared properties . And once the spruikers come up with new strategies and marketing material to attract the novice investor , you will get demand and prices for properties increasing again and rents stabilising over time .
You may not need all of these , but if you have them , you should have everything the mortgage people will ever ask for . Recent bank statements from all of your banks ( including brokerage accounts ) The last two years of W2 's A copy of your driver 's license A copy of your social security card The last two years of tax returns Your last two paystubs A copy of the signed sales contract A copy of the cancelled check you provided for down payment . If you own more than 25 % of a business , the last two years of tax returns for the business
My knowledge is mostly of US laws and rules , so I ca n't say for sure what applies to Canada You do not usually check your credit score , you usually check your credit report . Your score is the calculated number that is used to represent you as a single value to a lender , while your report is a list of all the accounts and your standings with them . In the US , you are untitled to a single credit report from each of the three major bureaus once a year . <URL> is the only site you should get your report from . Some people choose to get a report every three months ( once from each bureau ) while others choose to get all three at once . If you have a major purchase or suspect identity theft , definitely get a report and make sure you start clearing it up by writing letters and filing with the forms each of the credit bureaus provides for just that purpose . As for checking your score , I do n't really see the need for it . It is an interesting thing , once you know your report is clean and accurate , you can pretty much guess your number within 50 points . If you are shopping for a major item and plan to finance ( like a car or a house ) try to consolidate all your credit applications around the same couple of week period to prevent the hard lookups from affecting your score . Hard lookups are when you are asking for credit , soft lookups are everything else . Also , unless you KNOW you have been a victim of identity theft , do n't bother with a credit monitoring service . Once you know a baseline that your report is clean , just keep an eye on all your accounts and you should know what your report says . Also , those credit protection and identity theft services that cost $ 10/month do n't do anything that you ca n't do yourself . They write letters to get your off the pre-approved lists , they request a lock on your credit report from the bureaus , and put your phone on the do not call list . All stuff you have the right to do on your own .
end question
start question
Can my spouse and I file jointly if I have an HSA and she has an FSA ?
Yes , you 're allowed to file jointly . To the best of my knowledge there 's no situation where the law forces US tax residents to file MFS even if you want to file MFJ . MFS is always a taxpayer 's choice ( this is not necessary true for non-residents ) .
I would say yes : it 's worth building additional retirement savings on top of a <URL> ( plans that pay set annual income ) . Here are a couple of reasons : Do n't put all your eggs in one basket . While <URL> is probably in good shape , things can and do happen to pension plans . While there is a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan goes bust , your benefits are not 100 % guaranteed . Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide recurring annual income , like your paycheck when you are employed . You ca n't " take more out " from your defined benefit pension plan when an emergency comes up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) are accounts from which you can take out extra in any given year , if necessary . That being said , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save as much in your RRSP as other people who do n't have pension plans : Normally , individuals in Canada are entitled to save 18 % of their earned income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the playing field , individuals who are in a pension plan get a " Pension Adjustment " ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduces their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider using it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , <URL> .
You should not have a problem by filing electronically , IF the pension plan distribution you received was from a pre-tax 401-k type plan , and you rolled all of it into another company 's similar pre-tax type pension plan OR rolled it all into a simple IRA within the IRS specified period of time , which I do n't recall . As long as there are no tax implications to the pension plan distribution , you 'll just need to make sure and keep your tax forms with a paper copy of your electronic return . The yearly wage statement will indicate that you received a pension plan distribution , and if you had no withholding from it because of the rollover , that will be indicated . Similarly , you 'll receive a statement from whomever is now the custodian for your distribution , and that will give you documentation should you ever need to present it to the IRS . There are many special cases , however , which I do not cover e.g. if you did keep some amount of the distribution , or if some was taxable and some was not , and so on .
Contact the IRS to see if your return has been filed . If you can , try to obtain information on your CPA prior to calling , like the PTIN , CAF ( if any ) , CPA number , etc. . It may be in other documents you 've gotten from the CPA - particularly previously filed IRS documents . The IRS has a process and <URL> for complaints against CPAs and preparers . I would be careful not to do much against the CPA until your taxes are filed , either by this CPA or by another CPA ( or preparer or by yourself ) . If you 're resolved to go somewhere else now , then pull that trigger and do n't pay the CPA 's bills until the full amount due is negotiated ( presumably down to zero due ) . You can ask for forgiveness from late penalties if you can show " <URL> " for the lateness . You can also freeze any interest from accruing by estimating and paying your taxes now through <URL> . If the CPA has not told you an amount due , then there 's good reason to believe the return was not filed . However , if you had some arrangement or prior discussion of the amount due , then it may be possible that he submitted your taxes and attached a bank account payment number ( did you provide him one ? ) . You really need to get in contact with the CPA to understand what 's been done , if anything . Try contacting other people in the enterprise , if there are any . If you know other clients of the CPA , contact them . If you were referred by friends or family , use them . If you know where the office is , try going down there ( be direct but never aggressive ) . Remember to file a complaint with the IRS for " preparer misconduct " on Form 14157 . You can file compaints with the state board of accountancy or other responsible licensing agency ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . I believe <URL> is the appropriate form to request abatement of the late penalties ( with brief explanatory attachment ) , but you can review the <URL> and let your next CPA consider it .
It does not matter if you have filed your ITR . It will not have impact of your credit score . If otherwise , people who has TDS , their score should be high . But its not the case . The following will only impact your score . How much you owe to banks ? How long you are dealing with credits ? How frequent you are in need of credit ? And primarily , how many times you have missed your payment ?
You 'll only know if you try . I suspect if you play it cool , it wo n't matter . If they point it out , just say " Oh , look at that ! They must have mistyped it " .
Without more information about what tax bracket you are in , I can not make a recommendation about what your best option is , but here are a few things to consider : You can still contribute to the HSA until April 15th of next year if you have not contributed your allowable maximum ( for the current year that is the annual maximum / 12 * the number of months you were covered by a high-deductible plan ) . Contributions to the HSA are pre-tax and will reduce your tax liability , if you are in a higher tax bracket , the money saved in taxes may outweigh the maintenance fee . If the invested funds are returning better than inflation and the maintenance fees , it does not hurt you to leave the funds in place . Though you may not currently have a high deductible plan available , the health insurance market is moving in that direction and you may find yourself back in a high deductible plan before too long . ( I would wait at least until the next open enrollment to make my final decision . ) The deductible that qualifies is currently $ 1250 single or $ 2500 family If there are any qualified expenses , you can use those funds without incurring further tax and maintenance fees . ( For example if you could benefit from LASIK , that would be one way to empty the account .
There is no " Married " filing status ; there are " Married Filing Jointly " and " Married Filing Separately " . As you are married as of the end of 2016 , you may only file 2016 taxes as Married Filing Jointly or Married Filing Separately ( or in certain situations if you have a dependent , you might be able to choose Head of Household ) , and can not file as Single . You are a resident alien for 2016 , as you pass the green card test . I will assume that your wife has n't been to the US much , so she is a nonresident alien for 2016 , because she does not pass the green card test or the substantial presence test . In this case , there are basically two ways the two of you can do it : File as Married Filing Separately . This basically means you file as Married Filing Separately and she almost certainly does not have to file as nonresident aliens are only taxed on income connected to the US , and I 'm assuming that she does n't have any . Note that the tax calculated for Married Filing Separately is almost always worse than for Married Filing Jointly , especially if the two people 's incomes are very different . File as Married Filing Jointly . Since one of you is a resident alien and the other is a nonresident alien , this will involve using the <URL> election . Your wife will be treated as a resident alien for all of 2016 . As a resident alien , her worldwide income is subject to US tax , and will need to be reported on the tax return , but she should be able to use the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion to exclude the first about $ 100k of her foreign earned income , since she was outside the US for virtually all of the year . If she does n't already have a Social Security Number , she will have to apply for an ITIN together with filing of the tax return . Note that you could also file separately at first , and then ( within 3 years ) amend the tax return to file jointly when it is more convenient ( e.g. after she gets a Social Security Number , so she wo n't have to go through the hassle of applying for an ITIN while abroad ) .
You 'll have to talk to your mortgage lender about that , I doubt there is a ' generic ' answer to it . I do currently have a house in another country that I 'm paying a mortgage on , but the lender was n't too happy with that . They still did accept it , but the bigger problem for me is refinancing it as an investment property when you 're not in the country . Also , it probably depends on what your plans are - are you planning to go abroad for a few years , then return ? Emigrate for good ? Rent out the place while you 're gone ? As I can attest to , even with a local agent a house 5000 miles away can be more of a pain in the posterior than you 'd expect it to be .
SOS is Secretary of State . SOS number is the number the Secretary of State office assigned to your entity . You can find it on the LLC application form that you submitted ( assuming you kept the copy of your application returned to you ) , or by <URL> ( the first column , " entity number " , is what you 're looking for ) .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
No , in the UK you do n't need to pay tax on gifts in general . In theory there could be an <URL> issue . But it 's highly unlikely to apply here . It could only apply at all if all of the below apply : you are n't married to each other you die within 7 years of a gift the total of the money you leave at death plus the gifts in the past 7 years is more than the inheritance tax threshold , currently # 325,000 But even then the allowance would probably count as a " <URL> " and so would be ignored completely : Regular gifts from the giver 's income There 's no Inheritance Tax on gifts from the deceased 's income ( after they paid tax ) as long as the deceased had enough money to maintain their normal lifestyle .
Yes , you 're allowed to file jointly . To the best of my knowledge there 's no situation where the law forces US tax residents to file MFS even if you want to file MFJ . MFS is always a taxpayer 's choice ( this is not necessary true for non-residents ) .
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
So apparently there is no form , you just have to call them .
From the <URL> I think it is fairly clear that it is OK : Can I open a Help to Buy : ISA with someone else ? No . Help to Buy : ISAs are only available to individuals . But , you can put more than one government bonus towards the home you are buying . So , if you are buying a home with someone else who is also a first time buyer , they can open and save money into their own account and receive a government bonus . Inference : if you are buying a home with someone else who is NOT also a first time buyer , they ca n't get their own account and get the bonus ( but there 's no problem with you doing so ) . Alternatively - open the Help To Buy ISA , you 'll still get the normal interest rate on it , and then argue the case with the conveyancer / solicitor once you actually buy the property and claim the Government bonus . In fact , <URL> is the declaration you ( well , specifically , your girlfriend ) would have to sign at the point you jointly make the purchase . Nothing in there that forbids it being a joint purchase with a non-first-time-buyer either .
<URL> covers Moving Expenses . According to Pub 521 , in order to deduct moving expenses , there are <URL> , one of which is called the <URL> : Time Test for Employees If you are an employee , you must work full time for at least 39 weeks during the first 12 months after you arrive in the general area of your new job location ( 39-week test ) . Full-time employment depends on what is usual for your type of work in your area . For purposes of this test , the following four rules apply . You count only your full-time work as an employee , not any work you do as a self-employed person . You do not have to work for the same employer for all 39 weeks . You do not have to work 39 weeks in a row . You must work full time within the same general commuting area for all 39 weeks . Yes , the 39-week employment period is a requirement . However , the 39 weeks do not have to be consecutive nor with the same employer . Also , the 39 weeks do not have to be complete before taking the deduction . Pub 521 goes on further to explain this in the section <URL> . Essentially , you can deduct your moving expenses if you think that you will meet this 39-week requirement over the 12 months following your move . If you decide to take the deduction and then it turns out that you did not meet the 39-week test , you must fix it by either amending your tax return or adding the deduction back in as " extra income " on the next year 's return . Pub 521 also lists <URL> which will get you out of the time test , ( including getting laid off ) , but quitting is not one of them . Since you have already left the area , you will not meet this 39-week test and should not deduct the expenses for that move . However , in moving back to your home state , you have made a new move that might be eligible for deduction , depending on your job situation .
If I recall , you send the 1040X , and only the forms that changed , no need to send entire return or even 1040 .
First off , medical FSAs will let you withdraw the entire FSA right away , even if you have n't contributed the entire amount yet . So you may not need to do a payment plan . If your FSA comes with a debit card , you can just pay it all off with that ( if you have $ 1500 in the account ) and not worry about this . You do n't have to have the funds deposited in the FSA to spend them ( up to your annual contribution amount , of course ) . Second , medical FSAs that do not come with a debit card repay you for what you have already spent , not for what you owe ; so you 're correct , you 'll have to pay it first then get repaid from the FSA . The date you incurred the expense determines when it 's eligible , not when you repaid it ; but you will have a deadline ( typically a few months after your end of year , which is usually either end of calendar year or end of the grace period in march ) to apply for reimbursement ; check your plan details for more detail . It 's also possible the FSA might have some method of paying expenses directly via check , though none of the ones I 've been in have that option .
It 's not enough just to check if your order does n't exceed 10 % of the 20 day average volume . I 'll quote from <URL> : You may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account does n't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the <URL> , not the individual client . This means that if other investors with your broker , or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm , purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at the same time , all of your accounts may face fees , even though individually , you do n't exceed the limits . The NSCC issues a charge to the clearing firm if in aggregate , their orders exceed the limits , and the clearing firm usually passes these charges on to the broker ( s ) that placed the orders . Your broker may or may not pass the charges through to you ; they may simply charge you significantly higher commissions for trading OTC securities and use those to cover the charges . Since checking how the volume of your orders compares to the average past volume , ask your broker about their policies on trading OTC stocks . They may tell you that you wo n't face illiquid charges because the higher cost of commissions covers these , or they may give you specifics on how to verify that your orders wo n't incur such charges . Only your broker can answer this with certainty .
end question
start question
How can I back out excess IRA contributions when my IRA has a zero balance ?
I 'd call the IRS to be sure . but if you can unwind this before your taxes are due you wo n't owe the 6 % tax on your excess contribution . Here 's <URL> with this information . ( Under Excess Contribution Tax . ) I could n't find a direct answer to your question . If this is impractical then you can also ( I believe ) contribute $ 25 less than you 're allowed to in 2011 to the appropriate IRA , and you 're clean . You will owe an extra $ 1.50 in taxes , though . But <URL> . They 've been very helpful to me the times I 've called .
IRA is not necessarily superior . You have to consider all the things together . Here are some potential benefits of not rolling over from 401k to IRA : Investment options . IRA is generally allowed for more variety , but in 401k you may have negotiated rates and the funds you do have there - are cheaper than they could have been if purchased through IRA . You have to check your own plan , because it differs from plan to plan . Fees - 401k may or may not charge fees ( in addition to the expense ratios of the funds ) , and so does IRA . Protections - 401k is protected from creditors under the Federal law , IRAs are protected ( mostly ) under the State law . Check which one is protected better in your State . Loans - 401k may allow loans , IRA never allows loans . Roth conversion - if you want to convert traditional IRA to Roth IRA - your total IRA balance is counted for tax calculation . If you do n't rollover 401k into IRA - you have lower conversion balance = > lower conversion tax . <URL> . A 401 ( k ) permits penalty free withdrawals if you are age 55 or older on separation from employer . The IRA , age 59-1/2 or one needs to look at the Sec 72 ( t ) rules which may not be what you want .
The idea behind a Roth IRA is taxes will go up in the future so you are best off paying less in taxes now than in the future , which is why Roth IRAs are contributed to with post-tax dollars whereas traditional IRAs are contributed to with pre-tax dollars . The theoritical advantage comes when you want to withdrawal your money . With the traditional IRA , when you withdrawal money , you pay ordinary income tax on all withdrawals . With a Roth IRA , all withdrawals ( after the age of 591/2 ) are tax free , including any gains you may have made . To illistrate , with a very simple example , assume you make $ 50,000 and your IRA grows at 5 % for 40 years . Contribution Traditional IRA - $ 5,000 Roth IRA - $ 3,750 ( $ 5,000 after taxes ) Totals after 40 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 Roth IRA - $ 453,000 Withdrawal equally over 15 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 / 15 = $ 40,266 * 75 % ( 25 % tax ) = $ 30,200 / year Roth IRA - $ 453,000 / 15 = $ 30,200 / year First , this was not a contrived example and I was surprised the numbers worked out this way . Second , as you can see with this example there is really no advantage either way unless you by into the theory of higher taxes in the future .
Nothing is stopping you from opening up Roth IRAs in different companies and contributing the maximum to each one , but if you do n't withdraw contributions ( and any earnings generated by the withdrawn contributions while within the IRA ) so as to leave a total contribution of $ 5500 for 2013 , then Yes , you will be penalized . You do not report contributions to a Roth IRA on your tax return , but companies report to the IRS on the IRA accounts they hold , and the contributions and withdrawals/distributions made each year into each IRA account . Each company will send you a copy of the form that it sent in to the IRS so you wo n't be blind-sided in this matter . You will then get a letter from the IRS informing you that you have to pay penalties ( the technical term is a 6 % excise tax ) for over-contributing to your IRA . If you obdurately refuse to remove the excess contributions ( and any earnings generated by the excess contributions ) , that tax will be assessed in the years following too , until the matter is set right . . Note also that the maximum allowable contribution is reduced ( and ultimately eliminated entirely ) for people with high Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) . Some people make a contribution to a Roth IRA each year but then withdraw it in timely fashion when they discover that their MAGI is too high ( often during the preparation of their income tax returns ) .
Either get it as cash or as a balance credit . Unless there 's a specific reason to do something else , these would be the most beneficial options . Using the reward balance towards purchases reduces the rewards you 'd be getting for these purchases . Since the reward used towards the purchase is not your " money spent " , you do n't get the reward on that amount . If you use your credit card to pay the full amount and apply your reward balance to the balance on your card - you 'll get rewards in full for your purchases .
There is no typical return for an IRA . Understand that an IRA is not an investment type , it is just an account that gets special tax treatment by the Federal Government . The money in the IRA could be invested in almost anything including Gold , Stocks , Bonds , Cash , CDs , etc. . So the question as phrased is n't exactly meaningful . It is kind of like asking what is the typical price of things if I use $ 10 bills . As for a 10.6 % annualized return on your portfolio . That 's not a bad return . At that rate you will double your investment ( with compounding ) every 7.2 years . Again , however , some context is needed . You can really only evaluate investment returns with your risk profile in mind . If you are invested in super safe investments like CDs , that is an absolutely incredible return . You compare it to several indexes , which is a good way to do it if you are investing in the types of investments tracked by those indexes .
Conversions are done on a pro-rata basis . If you have n't yet paid tax on the money , you need to do so in the process of converting . Let 's say you have a total of $ 50k in your account : $ 10k in deductible contributions $ 10k in non-deductible contributions $ 20k in 401 ( k ) rollover funds $ 10k in as-yet untaxed earnings If you decide to convert half of this to a Roth ( $ 25k ) , you 'd owe tax on $ 20k of that , because 80 % of your holdings in the traditional IRA have not been taxed yet . The non-deductible contributions have been taxed , so you do n't need to pay tax again on that part . More information is <URL> .
The IRA contribution for the year are allowed until the tax day of that year . I.e. : you can contribute for 2015 until April 15th , 2016 ( or whatever the first business day is after that , if the 15th is a holiday ) . You 'll have to explicitly designate your contribution for 2015 , since some of the IRA providers may automatically designate the current year unless you explicitly say otherwise . If that happens - it will be very hard to fix later , so pay attention when you 're making the contribution . You get a couple of things from your IRA provider : <URL> - details your contributions for the year , account FMV , and RMD details . You can see the actual form <URL> . You do n't always get this form , if you did n't contribute anything and no RMD is required for you . Since the last day to contribute is April 15th , these forms are usually being sent out around mid-May . But you should know how much you 've contributed by the tax day without it , obviously , so this is only for the IRS matching and your record-tracking . <URL> includes information about distributions ( including withdrawals and roll-overs ) . You may not get this form if you did n't take any money out of your IRA . These come out around end of January .
You can contribute to Roth IRA regardless of the foreign income exclusion . You can contribute to Roth IRA only for amounts in excess to FEIE . However , the <URL> for Roth IRA contributions ignores the FEIE . So in your case , if you exclude your income , you would not be able to contribute to the IRA . You can not partially exclude the income . You either take the full exclusion , or none . So instead of exclusion , what you can do is chose to take a Foreign Tax Credit to reduce your US tax liability , and then you 'll be able to contribute to the IRA as you wish .
The I in IRA stands for Individual . You can do a backdoor conversion of all or part of your Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA all by yourself regardless of whether your spouse converts her IRA or not , and the taxable part of the rollover is determined by what your Form 8606 says , not what is on her Form 8606 . But since you file a joint return with your spouse , she will have the ineffable joy of being as liable as you for the income tax that is due on the conversion : on a joint tax return , both spouses are jointly and severally liable for the tax due ( no halfsies ) . If one person does not pay , the other is liable for the entire amount .
Edited in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comment and OP Tim 's additional question . To add to and clarify a little what littleadv has said , and to answer OP Tim 's next question : As far as the IRS is concerned , you have at most one Individual Retirement Account of each type ( Traditional , Roth ) though the money in each IRA can be invested with as many different custodians ( brokerages , banks , etc. ) and different investments as you like . Thus , the maximum $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for older folks ) that you can contribute each year can be split up and invested any which way you like , and when in later years you take a Required Minimum Distribution ( RMD ) from a Traditional IRA , you can get the money by selling just one of the investments , or from several investments ; all that the IRS cares is that the total amount that is distributed to you is at least as large as the RMD . An important corollary is that the balance in your IRA is the sum total of the value of all the investments that various custodians are holding for you in IRA accounts . There is no loss in an IRA until every penny has been withdrawn from every investment in your IRA and distributed to you , thus making your IRA balance zero . As long as you have a positive balance , there is no loss : everything has to come out . After the last distribution from your Roth IRA ( the one that empties your entire Roth IRA , no matter where it is invested and reduces your Roth IRA balance ( see definition above ) to zero ) , total up all the amounts that you have received as distributions from your Roth IRA . If this is less than the total amount of money you contributed to your Roth IRA ( this includes rollovers from a Traditional IRA or Roth 401k etc. , but not the earnings within the Roth IRA that you re-invested inside the Roth IRA ) , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI limit . This 2 % is not a cap ( in the sense that no more than 2 % of your AGI can be deducted in this category ) but rather a threshold : you can only deduct whatever part of your total Miscellaneous Deductions exceeds 2 % of your AGI . Not many people have Miscellaneous Deductions whose total exceeds 2 % of their AGI , and so they end up not being able to deduct anything in this category . If you ever made nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA because you were ineligible to make a deductible contribution ( income too high , pension plan coverage at work etc ) , then the sum of all these contributions is your basis in your Traditional IRA . Note that your deductible contributions , if any , are not part of the basis . The above rules apply to your basis in your Traditional IRA as well . After the last distribution from your Traditional IRA ( the one that empties all your Traditional IRA accounts and reduces your Traditional IRA balance to zero ) , total up all the distributions that you received ( do n't forget to include the nontaxable part of each distribution that represents a return of the basis ) . If the sum total is less than your basis , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI threshold . You can only deposit cash into an IRA and take a distribution in cash from an IRA . Now , as JoeTaxpayer points out , if your IRA owns stock , you can take a distribution by having the shares transferred from your IRA account in your brokerage to your personal account in the brokerage . However , the amount of the distribution , as reported by the brokerage to the IRS , is the value of the shares transferred as of the time of the transfer , ( more generally the fair market value of the property that is transferred out of the IRA ) and this is the amount you report on your income tax return . Any capital gain or loss on those shares remains inside the IRA because your basis ( in your personal account ) in the shares that came out of the IRA is the amount of the distribution . If you sell these shares at a later date , you will have a ( taxable ) gain or loss depending on whether you sold the shares for more or less than your basis . In effect , the share transfer transaction is as if you sold the shares in the IRA , took the proceeds as a cash distribution and immediately bought the same shares in your personal account , but you saved the transaction fees for the sale and the purchase and avoided paying the difference between the buying and selling price of the shares as well as any changes in these in the microseconds that would have elapsed between the execution of the sell-shares-in-Tim 's - IRA-account , distribute-cash-to-Tim , and buy-shares-in-Tim 's - personal account transactions . Of course , your broker will likely charge a fee for transferring ownership of the shares from your IRA to you . But the important point is that any capital gain or loss within the IRA can not be used to offset a gain or loss in your taxable accounts . What happens inside the IRA stays inside the IRA .
Yes , you can recharacterize your new Roth IRA ( started in 2014 ) as a Traditional IRA by April 15 , 2015 . With recharacterization , the earnings within the Roth IRA get transferred over to the Traditional IRA . It is as if you started a Traditional IRA on the day that you made the first Roth IRA contribution i 2014 . If you have already filed your 2014 tax return ( and thus paid income tax on the money sent to the Roth IRA ) , you can file an amended return to claim whatever deduction you are entitled to on the Traditional IRA contribution . ( High earners are not entitled to make deductible contributions to Traditional IRAs but can make nondeductible contributions . Be sure to file Form 8606 to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution . Absent this , that money will be taxed again when it is taken out ) Do not " CANCEL " your Roth IRA , whatever that means . Re-characterize it , and soon , especially if your income is high enough that you are not entitled to contribute to a Roth IRA for 2014 .
Yes , a contribution to a Traditional IRA is an <URL> assuming you meet the requirements <URL> , so you do n't have to itemize to receive it . You only get a deduction for a Traditional IRA ; Roth IRAs are after-tax .
Do I have that same luxury in this situation ? Yes you can do a rollover but watch the 60 day rule , especially if you ca n't just walk into the bank branch to start or complete the transaction . The days the check is in the mail count . The new and the old account will be locked out <URL> , meaning they ca n't be involved in another roll over . They can be involved in a direct transfer , or a transfer . Make sure that it has been a full year since a rollover involving that account . The distribution can be full or partial , and the target account can be new or existing . Make sure that the account types are the same traditional IRA to traditional IRA or Roth to Roth . Otherwise you will be doing a recharacterization which will involve additional forms and taxes . The roll over can bridge from one tax year into another , but make sure the IRS is knows that is the way it worked . If I sell some of my IRA , then later move my bonus into the same account , have I effectively avoided any taxes at all on the IRA withdraw ? From the IRS : The same property must be rolled over . If property is distributed to you from an IRA and you complete the rollover by contributing property to an IRA , your rollover is tax free only if the property you contribute is the same property that was distributed to you . Cash is cash , but you ca n't claim that you deposited X % of the house . If not , can I roll this money into my wife 's IRA to achieve the same result ? Your wife can roll her funds from one account she owns into another account she owns . Thus achieving the same tax free short term borrowing . But you can not move funds from your account into her account . There is mixing of the funds , unless you inherited the account from your spouse . withdraw up to $ 10K from your IRA for a qualified first time residence purchase This could be used as an emergency . If you pulled 25K from the account , but as the sixty day window was about to close , you could only come up with 15K the rest could be considered for the purchase of a 1st home . There are additional rules and timelines involved . Determine if this is possible before making the disbursement .
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
You are not allowed to take a retirement account and move it into the beneficiary 's name , an inherited IRA is titled as " Deceased Name for the benefit of Beneficiary name " . Breaking the correct titling makes the entire account non-retirement and tax is due on the funds that were not yet taxed . If I am mistaken and titling remained correct , RMDs are not avoidable , they are taken based on your Wife 's life expectancy from a table in <URL> , and the divisor is reduced by one each year . Page 86 is " table 1 " and provides the divisor to use . For example , at age 50 , your wife 's divisor is 34.2 ( or 2.924 % ) . Each year it decrements by 1 , you do not go back to the table each year . It sounds like the seller 's recommendation bordered on misconduct , and the firm behind him can be made to release you from this and refund the likely high fees he took from you . Without more details , it 's tough to say . I wish you well . The only beneficiary that just takes possession into his/her own account is the surviving spouse . Others have to do what I first described .
You can convert additional amounts from Traditional IRA to Roth IRA as often as you want . What there is a limit on , is " reconversion " -- if you convert to Roth IRA , then recharacterize it back to Traditional IRA ( undoing the conversion ) , then you are restricted from " re-converting " that money to Roth IRA again in the 30 days after the recharacterization or during the same tax year as the original conversion .
Ultimately it falls on you , since you 'll be the one reporting it on your tax forms ( at the time of redemption , not contribution ) . However , when you transferred the Roth to your new broker he should have inherited the historical contribution information . It may have been an oversight though , as I know my new broker had to specifically ask for that information .
The answer is in <URL> on page 17 On IRS Form 8606 you may enter the non deductible amount on line 1 of the form . The <URL> for <URL> state on page 5 : Taking the deduction is optional if you qualify for the deduction .
end question
start question
How can I find a lost 401K from a past employer ?
The Employee Benefits Security Administration within the US Department of Labor is tasked with keeping track of pension and 401K programs . The even have a website to search for <URL> : it helps participants and others find out whether a particular plan is in the process of being , or has been , terminated and the name of the Qualified Termination Administrator ( QTA ) responsible for the termination . The Employee Benefits Security Administration discuss all types of details regarding retirement programs . This document <URL> has a lot of details including this : If your former employer has gone out of business , arrangements should have been made so a plan official remains responsible for the payment of benefits and other plan business . If you are entitled to benefits and are unable to contact the plan administrator , contact EBSA electronically at askebsa.dol.gov or by calling toll free at 1-866-444-3272 . There are also <URL> spread thought the United States
A few days ago they launched Fannie Mae Guaranteed Multifamily Structures ( <URL> ) but who knows ? It 's a penny stock now . Google Finance is pretty good at marking news right on the chart for a particular stock . That 's how I tracked that piece of news down . Ca n't say that it precipitated a lot of people buying the stock , but Google Finance is n't a bad place to start looking .
No , you can not . You can only deduct expenses that the employer required from you , are used solely for the employer 's ( not your ! ) benefit , you were not reimbursed for them and they 're above the 2 % AGI threshold . And that - only if you 're itemizing your deductions .
Consult a qualified tax professional . I trust that 's what the " silicon valley types " did ... at least those who still have most of their money left . When you speak to a professional , I would expect a couple of things you 'd be made aware of about such a situation in Canada are : You might qualify for a lifetime capital gains exemption . If you are selling shares in a Canadian Controlled Private Corporation ( CCPC ) , then your first $ 750K of gains may be tax free . Tax free . Did you know about the <URL> ? Read up . Conditions apply . Generally , capital gains income in Canada is n't taxed at the regular income tax rate . Rather , <URL> . That is , the tax on the part over the exemption amount ( should you qualify ) would at worst be only half what you assumed . You do n't know what you do n't know , so before you jump to any conclusions about how much you are likely to owe or else start making plans to leave the country , please consult a professional ( or three ) . Do this soon , before the transaction completes , because sometimes you need some time to structure things in the best way .
The Employee Benefits Security Administration within the US Department of Labor is tasked with keeping track of pension and 401K programs . The even have a website to search for <URL> : it helps participants and others find out whether a particular plan is in the process of being , or has been , terminated and the name of the Qualified Termination Administrator ( QTA ) responsible for the termination . The Employee Benefits Security Administration discuss all types of details regarding retirement programs . This document <URL> has a lot of details including this : If your former employer has gone out of business , arrangements should have been made so a plan official remains responsible for the payment of benefits and other plan business . If you are entitled to benefits and are unable to contact the plan administrator , contact EBSA electronically at askebsa.dol.gov or by calling toll free at 1-866-444-3272 . There are also <URL> spread thought the United States
Congratulations on your raise ! Is my employer allowed to impose their own limit on my contributions that 's different from the IRS limit ? No . Is it something they can limit at will , or are they required to allow me to contribute up to the IRS limit ? The employer can not limit you , you can contribute up to the IRS limit . Your mistake is in thinking that the IRS limit is 17K for everyone . That is not so . You 're affected by the HCE rules ( Highly Compensated Employees ) . These rules define certain employees as HCE ( if their salary is significantly higher than that of the rest of the employees ) , and limit the ability of the HCE 's to deposit money into 401k , based on the deposits made by the rest of the employees . Basically it means that while the overall maximum is indeed 17K , your personal ( and other HCE 's in your company ) is lowered down because those who are not HCE 's in the company do n't deposit to 401k enough . You can read more details and technical explanation about the HCE rules in <URL> and in this <URL> .
I rolled mine over from the company I was at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I needed to setup a traditional IRA . There is paperwork your old jobs can provide you . I had to put in some mailing addresses , some account numbers and turn them in . My broker received it , I chose what I wanted to invest it in and that was that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoiding penalties is to have your past employers send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
It has n't changed , to the best of my knowledge . You can use the same form for each of the years . Make sure to write the correct year on line 1 . Be very careful at what you 're doing though . You can get hit with a lot of fines and penalties for late filing . Get a qualified tax professional ( EA/CPA/Attorney ) to help you with this , and get you into <URL> , if necessary .
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
I am going to answer my own question . First of all , if your broker trades bonds , then you can find their historical rates there . Next , if you do n't have a broker that trades bonds go to FINRA 's bond center at <URL>
No . Not likely . You usually can not transfer your 401 ( k ) out of a company plan while you are still working there . Some companies do permit such transactions for those 55 and older , but only for your own deposits , not for the matching portion , if any . Either way , best to ask the admin for your company plan . If you were no longer with the company , you 'd be able to transfer the 401 ( k ) to your Solo 401 ( k ) if you wished , either directly , or stopping thru an IRA .
The VDE fund is an energy fund so this is a function of recent price changes in oil ( and gas , coal , &amp; c ) . <URL> Lets say last year when oil was $ 100 per barrel a bunch of companies saw a good return and put $ 100 million into a bunch of leases , boreholes , pumps , &amp; c to return $ 10 million per year , and the market says yeah , they 're all together worth 100M . Now oil is less , maybe $ 40 per the link . These exploration companies do n't have a lot of labor or variable costs ; they are operationally profitable , may have " use it or lose it " leases or minimum pumping requirements for contract or engineering reasons . Lets say the cash flow is 7M so the market values them at 70M . They still have about 100M book value so here we are at .7 and I believe the scenario in the question . Nobody would invest in new capacity at this oil price . The well equipment could be repurposed but not the borehole or lease , so the best use is to continue pumping and value it on cash flow . If an individual well runs negative long enough and goes bust , either a different pumper will pay the minimum price that gives profitable cash flow , or that borehole that cost millions to dig is shut off and rendered valueless . The CNBC article says some explorers are playing games with debt to maintain yield , so there is that too . In the ETF , your bet is that the market is wrong and oil will go up , increasing future cash flows ( or you like the current yield , taking on the risk that some of these oil explorers could go bust ) .
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
I would look at the bank website for any monthly statement that would specify the last four digits . It may also have been included in any email correspondence from the bank when the card was reported missing , or when they sent you the card originally , or if you changed the password on the card . Many banking institutions also send a copy of any email notices as a message to your online account . Of course since you are going back 3 years + years they may be aged out of the system . Another source is statements from another company where the card was used to make a payment . This could be a utility bill , store purchase , or government payment . They normally include the last 4 digits so you can identify the card used to make the payment .
According to the privacy policies of at least some of the banks and financial institutions , they reserve the right to keep your information even after you have ceased all relationship with them . You can forbid them from sharing it , but not from keeping it . Unfortunately , there 's no law to protect you in such case .
You can contribute to both plans . But note : " Generally , all elective deferrals that you make to all plans in which you participate must be considered to determine if the dollar limits are exceeded . " The limit remains 16.5 K whether you contribute to one , two , or more plans . <URL>
When you say " Currently I have a mix of my own contributions along with this rollover " , do you mean that you have made direct contributions to your Roth IRA ? When withdrawing , the <URL> is that contributions always come out first , then conversions and rollovers , and lastly earnings . So if the amount you withdraw is less than your direct contributions , it will only come out of contributions and not touch the conversion amount . But if you withdraw some of the conversion amount within 5 years of the conversion , there will be a <URL> . The penalty applies to the part of the conversion that was taxable , which was all of the conversion in your case . There is no " principal " or " earnings " within this conversion -- conversions are counted separately from contributions or earnings in the Roth IRA .
As far as I know , the answer to this is generally " no . " The closest thing would be to identify the stock transfer company representing the company that you want to hold and buy through them . ( I have held this way , but I do n't know if it 's available on all stocks . ) This eliminates the broker , but there 's still a " middle man " in the transfer company . Note this section from the <URL> Wikipedia article : A public company usually only designates one company to transfer its stock . Stock transfer agents also run annual meetings as inspector of elections , proxy voting , and special meetings of shareholders . They are considered the official keeper of the corporate shareholder records . The decision to have a single transfer company is a practical one , ensuring that there is one entity responsible for recording this data - Hence even if you could buy stock " directly " from the company that you want to own , it would likely still get routed through the transfer company for recording .
Phil 's answer is correct . Just to add to his response : Distributions are not taxable events -- you already paid your taxes , so you can take out $ 50k or $ 52k and the IRS is not concerned . You can simply write yourself a check for any amount you choose ! To answer your specific question : to match your K1 losses and profit exactly , you could take out $ 50k . But that might leave the business strapped for cash . One way to decide how much to take out is to use your balance sheet . Look at your retained earnings ( or just look at the business bank account balance ) , subtract however much cash you think you need to keep on hand for operations , and write yourself a check for the rest .
end question
start question
How does the FDIC in the United States work ?
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
Sorry , but whether or not you drive in New York , the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles requires you to get a license in New York and surrender your California license . <URL> : If you become a <URL> of NYS , you must get a NYS driver license within 30 days and surrender your out-of-state driver license . Normally , you can not have a NYS driver license and a driver license from another state , but there are exceptions . It is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license ( CDL ) .
It 's a form . I have a retired woman ( my mother in law in the interest of disclosure ) who would otherwise be in the 15 % bracket . In November , I filled out , and she signed the form to move from IRA acct to Roth Acct $ 10,000 . Done . In March , I 'll look at TurboTax and see the line " taxable income " which will tell me how much we went into the 25 % bracket . We will recharacterize that exact amount . In 2011 , <URL> that will be the exact amount of her taxable income when I am done with her return . Her RMDs are increasing in percent each year , but we shift to Roth and are staying ahead of the curve so she never pays 25 % . Minor note - the RMD numbers are produced as of Dec 31 . So the money we recharacterize has to be added back in . The broker may not do this automatically , you should double check . No fees . We use Schwab .
Nowadays , the field is irrelevant for processing the transfer and completely ignored by the banks . Pretty much the only purpose it has is for documenting whom you intended to send the transfer to . If you mistakenly send a transfer to the wrong person ( which is becoming extremely unlikely with the IBAN due to the builtin check digits ) then they are mandated by law to give it back to you . If they refuse to do so and you end up going to court , the content of that field could be important to prove them wrong if they claim they are the rightful recipient .
An alias usually refers to a disposable or <URL> credit card number . These are also called temporary or virtual credit card numbers . Some credit card companies will allow you to generate a credit card number that links to your main account but is different from your main account number . You can usually set the number to expire after a certain amount of time or to only accept charges from a specific vendor or up to a certain amount . This allows you to make credit card purchases without as much worry about fraud , because your original credit card information is still hidden from the merchant . You may also hear about an alias on your credit report , which is simply a different name that 's also listed on your credit report . This could occur because you changed your name ( through marriage , for example ) , or someone a misspelling ended up on the report .
As per RBI regulations , all transaction originated in India [ i.e. Merchants in India ] and cards issued in India . As of now if a merchant is not in India , then OTP or additional password is not required . The Financial Institutions had contended that making changes for Gateways outside of India would be a technical challenge . This was accepted by RBI as it was deemed that number of user 's doing international transaction is small and hence the chances of fraud are less . Quite a few companies , UberCabs for example switched the gateway to US so that they could bill customers without OTP .
support and resistance levels exist . these are just psychological barriers that are easily charted . gaps fill , breakouts happen , volume and price diverge and converge indicators that need charting frequently do n't work simply because there is n't enough pricing information and volume .
I am wondering weather it is worth it ( how taxation works in this scenario ect . ) or not and legally possible to do so ? Whether it is worth it or not is up to you . There 's nothing illegal in this , unless of course there 's a legal issue in the foreign country . The US does n't care . Re taxes - it is a bit trickier . If your lender does not provide you with form 1098 , you 'll have to report the lender 's name , address and SSN/ITIN on your tax return in order to claim a deduction . The IRS will then expect the lender to report that interest as income . This is US-sourced income and is taxed in the US despite the fact that the lender is non-resident . See <URL> for more info . If the lender does n't report the income and does n't pay the taxes - your deduction may be denied as well for double-dipping . It is easier if this is an investment . Then the deduction is not going to Schedule A , but rather as an expense to Schedule E . The IRS may still require matching , but you wo n't need to report the SSN/ITIN - just have the expense properly documented . Obviously , the best when it comes to legal issues , is to talk to an attorney licensed in the State in question . Similarly with tax questions - you should talk to a EA/CPA licensed in that State . I 'm neither .
Why does the rising price of a bond pushes it 's yield down ? The bond price and its yield are linked ; if one goes up , the other must go down . This is because the cash flows from the bond are fixed , predetermined . The market price of the bond fluctuates . Now what if people are suddenly willing to pay more for the same fixed payments ? It must mean that the return , i.e. the yield , will be lower . Here we see that risk associated with the bonds in question has skyrocketed , and thus bonds ' returns has skyrocketed , too . Am I right ? The default risk has increased , yes . Now , I assume that bonds ' price is determined by the market ( issued by a state , traded at the market ) . Is that correct ? Correct , as long as you are talking about the market price . Then who determines bonds ' yields ? I mean , is n't it fixed ? Or - in the FT quote above - they are talking about the yields for the new bonds issued that particular month ? The yield is not fixed - the cash flows are . Yield is the internal rate of return . See my answer above to your first question .
Value averaging has you shift the balance of your portfolio over time , not the amount of contributions . So you can only do it if you have a portfolio holding both risky assets ( shares etc ) and some cash . You start out by making a plan about how much you will contribute every month and at what rate you expect the share part of the portfolio to grow . Perhaps based on 20th century data you think an 8 % growth rate is reasonable . Or alternatively if you know your desired final amount obviously you can work backwards to a desired rate from that . If in any month the share part is falling below its expected growth path , you would put more money into it : possibly your whole paycheck contribution plus some from the savings cash account . On the other hand if the share component is growing " too fast " you would put all your additional savings into cash . So if your investments are doing well , you 're not supposed to spend the excess money , but rather to put it aside into a dedicated cash account to top up your share component when prices fall . In theory , this has the auto-levelling benefit of Dollar Cost Averaging , but even better : when prices are high , you 'll automatically buy fewer shares , or even sell some ; conversely when prices are low you 'll buy extra shares from your reserve account . If it turns out your estimate was unreasonably optimistic , and over your lifetime shares only ever average 3 % , you 'll end up with an entirely share portfolio , and a bumpier ride than you might have liked . If you have horrible luck and over your entire investing life shares return less than cash ( which has happened , though not yet in the USA ) , then this will be worse than a standard balanced portfolio . The original book <URL> has a pretty good explanation of various cases , though I would say some of the examples are worked in excessive detail . I have not implemented this myself , one reason being that the amount I 'm able to save from year to year varies , as it probably does for you , and so predicting a path is not quite so simple as he assumes . You could still do it I suppose . I think you could get a very crude approximation to this by simply directing your savings into cash when the share market 's rate of growth over the last several years is above what you think is the long term average .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
During after hours , there is less liquidity , defined as the quantity of the asset on the limit book and the spread between the best orders . Actually , for the most liquid securities in the US , trading has actually been extended by fifteen minutes . The liquidity there seems to be rising up to normal levels . If trading on those securities matches normal hours then it would n't be unreasonable to assume another fifteen minutes will be added and so on . The primary exchanges close trading mostly at 4:00 PM with the above noted exceptions . The secondary exchanges trade almost non-stop . They use their internal inventory to do so or communicate directly with the registering agent . This has little to do with floor traders but more with tradition since the NASDAQ also closes at 4:00 PM . If more demand it , the exchanges should be expected to extend trading hours , regulation permitting . I ca n't speak to Canada 's regulation , but in the US , trading hours are traditional not regulatory .
Just before a crash or at the start of the crash most of the smart money would have gotten out , the remaining technical traders would be out by the time the market has dropped 10 to 15 % , and some of them would be shorting their positions by now . Most long-term buy and hold investors would stick to their guns and stay in for the long haul . Some will start to get nervous and have sleepless nights when the markets have fallen 30 % + and look to get out as well . Others stay in until they can not stand it anymore . And some will stick it out throughout the downturn . So who are the buyers at this stage ? Some are the so called bargain hunters that buy when the market has fallen over 30 % ( only to sell again when it falls another 20 % ) , or maybe buy more ( because they think they are dollar cost averaging and will make a packet when the price goes back up - if and when it does ) . Some are those with stops covering their short positions , whilst others may be fund managers and individuals looking to rebalance their portfolios . What you have to remember during both an uptrend and a downtrend the price does not move straight up or straight down . If we take the downtrend for instance , it will have lower lows and lower highs ( that is the definition of a downtrend ) . See the chart below of the S&amp;P 500 during the GFC falls . As you can see just before it really started falling in Jan 08 there was ample opportunity for the smart money and the technical traders to get out of the market as the price drops below the 200 MA and it fails to make a higher peak . As the price falls from Jan 08 to Mar 08 you suddenly start getting some movement upwards . This is the bargain hunters who come into the market thinking the price is a bargain compared to 3 months ago , so they start buying and pushing the price up somewhat for a couple of months before it starts falling again . The reason it falls again is because the people who wanted to sell at the start of the year missed the boat , so are taking the opportunity to sell now that the prices have increased a bit . So you get this battle between the buyers ( bulls ) and seller ( bears ) , and of course the bears are winning during this downtrend . That is why you see more sharper falls between Aug to Oct 08 , and it continues until the lows of Mar 09 . In short it has got to do with the phycology of the markets and how people 's emotions can make them buy and/or sell at the wrong times .
I 'm not an expert on reverse mortgages but from my understanding the closing costs are much higher than traditional mortgages and the LTV is generally pretty low . So the bank makes money by not loaning out all that much compared to the value of the property and by charging high fees on the front end .
Insurance provided by companies on a pre-tax basis must follow IRS regulations . Insurance is part of a " cafeteria plan " and they must limit your ability to change the items in the plan except during an annual open season , or after an IRS defined life event . The Affordable Care Act also has the concept of open season , to minimize the ability to wait until a person is sick before enrolling for coverage . There will be a annual open season , and there will be an ability to make changes after a life event . Even without the IRS regulations and the Affordable Care Act law insurance companies would want to minimize your ability to switch coverage levels . If you could add orthodontics coverage after your dentist tells you your child needs braces ; and then drop it after they are put on ; they would never be able to collect enough money to fairly price it . Therefore they limit your ability to make changes to open season/life events .
My husband had this come up when he went to Kuwait from August2006 - August 2007 . Its all based on the percentage of the time . So say the first 90k is taxfree . If you were there 3 months of that tax year then 25 % of 90,000 is your " tax-free " income and the rest of the money earned in those 3 months is taxed at the appropriate tax bracket rate . Then the following year you take the other 75 % ( 67,500 ) free and tax the rest . You will have to pay your estimated taxes and file an extension for the first year so that you can prove the 330/365 days to the IRS . Get a really good accountant or you will still be paying taxes and penalties years later like we are .
I 'm assuming you mean the H&amp;R Block ' tax centers ' they typically set up in a mall . I used their services once . My experience may not match yours and may not be typical . Essentially , the H&amp;R Block " tax expert " is someone trained to use the H&amp;R Block tax software . This is similar to TurboTax and other such software . You are paying this person to follow prompts on the computer and input the answers you provide , just like TurboTax and similar software works . My " tax expert " was unable to answer basic tax questions and could not even operate her calculator properly . In every way , the experience was worse than just using TurboTax on my own computer . Now , this service may make sense for you if , for example , you can not operate a computer or can not see well enough to read the information on your tax documents . You may also prefer the H&amp;R Block tax software over all other competing products , though in this case , you may wish to just use the software online or download it , rather than paying a " tax expert " to run it on your behalf . It 's also certainly the case that many " tax experts " are actually fully-fledged accountants who are just picking up some work on the side . If your taxes are significantly more complicated , you would do well to hire an accountant who specialises in tax returns . There will almost certainly be very many in your community . This will certainly cost more than this year 's tax software , but may well be a good option for you .
Sometimes 403b 's contain annuities or other insurance related instruments . I know that in many New York schools the local teacher unions administer the 403b plan , and sometimes choose proprietary investments like variable annuities or other insurance products . In New York the Attorney General sued and settled with the state teacher 's union for their endorsement of a high cost ING 403b plan -- I believe the maintenance fees were in excess of 3 % / year ! In a tax deferred plan like a 401k , 403b or 457 plan , the low risk " insurance fund " is generally a GIC " Guaranteed Investment Contract " . A GIC ( aka " Stable Value Fund " ) is sort of cross between a CD and a Money Market fund . It 's used by insurance companies to raise short term capital . GICs usually yield a premium versus a money market and are a safe investment . If your wife is in a 403b with annuities or other life-insurance tie ins other than GICs , make sure that you understand the fee structure and ask lots of questions .
end question
start question
Why do a lot of people recommend Vanguard so often ?
<URL> : Vanguard is unusual among mutual-fund companies since it is owned by the funds themselves . In this structure , each fund contributes a set amount of capital towards shared management , marketing , and distribution services . In other words , the company is owned entirely by the shareholders of the funds in the company . The result is that Vanguard usually has the lowest cost index funds .
In the context of EDV , 4.46 is the indicated dividend rate . The indicated dividend rate is the rate that would be paid per share throughout the next year , assuming dividends stayed the same as prior payment . sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
A lot ( sometimes called a round lot ) always refers to the quantity of physical good that you 're getting , like a carton of eggs or a barrel of oil . The tricky thing in the case of forex is that the physical good also happens to be a currency . A spot currency product trades in the denomination on the right-hand side ( RHS ) of the product name . So if you 're buying EUR/USD you are paying USD currency to get EUR " units " , and if you 're selling EUR/USD you are receiving USD by giving away EUR " units " . The EUR is the " physical good " in this case . The way I remember it is to think of all products ( not just currencies ) as trading pairs . So AAPL in my mind is AAPL/USD . When I buy AAPL/USD I am paying USD to get AAPL units . When I sell AAPL/USD I am receiving USD by giving away AAPL units . The thing on the left is the physical good ( even if it happens to be money ) that you are exchanging , and the thing on the right is the money that you are exchanging . So , when I buy a lot of AAPL , I am buying 100 shares at their current price in dollars . Similarly , when I buy a lot of EUR/USD , I am buying 100K Euros at their current price in dollars .
Even for those of us who are n't at risk of over drafting , direct debit is a less-than-stellar option . Direct debit is a great way to begin ignoring how large your bills are . By explicitly paying them through my bank 's online billpay , I notice immediately when a bill is larger than it ought to be . This is often caused by a billing error . In which case I 've found it far easier to resolve disputes when the money is still in my hands . It 's significantly harder to convince an internet provider , cell phone service , or utility to reverse an incorrect charge after it 's been paid than it is before . The other times , it 's because I 've been using the service more than normal . For example , sending text messages more frequently or using more electricity . Explicitly paying these bills makes me realize upfront that there 's been a change in my behavior and I can either reduce my expenses or accept the higher cost for higher service . My own experience leads me to believe that paying your bills automatically every month is a great way to ignore these events , and leak money like a sieve . Online bill pay makes doing this as trivial as I could hope for , and the risk of missing a payment is essentially nil .
If you are worried about wash sales within your Wealthfront portfolio , it appears that you should be safe . According to Wealthfront , their harvesting algorithm <URL> : Wealthfront 's tax-loss harvesting algorithms manage your accounts to avoid wash sale issues within your Wealthfront investment portfolio . This includes both sale and purchase timing , as well as choosing alternate ETFs that are not substantially identical to your primary ( initial ) ETFs . Wealthfront does n't use Vanguard target date funds , so there should be no danger of wash sales across the two companies . One question you may have regards on the phrase in the IRS code regarding wash sales . To my knowledge there have n't been rulings about what constitutes substantially similar . However , no Wealthfront ETF would ever be confused as being substantially similar to a target date fund .
A falling exchange rate is an indication of falling confidence in a currency . Countries like Iran or Venezuela , with a <URL> , set their exchange rates at a higher value than the market accepts . Such market expectations may be influenced by poor government management , interventions into markets ( such as nationalising businesses ) or general instability / scarcity . The governments act to manage that uncertainty by limiting the availability of foreign exchange and pegging the exchange rate . Since there is an inadequate supply of trusted foreign currency people turn to informal exchanges in order to hedge their currency risk . This creates a negative feedback loop . People in government who have access to foreign exchange start to trade on informal markets , pocketing the difference in the official and unofficial rates . The increasing gap between the two rates drives increasing informal market exchange and can result in speculative bubbles . Driving instability ( or economic contradiction ) is that the massive and increasing difference between the official and market exchange rates becomes a powerful form of rent for government officials . This drives further state-led rent-seeking behaviour and causes the economy to become even more unstable . If you 're interested in a more formal academic study of how such parallel markets in currency arise , <URL> at the University of Pretoria is a useful source .
Large banknotes can be used for two things mainly : large transactions like buying a car ( it happens both in the eurozone and in other countries like Switzerland ) and as a store of value . If you live in the Netherlands or France , all this might sound surprising but there are huge differences in the way people use cash in the various countries of the eurozone . That 's also why , while the authority to issue new banknotes legally rests with the European Central Bank , only National Central Banks actually handle cash . In a way , it 's related to your point about large banknotes in predecessor currencies but in many cases it 's not a mere historical curiosity . It 's something that 's embedded in those countries ' payment system and people use and expect banknotes with a relatively large face value . A few facts to illustrate this : <URL> , 10 % of Austrian and 0 % of French respondents report using cash " always or often " for purchases above $ 10k like a car ( in France , <URL> ) . For purchases between $ 20 and $ 100 , the proportion is above 60 % in Italy , Germany or Spain compared to 20 % in the Netherlands . From the same source , more than a third of Spaniards and Italians never withdraw money from an ATM compared to 4 % in the Netherlands . 25 % of Spaniards withdraw money over the counter at a bank at least every two weeks , compared to 2 % in the Netherlands ( 84 % of Dutch respondents never do it , the highest proportion by far , compared to 30-50 % in most countries , 59 % in France ) . Average amount withdrawn is $ 89 in France , $ 214 in Germany . The proportion of respondents who report having a $ 200 or $ 500 banknote in their possession at least once a year is 45 % in Luxembourg , 39 % in Italy , 37 % in Austria compared to 9 % in France and 8 % in the Netherlands ( there , 70 % of respondents never had one ) . Only Germany , Austria , and Luxembourg <URL> . Belgium , France , Portugal , and the new members ( Greece , Cyprus , Malta , Latvia , Lithuania , Estonia , Slovakia ) never commissioned anything above $ 50 . Before the 2008 crisis however , <URL> , which never commissioned any ! These figures also put the numbers regarding organised crime in perspective : It 's perhaps true that most of the value is in the hand of criminals , especially outside of the eurozone ( <URL> mentions a lot of concern about this in the UK ) but a large proportion of the population does use $ 500 banknotes at least occasionally . Still , according to the same survey , a third of all euro banknotes are used for transaction purposes and 20 to 25 % are held abroad . That leaves a bit less than half as store of value in the eurozone but not circulating . There are also subtler differences beyond the use of very banknotes with a high face value . It 's anecdotal but based on my travels in both countries , I have the feeling that German ATM are mostly stocked with $ 50 banknotes , sometimes not even offering multiples of 10 or 20 , whereas in France it 's much more common to receive $ 20 notes , even if you withdraw $ 100 or $ 200 . Incidentally , the Netherlands might be an exception in another way : There was in fact a 1000 Dutch guilders note but it seems the country has moved away from cash to a much larger extent than almost all other eurozone countries except perhaps France , which did not have very large banknotes before the euro ( since 1960 , the largest note had a 500 Franc face value , about $ 75 at the time the euro was introduced ) . So the large Dutch banknote now looks like a curiosity in a way that Austrian or German banknotes do not .
Tax . In the UK , for example , over 60 % of the price is tax .
Excellent question , though any why question can be challenging to answer because it depends on the financial products in question . At least , I have n't seen many target date retirement funds that include a high percent of foreign stocks , so below explains the ones I 've seen which are primarily US stocks . The United States ( before the last twenty years ) has been seen as a country of stability . This is not true anymore , and it 's difficult for my generation to understand because we grew up in the U.S.A being challenged ( and tend to think that China and India have always been powers ) , but when we read investors , like Benjamin Graham ( who had significant influence with Warren Buffett ) , we can see this bias - the U.S.A to them is stable , and other countries are " risky . " Again , with the national debt and the political game in our current time , it does not feel this way . But that bias is often reflect in financial instruments . The US Dollar is still the reserve currency , though it 's influence is declining and I would expect it to decline . Contrary to my view ( because I could be wrong here ) is Mish , who argues that no one wants to have the reserve currency because having a reserve currency brings disadvantages ( see here : <URL> ; I present this to show that my view could be wrong ) . Finally , there tends to be the " go with what you know . " Many of these funds are managed by U.S. citizens , so they tend to have a U.S. bias and feel more comfortable investing their money " at home " ( in fact a famous mutual fund manager , Peter Lynch , had a similar mentality - buy the company behind the stock and what company do we tend to know best ? The ones around us . ) . One final note , I 'm not saying this mentality is correct , just what the attitude is like . I think you may find that younger mutual fund managers tend to include more foreign stocks , as they 've seen that different world .
Every reward program has to have a funding source . If the card gives you x percent back on all purchases . That means that their business is structured to entice you to pump more transactions through the system . Either their other costs are lower , or the increased business allows them to make more money off of late fees , and interest . If the card has you earn extra points for buying a type of item or from a type of store ( home stores improvement in the Spring ) , they are trying to make sure you use their card for what can be a significant amount of business during a small window of time . Sometimes they cap it by saying 5 % cash back at home improvement stores during the spring but only on the first $ 1500 of purchases . That limits it to $ 75 maximum . Adding more business for them , makes more money for them . Groceries and gas are a good year round purchase categories . Yes there is some variation depending on the season , and the weather , but overall there is not an annual cliff once the season ends . Gas and groceries account for thousands of dollars a year these are not insignificant categories , for many families are recession proof . If they perceive a value from this type of offer they will change their buying behavior . My local grocery store has a deal with a specific gas station . This means that they made a monetary deal . Because you earn points at the grocery store and spend points at the gas station , the grocery store is paying some compensation to the gas station every time you use points . The gas station must be seeing an increase in business so theoretically they do n't get 100 % compensation from the grocery store . In cases where credit cards give airline miles , the credit card company buys the miles from the airline at a discount because they know that a significant number of miles will never be used .
The government wants to encourage everyone to buy health insurance , because with more healthy people buying health insurance , the rates can be reduced for those that are less healthy . Ask yourself this : Why does the HSA require health insurance at all ? Should you be able to make use of an HSA if you do n't have any health insurance ? The HSA is the carrot that the government holds out to get people that might decide to skip health insurance to buy it . If they did n't have an upper limit on the deductible , you could buy health insurance with an extremely high deductible at an extremely low rate , and then it would essentially be like you did n't have any health insurance at all . As to why the ACA law is n't coordinated with the HSA law , well , there are lots of issues with the ACA law , and this is only one of them ...
This is explained at <URL> : When stock options first began trading , each stock was assigned to one of three cycles : January , February or March . There is no meaning as to which cycle a stock was assigned - it was purely random . Stocks assigned to the January cycle had options available only in the first month of each quarter : January , April , July and October . Stocks assigned to the February cycle had only the middle months of each quarter available : February , May , August and November . Stocks on the March cycle had the end months of each quarter available : March , June , September and December . As options gained in popularity , it soon became apparent that both the floor traders and individual investors preferred to trade or hedge for shorter terms . So the original rules were modified , and in 1990 , the CBOE decided that every stock would always have the current month plus the following month available to trade . [ ... ] Every stock has at least four expiration months trading . Under the new rules , the first two months are always the two near months , but for the two farther-out months , the rules use the original cycles . [ ... ] Under the newer rules , there is always the current month plus the following month available So the reason why you see some stocks not offer options for May is because they are not on the Feb/May/Aug / Nov cycle . The stocks that are n't offering options for May or June must be on the Jan/Apr/Jul / Oct cycle . But all the stocks you are looking at offer options for March and April , because they have to offer options for the current month ( March ) and the following month ( April ) .
No , IRA contributions can only be made in the form of cash ( rollovers and conversions are different ) . You 'd have to sell the investments in your taxable account , incurring capital gains or losses , then transfer the proceeds to your IRA in cash . You could look into Vanguard Target Retirement funds , which have a lower $ 1,000 minimum investment , or Vanguard ETFs .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
There are two reasons why most options are n't exercised . The first is obvious , and the second , less so . The obvious : An option that 's practically worthless does n't get exercised . Options that reach expiry and remain unexercised are almost always worthless bets that simply did n't pay off . This includes calls with strikes above the current underlying price , and puts with strikes below it . A heck of a lot of options . If an option with value was somehow left to expire , it was probably a mistake , or else the transaction costs outweighed the value remaining ; not quite worthless , but not " worth it " either . The less obvious : An option with value can be cancelled any time before expiration . A trader that buys an option may at some point show a gain sooner than anticipated , or a loss in excess of his tolerance . If a gain , he may want to sell before expiry to realize the gain sooner . Similarly , if a loss , he may want to take the loss sooner . In both cases , his capital is freed up and he can take another position . And -- this is the key part -- the other end matched up with that option sale is often a buyer that had created ( written ) exactly such an option contract in the first place -- the option writer -- and who is looking to get out of his position . Option writers are the traders responsible , in the first place , for creating options and increasing the " open interest . " Anybody with the right kind and level of options trading account can do this . A trader that writes an option does so by instructing his broker to " sell to open " a new instance of the option . The trader then has a short position ( negative quantity ) in that option , and all the while may be subject to the obligations that match the option 's exercise rights . The only way for the option writer to get out of that short position and its obligations are these : Not by choice : To get assigned . That is to say : a buyer exercised the option . The writer has to fulfill his obligation by delivering the underlying ( if a call ) to the option holder , or buying the underlying ( if a put ) from the option holder . Not by choice : The option expires worthless . This is the ideal scenario for a writer because 100 % of the premium received ( less transaction costs ) is profit . By choice : The writer is free to buy back exactly the same kind of option before expiry using a " buy to close " order with their broker . Once the option has been purchased with a " buy to close " , it eliminates the short position and obligation . The option is cancelled . The open interest declines . Options thus cancelled just do n't live long enough to either expire or be exercised .
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
<URL> has Pre and After market : NASDAQ Trading Schedule Regular Trading Session Schedule The NASDAQ Stock Market Trading Sessions ( Eastern Time ) Pre-Market Trading Hours from 4:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Market Hours from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. After-Market Hours from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quote and order-entry from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quotes are open and firm from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. . You can trade in Pre/After Market but <URL> is very low . If an " unexpected world events " occurs , the volume/liquidity will most certainly increase . Another example is the <URL> that 's open <URL> . As one major forex market closes , another one opens . According to GMT , for instance , forex trading hours move around the world like this : available in New York between 01:00 pm -- 10:00 pm GMT ; at 10:00 pm GMT Sydney comes online ; Tokyo opens at 00:00 am and closes at 9:00 am GMT ; and to complete the loop , London opens at 8:00 am and closes at 05:00 pm GMT . This enables traders and brokers worldwide , together with the participation of the central banks from all continents , to trade online 24 hours a day . <URL>
<URL> : Vanguard is unusual among mutual-fund companies since it is owned by the funds themselves . In this structure , each fund contributes a set amount of capital towards shared management , marketing , and distribution services . In other words , the company is owned entirely by the shareholders of the funds in the company . The result is that Vanguard usually has the lowest cost index funds .
There are two umbrellas in investing : and . Passive management is based on the idea " you ca n't beat the market . " Passive investors believe in the efficient markets hypothesis : " the market interprets all information about an asset , so price is equal to underlying value " . Another idea in this field is that there 's a minimum risk associated with any given return . You ca n't increase your expected return without assuming more risk . To see it graphically : As expected return goes up , so does risk . If we stat with a portfolio of 100 bonds , then remove 30 bonds and add 30 stocks , we 'll have a portfolio that 's 70 % bonds/30 % stocks . Turns out that this makes expected return increase and lower risk because of diversification . Markowitz showed that you could reduce the overall portfolio risk by adding a riskier , but uncorrelated , asset ! Basically , if your entire portfolio is US stocks , then you 'll lose money whenever US stocks fall . But , if you have half US stocks , quarter US bonds , and quarter European stocks , then even if the US market tanks , half your portfolio will be unaffected ( theoretically ) . Adding different types of uncorrelated assets can reduce risk and increase returns . Let 's tie this all together . We should get a variety of stocks to reduce our risk , and we ca n't beat the market by security selection . Ideally , we ought to buy nearly every stock in the market so that So what 's our solution ? Why , the exchange traded fund ( ETF ) of course ! An ETF is basically a bunch of stocks that trade as a single ticker symbol . For example , consider the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ( SPY ) . You can purchase a unit of " SPY " and it will move up/down proportional to the S&amp;P 500 . This gives us diversification among stocks , to prevent any significant downside while limiting our upside . How do we diversify across asset classes ? Luckily , we can purchase ETF 's for almost anything : Gold ETF 's ( commodities ) , US bond ETF 's ( domestic bonds ) , International stock ETFs , Intl. bonds ETFs , etc. . So , we can buy ETF 's to give us exposure to various asset classes , thus diversifying among asset classes and within each asset class . Determining what % of our portfolio to put in any given asset class is known as asset allocation and some people say up to 90 % of portfolio returns can be determined by asset allocation . That pretty much sums up passive management . The idea is to buy ETFs across asset classes and just leave them . You can readjust your portfolio holdings periodically , but otherwise there is no rapid trading . Now the other umbrella is active management . The unifying idea is that you can generate superior returns by stock selection . Active investors reject the idea of efficient markets . A classic and time proven strategy is value investing . After the collapse of 07/08 , bank stocks greatly fell , but all the other stocks fell with them . Some stocks worth $ 100 were selling for $ 50 . Value investors quickly snapped up these stocks because they had a margin of safety . Even if the stock did n't go back to 100 , it could go up to $ 80 or $ 90 eventually , and investors profit . The main ideas in value investing are : have a big margin of safety , look at a company 's fundamentals ( earnings , book value , etc ) , and see if it promises adequate return . Coke has tremendous earnings and it 's a great company , but it 's so large that you 're never going to make 20 % profits on it annually , because it just ca n't grow that fast . Another field of active investing is technical analysis . As opposed to the " fundamental analysis " of value investing , technical analysis involves looking at charts for patterns , and looking at stock history to determine future paths . Things like resistance points and trend lines also play a role . Technical analysts believe that stocks are just ticker symbols and that you can use guidelines to predict where they 're headed . Another type of active investing is day trading . This basically involves buying and selling stocks every hour or every minute or just at a rapid pace . Day traders do n't hold onto investments for very long , and are always trying to predict the market in the short term and take advantage of it . Many individual investors are also day traders . The other question is , how do you choose a strategy ? The short answer is : pick whatever works for you . The long answer is : Day trading and technical analysis is a lot of luck . If there are consistent systems for trading , then people are keeping them secret , because there is no book that you can read and become a consistent trader . High frequency trading ( HFT ) is an area where people basically mint money , but it s more technology and less actual investing , and would not be categorized as day trading . Benjamin Graham once said : In the short run , the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a weighing machine . Value investing will work because there 's evidence for it throughout history , but you need a certain temperament for it and most people do n't have that
Do you mean kinda big amounts , or REALLY big amounts ( like Warren Buffet-sized amounts ) ? Stocks on the American markets are traded in lots of 100 shares ( called " round lots " ) . For these amounts you can either call up a broker or go to an online brokerage and place your order in directly to the floor . It 's executed in seconds ( usually ) and you have your shares for a commission of a few bucks . This is in contrast to what you 're doing with Sharebuilder . You can buy in less than 100-share increments , but you 're paying more per share in the long run to do so because you 're actually buying an allocation of a round lot from Sharebuilder . If you 're buying a whole lot of shares , then usually you have to do so gradually ( and not tell anyone you 're doing so , especially if you 're Warren Buffet ) . If you were to put an order for 1,000,000 shares at once , you could end up paying a lot more than you need to because it might not be the case that there are enough sellers to sell you 1,000,000 shares at near the current price . The price will go up until your order is filled , but that could take a while .
end question
start question
How to report a personal expense for an LLC partnership paid in one year and reimbursed in another ?
You report it when the expense was incurred/accrued . Which is , in your case , 2014 . There 's no such thing as " accounts payable " on tax forms , it is an account on balance sheet , but most likely it is irrelevant for you since your LLC is probably cash-based . The reimbursement is a red-herring , what matters is when you paid the money .
Shareholders of Monsanto will get the money from Bayer . Shareholders are independent people or entities . Think of Monsanto as a thing that shareholders had . This thing is now being purchased by Bayer
Start with your local police department then move on to these sites . Fill out the United States Postal Service fraud complaint form <URL> Contact your State Attorneys General . Your state Attorney General or local office of consumer protection is also listed in the government pages of your telephone book Write to the Federal Trade Commission : spam@uce.gov If you are aware of a securities ( e.g. , stocks ) scam , insider trading , etc. , you will want to contact the SEC ( Securities and Exchange Commission ) . <URL>
In my experience ( and I 'm a programmer , not an accountant ) it comes down to this : LLC gives you the liability protection of a Corporation without the hassle of keeping minutes of meetings and filing 2 sets of taxes . Sole Proprietor is cheap &amp; easy , but does not give you any liability protection If you get paid ' as a person ' , the employer is expected to use a W2 if they pay you more than , I think , $ 600 By liability protection , I mean that if you should screw something up ( or the client believes you broke something ) , who 's responsible ? With an LLC or Corporation it 's typically the company that 's responsible , so they could sue the company for all its assets , but could n't take your house . However , as a Sole Proprietor , you 're personal assets are not protected . There are exceptions when your LLC or Corp might make you liable personally , for example if you have conducted them such that there is a blurred line between personality and company ( for instance I think if you do n't have a separate account ) LLCs are also state specific , so the rules ( and costs ) vary state to state .
Although I am not a tax professional , and in this case you would be better off with a professional advice , my understanding ( at least of Arizona , New York and California individual tax regulations that I 've been dealing with ) is that you only pay taxes in the state in which you 're domiciled . Lottery winnings are payed by States/State-run corporations and as such sourced to the State that pays it . Buying a ticket in SC links you to the lottery run in that State , even if you live in another . You 'll be claiming your winnings in SC , not in NC , and the winnings will be sourced to SC , not NC . As such SC will be taxing them . NC will be taxing them as well , since you 're NC resident .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
I disagree with the IRA suggestion . Why IRA ? You 're a student , so probably wo n't get much tax benefits , so why locking the money for 40 years ? You can do the same investments through any broker account as in IRA , but be able to cash out in need . 5 years is long enough term to put in a mutual fund or ETF and expect reasonable ( > 1.25 % ) gains . You can use the online " analyst " tools that brokers like ETrade or Sharebuilder provide to decide on how to spread your portfolio , 15K is enough for diversifying over several areas . If you want to keep it as cash - check the on-line savings accounts ( like Capitol One , for example , or Ally , ING Direct that will merge with Capitol One and others ) for better rates , brick and mortar banks can not possible compete with what you can get online .
What you 're looking for are either FX Forwards or FX Futures . These products are traded differently but they are basically the same thing -- agreements to deliver currency at a defined exchange rate at a future time . Almost every large venue or bank will transact forwards , when the counterparty ( you or your broker ) has sufficient trust and credit for the settlement risk , but the typical duration is less than a year though some will do a single-digit multi-year forward on a custom basis . Then again , all forwards are considered custom contracts . You 'll also need to know that forwards are done on currency pairs , so you 'll need to pick the currency to pair your NOK against . Most likely you 'll want EUR/NOK simply for the larger liquidity of that pair over other possible pairs . A quote on a forward will usually just be known by the standard currency pair ticker with a settlement date different from spot . E.g. " EUR/NOK 12M " for the 12 month settlement . Futures , on the other hand , are exchange traded and more standardized . The vast majority through the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . Your broker will need access to one of these exchanges and you simply need to " qualify " for futures trading ( process depends on your broker ) . Futures generally have highest liquidity for the next " IMM " expiration ( quarterly expiration on well known standard dates ) , but I believe they 're defined for more years out than forwards . At one FX desk I 've knowledge of , they had 6 years worth of quarterly expirations in their system at any one time . Futures are generally known by a ticker composed of a " globex " or " cme " code for the currency concatenated with another code representing the expiration . For example , " NOKH6 " is ' NOK ' for Norwegian Krone , ' H ' for March , and ' 6 ' for the nearest future date 's year that ends in ' 6 ' ( i.e. 2016 ) . Note that you 'll be legally liable to deliver the contracted size of Krone if you hold through expiration ! So the common trade is to hold the future , and net out just before expiration when the price more accurately reflects the current spot market .
The short answer is yes , losses get passed through to members . Limits/percentages do apply , primarily based on your share in the business . Check out the final post in this thread : <URL> It 's not a bad little summary of the profit/loss pass-through . Regarding your 60K/60K example : the amount of money you earn in your day job will impact how much loss you can claim . Unfortunately I ca n't find anything more recent at the IRS or business.gov , but see this from 2004 - 40K was the limit before the amount you could claim against started to be mitigated : <URL> HTH
You will owe penalty to file for year 1 and penalty for failure to file and penalty for failure to pay for year 2 . Penalty for year 1 will be moot , since no tax is due , but the IRS does n't know it until you file a return . If you do n't - they 'll " make up " a return on your behalf based on the information they have , and assess taxes and penalties based on that . Refunds are not applied automatically . The fact that you think you have a refund ( that IRS does n't know of , since you have n't submitted the forms ) does n't mean you owe less the next year . However , if you 're on an installment agreement or in collection , once the refund approved , it will be applied to your existing debt in other years before being distributed to you ( what 's left ) . The penalty for failure to file is quite high , including interest . I suggest taking care of this ASAP , and I also suggest to have a licensed professional ( EA or CPA licensed in your State ) help you with this .
No , as far as I know , a free credit report is only available by mail . Here 's <URL> with contact information for Equifax and TransUnion for ordering a credit report by mail . Also note that anyone offering free online credit reports in Canada is lying through their teeth . There are a couple sites out there ( e.g. , canadafreecreditscore.ca , freecreditreportsincanada.ca ) that offer a " free " online credit report in seconds , but that 's just the hook line and sinker for <URL> . Not sure of the details , but I generally avoid anything that 's not Equifax or TransUnion for credit reports .
Yes , transferring in to an ISA does not count as subscribing to it , and it is subscriptions that are limited to one per year . See eg <URL> - I wo n't paste an excerpt as it really needs the context of all the answers on the page , but in summary it supports my " Yes you can " above . By the way , if you want a definitive answer from HMRC you can ring their <URL> : ISA Helpline For general enquiries about tax rules on ISAs and more information on Junior ISAs Individual Savings Account Helpline is part of the Savings Helpline Opening hours 8.00 am to 8.00 pm , Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.00 pm Saturday 08456041701
For public US companies listed on an exchange , they must follow SEC guidelines . Thus , their financial statements will be prepared under US GAAP . To answer your question , yes , if the cost is over their capitalization policy amount , it must be capitalized and depreciated . Under GAAP there are several options for depreciation , such as straight line and unit-of-production . The choice is always disclosed in the footnotes of the 10-K . Ideally the company would choose a method that resembles the actual depreciation of the asset most closely so the statements are more reliable .
It appears that FDENX charges 0.05 % for its own expenses , but has additional 0.61 % expenses from the underlying funds . This is because , as most target date funds , it does n't invest directly in stocks but rather invests in other Fidelity funds - that also charge expenses . The Pyramis fund may be avoiding these charges by managing it 's assets directly and not through other funds , or by investing in other Pyramis index funds without additional overhead . 0.66 % for a target date fund is quite a lot , I must say .
Basically , yes . Do n't use your business account for personal spending because it may invalidate your limited liability protection . Transfer a chunk of money to your personal account , write it down in your books as " distribution " ( or something similar ) , and use it in whatever way you want from your personal account . The IRS does n't care per se , but mixing personal and business expenses will cause troubles if you 're audited because you 'll have problems distinguishing one from another . You should be using some accounting software to make sure you track your expenses and distributions correctly . It will make it easier for you to prepare reports for yourself and your tax preparer , and also track distributions and expenses . I suggest GnuCash , I find it highly effective for a small business with not so many transactions ( if you have a lot of transactions , then maybe QuickBooks would be more appropriate ) .
There are a number of ways this can result . In a broad ETF , such as SPY , the S&amp;P 500 spider , the S&amp;P index will have 500 stocks no matter what , so a buyout would simply result in a re-shuffling of the index makeup . No buyout will happen so quickly that there 's no time to choose the next stock to join the index . In your case , if the fund manager ( per the terms of the prospectus ) wishes to simply reallocate the index to remove the taken-over stock that 's probably how he handle it . Unless of course , the prospectus dictates otherwise . In which case , a cash dividend is a possible alternative .
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
If you have your paycheck deposited to a single account , include the amount you 're saving in your normal income budget and then make sure your savings goal at the bottom is funded . ( The Savings Goal is a discrete feature in Mint . Use it . ) Record the transaction on either end as a transfer : it wo n't show up in any of your budget lines . If you have part of your paycheck deposited to a separate savings account , and Mint sees the transaction with your normal income , do the same basic setup ( except you wo n't see the transfer ) . If a portion of your paycheck is sent somewhere like a retirement plan or 401 ( k ) such that Mint does n't record a transaction for the income , exclude the amount from your income budgets and check the option on your goal that says it 's being funded independently ( it 'll appear greyed out on the bottom . )
Depends on the State . In California , for example , you pay a franchise tax of $ 800 every year just for having LLC , and in addition to that - income tax on gross revenue . But in other States ( like Wyoming , for example ) there 's no taxes at all , only registration fees ( which may still amount to ~ $ 100-300 a year ) . IRS does n't care about LLC 's at all ( unless you chose to treat is as a corporation ) . You need to understand that in the US we have the " Federal Government " ( IRS is part of that ) and the " State Government " that deals with business entities , in each of the 50 States . Since you 're talking about Italy , and not EU , you should similarly be talking about the relevant State , and not US .
Under current US tax code , you can receive $ 14K from an unlimited number of people with no tax consequence to them . Yes , the burden is on the giver . There 's an exception to most rules . If I gift you a large sum and do n't fill out the required paperwork , paying the tax due , the IRS can go after the recipient for their cut . " Follow the money " is still going to be applied . Even if over $ 14K , a tax is n't always due . <URL> is required , and will allow a credit against one 's lifetime gifting , currently $ 5.34 M . In effect , the current limits mean that 99 % + of us will never worry about this limit , just file the paperwork . Last , the 529 College Savings accounts permit a 5 year look ahead , i.e. a parent can deposit $ 70K to jump start her child 's account . Then no gift for next 4 years .
end question
start question
I 've heard that it 's never a good idea to go with payment protection plans offered by credit card companies . Is this true ?
Think about who are they protecting : only themselves . Just like mortgage insurance , you pay the premium so in case you ca n't pay your bill , they still get to cash in the policy . Upside , you do n't owe them money when you ca n't pay . Downside , you more or less paid them . If you get hurt , ca n't work and ca n't pay your bills the best option for you is to call your creditors and try to arrange something specific to the situation . But only when it happens . If things go completely wrong , or there is a debt attributed to you that is n't really yours , you have the option to not pay them . So my opinion is why pay for insurance for them , let the bank pay their own premiums .
Yup . It 's totally legit and it is not a money market account . Though interest rates are so low across the board , this is about as high as savings accounts get and so it is called a " high-yield savings account " . A number of banks offer these . There are different offerings nation-wide versus local/state . I would use this <URL> at DepositAccounts.com to find them and the blog is very good with updates and trends . Here are some well advertised accounts : <URL> 1.35 % <URL> 1.30 % <URL> 1.25 % plus a 10 % bonus <URL> 1.20 % <URL> 1.05 % <URL> 1.00 % If you do n't already have a rewards checking account , get one of those first . DepositAccounts.com will direct you to these as well . A reasonable interest rate on rewards checking is 2.5 % and up . So much better . The only catches are reasonable - online statements , direct deposit or autopay , and use your debit card 10 or 12 times a month for any transaction amount ( groceries , coffee , gas - easy ) . The other major thing I would consider when opening any account is where you live and the current accounts you have . If you have an AMEX card already , just use their savings account . That way you have unified accounts , faster transfers , your personal information is n't spread thinly around all different banks , you have more leverage with the company as a " long-standing customer " , etc. . As far as using a bank in the state where you live , it simplifies taxes . Two more things : I would always choose a credit union over a bank ( and many have excellent rewards checking accounts ) . If you use Mint , Yodlee , or other financial software , make sure the potential new bank integrates with that service .
The Federal Trade Commission has a page on <URL> . According to them , under the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ) both the credit reporting agency and the information provider ( credit card company ) are responsible for correcting the error on your credit report . They recommend contacting both in writing , and even have sample letters that you can use . Specifically , when you contact the credit reporting agency in writing , they are required to investigate and get back to you . Since you 've already seen that the accounts are marked as disputed on your credit report , perhaps contacting the credit reporting agencies is unnecessary . But it would n't hurt . At the very least , it might be worth a phone call to the credit reporting agencies to ask them if they need a letter from you . Something else you could try is the FTC 's recently updated <URL> . This allows you to report the identity theft and offers you information on the recommended steps you should take . I do n't know what exactly it does , but I see that " open a fraudulent credit card account " is one of the choices for reporting . Identitytheft.gov also has a <URL> .
Not true . There is , however , an ongoing debate about it . Are they worth the time/money to mint . How much to retailers " spend " on tracking , counting , sorting , etc. . The last highly publicised event in Canada was a private members bill <URL> . Other countries that have eliminated their equivalent have indeed followed the rounding methodology ; reference <URL> . So for example if we were to eliminate the penny and keep the nickel . All purchases would be added up using their penny price . Then if the total ended in 1,2,6,7 it is rounded down , and the rest up ( or left as zero and five ) . 2012-03-29 Breaking News : The Canadian federal <URL> released today is indeed phasing out the penny . " The Royal Canadian Mint will no longer distribute pennies as of Fall 2012 . " They will , however , remain legal tender indefinitely , and redeemable at any bank . Non-cash transactions like debit and credit will retain cent denominations , but cash remainder values of 0.01 or 0.02 will round down , while 0.03 and 0.04 will round up .
The power of compounding interest and returns is an amazing thing . Start educating yourself about investing , and do it -- there are great Q&amp;A s on this site , numerous books ( I recommend " The Intelligent Investor " , tools for small investors ( like Sharebuilder.com ) and other resources out there to get you started . Your portfolio does n't need to include every dime you have either . But you do need to develop the discipline to save money -- even if that savings is $ 20 while you 're in school . How you split between cash/deposit account savings and other investment vehicles is a decision that needs to make sense to you .
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
They will credit your account and it will be applied to future purchases . If the credit card is not used for several months , they will send you a check or transfer it to your bank account . Some people on this site have actually considered sending money to the credit card company in advance , so that the amount that can be charged is temporarily inflated . Keep in mind they will eventually refund the money . Plus you will not earn interest on the refund .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
Generally there 's no ultimate protection against charge backs . Some methods are easier to charge back and some harder , and there 's always the resort of going to courts . The hardest to contest is , of course , a cash payment or wire transfer . You need to remember that imposing unnecessary/unreasonable difficulties on your customers will drive business away . I can buy diamonds in the nearest mall with my credit card - why would I buy from you if you want cash , BTC , or any other shady way to pay ? I 'm pretty sure that whatever that is you 're selling , anyone can buy elsewhere as well .
You could make an entry for the disputed charge as if you were going to lose the dispute , and a second entry that reverses the charge as if you were going to win the dispute . You could then reconcile the account by including the first charge in the reconciliation and excluding the reversal until the issue has been resolved .
Do not provide any personal information . If the debt is not yours , ask the caller to provide all the identifying information they have over the phone to verify whether they have your information , or are just following up on similar names . Even if they have information that is yours , do not provide more information . Always make them tell you what they know . If they provide information that is not yours , simply state that it is not your information and politely end the call . If they persist in calling you , there are local agencies you can report them to . If they have your information , then ask for all of the details of the debt -- who is it owed to , when was the debt incurred , what was the original amount of the debt , what is the current balance , when was the last activity on the account , what is their relation to creditor . Once you know the creditor , you can contact them directly for more information . It is possible they may have written off the account and closed it , selling it to a debt collector in order to get some sort of return on debt . If they truly have a debt that is yours , and you did not incur it , then you will need to file a police report for a case of identity theft . Be prepared for some scrutiny .
Yes , its called the Credit Card reform act and it went into effect in February 2010 .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
Each merchant is assigned a category , and all the purchases through that merchant fall into that category . If a merchant qualifies for more than one category ( e.g. : Costco &amp; Costco Gas ) , then for different purchases the merchant will use different merchant ID 's . These codes are called " <URL> " , and the merchant fees are also decided based on the category assigned to the merchant ( the same merchant with several codes will pay higher fees on some codes than the others ) . You can see the purchase categories on your credit card purchases regardless of whether you get rewards or not , this information is usually available through your statement or on-line .
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
First , let me fill in the gaps on your situation , based on the numbers you 've given so far . I estimate that your student loan balance ( principal ) is <URL> . With the variable rate loan option that you 've presented , the maximum interest rate you could be charged would be <URL> , which would bring your monthly payment up to that $ 382 number you gave in the comments . Your thoughts are correct about the advantage to paying this loan off sooner . If you are planning on paying off this loan sooner , the interest rate on the variable rate loan has less opportunity to climb . One thing to be cautious of with the comparison , though : The $ 1200 difference between the two options is only valid if your rate does not increase . If the rate does increase , of course , the difference would be less , or it could even go the other way . So keep in mind that the $ 1200 savings is only a theoretical maximum ; you wo n't actually see that much savings with the variable rate option . Before making a decision , you need to find out more about the terms of this variable rate loan : How often can your rate go up ? What is the loan rate based on ? I 'm not as familiar with student loan variable rate loans , but there are other variable rate loans I am familiar with : With a typical adjustable rate home mortgage , the rate is locked for a certain number of years ( perhaps 5 years ) . After that , the bank might be allowed to raise the rate once every period of months ( perhaps once every year ) . There will be a limit to how much the rate can rise on each increase ( perhaps 1.0 % ) , and there will be a maximum rate that could be charged over the life of the loan ( perhaps 12 % ) . The interest rate on your mortgage can adjust up , inside of those parameters . ( The actual formula used to adjust will be found in the fine print of your mortgage contract . ) However , the bank knows that if they let your rate get too high above the current market rates , you will refinance to a different bank . So the mortgage is typically structured so that it will raise your rate somewhat , but it wo n't usually get too far above the market rate . If you knew ahead of time that you would have the house paid off in 5 years , or that you would be selling the house before the 5 years is over , you could confidently take the adjustable rate mortgage . Credit cards , on the other hand , also typically have variable rates . These rates can change every month , but they are usually calculated on some formula determined ahead of time . For example , on my credit card , the interest rate is the published <URL> plus 13.65 % . On my last statement , it said the rate was 17.15 % . ( Of course , because I pay my balance in full each month , I do n't pay any interest . The rate could go up to 50 % , for all I care . ) As I said , I do n't know what determines the rate on your variable rate student loan option , and I do n't know what the limits are . If it climbs up to 11.5 % , that is obviously ridiculously high . I recommend that you try to pay off this student loan as soon as you possibly can ; however , if you are not planning on paying off this student loan early , you need to try to determine how likely the rate is to climb if you want to pick the variable rate option .
I 'm not a lawyer , and am certainly not familiar with your jurisdiction , but the general guidelines I 've seen around this kind of situation are : See if you can locate the original email . Generally it 's a good idea to archive important sent mails and/or bcc yourself so you have a record that could be matched to the server logs . If you can locate the mail , forward it onto them again with a cover explaining that you want to cancel your contract and have the charges refunded . Either way you should phone them , if you had the email explain that you 're following up on your email and would like to establish how the charges can be stopped and refunded . They may then sort it all out , maybe . If you have no record , you may just have to swallow the previous charges but make sure you get from them the exact procedure to cancel the contract . Follow that procedure to the letter requesting an acknowledgment ( and copying yourself again ) and follow up again with another call to ensure they are cancelling the contract . If you still get nowhere , you should contact your credit card company to explain the situation and see what their process for dealing with disputes is . This can be long and drawn out though . If all else fails , you could just cancel the card , though I 'm not sure what liability you have to honour the contract . I cancelled a card once to stop being charged by a particularly annoying company and had no problems , but I 'm not sure if that is a good way to deal with it in general .
end question
start question
Can gold prices vary between two places or country at the same time ?
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
If you owe a lot of money ( more then $ 500 or $ 1000 ) you will get hit with penalties . You will also have to file every quarter the next year . That is very painful . There is a safe harbor if you make sure that you have withheld more money than your taxes from the previous year . The information you provided is not enough for me to give specific advice . But here is a hint : Right after you file this year , use turbo tax to determine what changes you can make to your withholding to minimize any excess withholding .
When over the long term housing costs in a area rise faster than wages rise , the demographic of who lives in the area changes . The size and income parameters change . A region that was full of young singles is now populated with couples with adult children , that means that the businesses and amenities have to change . At a national level it is n't sustainable unless other items change . The portion of monthly income that can be safely allocated to housing would have to change . One adjustment could be the the lengthening of home loan periods , thus dropping the monthly payment . This has been seen with car loans , over the last few decades the length of loans has increased . In interesting related event could be the change in deduction of mortgage interest and property tax . If this was to change abruptly , there could be an abrupt change the estimated value of housing , because the calculus of affordability would change .
Yes , transferring in to an ISA does not count as subscribing to it , and it is subscriptions that are limited to one per year . See eg <URL> - I wo n't paste an excerpt as it really needs the context of all the answers on the page , but in summary it supports my " Yes you can " above . By the way , if you want a definitive answer from HMRC you can ring their <URL> : ISA Helpline For general enquiries about tax rules on ISAs and more information on Junior ISAs Individual Savings Account Helpline is part of the Savings Helpline Opening hours 8.00 am to 8.00 pm , Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.00 pm Saturday 08456041701
Unfortunately you have to take the deduction in the proper tax year . Your 2015 contribution , even if made in 2016 impacts the taxes you file in April 2016 . The logic allows taxpayers to decide how much to contribute into a IRA or Roth IRA after all the other calculations have been done . Some people are near the cutoffs and ca n't know what makes sense or what is allowed until all the numbers are in . This following suggestion may seem counter-intuitive ; but if you are in a very low tax bracket this year , and expect to be in a very high bracket next year you might consider a Roth IRA for your 2015 contribution . For the low level of taxes you will pay on that $ 5500 now , you can pull all the gains out tax free when you retire , which may be decades from now .
The debt is absolutely real . China loans money to US via buying the US treasury bonds . The bond is essentially a promise to pay back the money with interest , just like a loan . As you point out , the US can print money . If this were to happen , then the USD that the owner of a treasury bond receives when the bond matures are worth less that than the USD used to purchase the bonds . There are lots of reasons why the US does n't want to print lots of money , so the purchaser of the bond is probably confident it wo n't happen . If for some reason they think it is possible , then they will want to cover that risk by only purchasing bonds that have a higher interest rate . The higher interest offsets the risk of the USD being worth less . Of course , there are lots more details , e.g. , the bonds themselves are bought and sold before maturity , but this is the basic idea .
After consulting an accountant , it would appear there is no problem with the shares being held jointly in two , or even more names . In the event that the shares attract a dividend it would be split equally between the shareholders and would have the same taxation implications for the shareholders as all UK company dividends . Thanks for all help provided !
This is just a guess but I would imagine that it has to do with risk . The deposits in Banks are usually as safe as government bonds ( broad oversimplification ) as : Usually bank deposits are insured by local equivalent of FDIC . I 'm not sure about local regulation but it means that they are backed partially by the government - at least this is the case in US and EU . If government is close to default it can and do freeze the Bank assets . For example see Cyprus bank tax in 2013 . The US government is considered the most trustworthy - even in unlikely event of being close to default it would be rescued by FED ( so it can just print the money ) . So the banks at the same time have very low competition regarding government bonds and the investments they can do have relatively low ROI so they can not offer much more competitive rates . On the other hand Ukrainian bonds have current rating Caa3/CCC - / CCC - i.e. the Goverment is judged to be likely to default ( as you pointed out there is war going on ) and in result the government bonds are considered highly speculative . Therefore to attract foreign investors they need to have high interest rating . Similarly the CDs at the banks can be considered at the risk of being lost so to prevent flight of capital overseas ( or people keeping USD in cash form at home ) they need to offer rates that reflect the risk .
It 's not uniform at all . Some states already stabilized the real estate prices , other keep losing value . Florida , Nevada and California were probably hit the most . In some parts of New York City prices never really went down ( IMHO ) . Here is just one of the maps showing foreclosure rates for 2010 : <URL>
In India , in the money options get exercised automatically at the end of the day and is settled at T +1 ( Where T is expiry day ) . This means , the clearing house takes the closing price of the underlying security while calculating the amount that needs to be credited/debited to its members . Source : - <URL>
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
His investment in the home country would be affected by the home country inflation rates , since it probably would be made in his home currency ( let 's call it H$ ) - so if he invested 1000 H$ 10 years ago and now has 2000 H$ , he may be able to buy less for these money ( in his home country ) than before . Also he may be influenced by the exchange rate - i.e. how many H$ one gets for his US$ , since I assume he is paid in US$ , but in his home country he would probably invest in H$ . If inflation is high in his home country , his assets in H$ may depreciate quickly and cost less than if he kept them in US$ . But this rate is affected by both inflation rates , and exchange rates can be influenced by other factors too .
Stock prices are indeed proportional to supply and demand . The greater the demand for a stock , the greater the price . If they are , would this mean that stock prices completely depend on HOW the public FEELS/THINKS about the stock instead of what it is actually worth ? This is a question people have argued for decades . Literature in behavioral finance suggests that investors are not rational and thus markets are subject to wild fluctuation based on investor sentiment . The efficient market theory ( EMT ) argues that the stock market is efficient and that a stock 's price is an accurate reflection of its underlying or intrinsic value . This philosophy took birth with Harry Markovitz 's efficient frontier , and Eugene Fama is generally seen as the champion of EMT in the 1960 's and onward . Most investors today would agree that the markets are not perfectly efficient , and that a stock 's price does not always reflect its value . The renowned professor Benjamin Graham once wrote : In the short run , the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a weighing machine . This suggests that prices in the short term are mainly influenced by how people feel about the stock , while in the long run the price reflects what it 's actually worth . For example , people are really big fans of tech stocks right now , which suggests why LinkedIn ( stock : LNKD ) has such a high share price despite its modest earnings ( relative to valuation ) . People feel really good about it , and the price might sustain if LinkedIn becomes more and more profitable , but it 's also possible that their results wo n't be absolutely stellar , so the stock price will fall until it reflects the company 's fundamentals .
As I argued in the comment to your question , your assumption is flawed . Here are some facts that counter your assumption ( <URL> ) : Fact # 1 : Gold went from $ 105 in 1976 to $ 850 in January , 1980 . Consumer prices increased by about 28 % . Verify this <URL> . Fact # 2 : Gold went from $ 850 in 1980 to $ 256 in 2001 . Consumer prices more than doubled . Fact # 3 : Gold went from $ 256 in 2001 to $ 1,011 in March , 2008 . Consumer prices went up about 20 % . <URL> is also pretty good article on Comparing correlation between Gold and Inflation .
I do n't think so . I found <URL> : information for those organizations ( " data providers " ) that report their accounts receivable data to TransUnion . It explains the steps needed for becoming a data provider . It 's a <URL> , but the most obvious deal-breaker in your case is that a data provider has to have at least 100 accounts . Your family member evidently has only 1 . I could n't find similar information for the other two major US credit reporting agencies ( Experian and Equifax ) but I am inclined to think it is probably similar .
The default of the country will affect the country obligations and what 's tied to it . If you have treasury bonds , for example - they 'll get hit . If you have cash currency - it will get hit . If you 're invested in the stock market , however , it may plunge , but will recover , and in the long run you wo n't get hit . If you 're invested in foreign countries ( through foreign currency or foreign stocks that you hold ) , then the default of your local government may have less affect there , if at all . What you should not , in my humble opinion , be doing is digging holes in the ground or probably not exchange all your cash for gold ( although it is considered a safe anchor in case of monetary crisis , so may be worth considering some diversifying your portfolio with some gold ) . Splitting between banks might not make any difference at all because the value wo n't change , unless you think that one of the banks will fail ( then just close the account there ) . The bottom line is that the key is diversifying , and you do n't have to be a seasoned investor for that . I 'm sure there are mutual funds in Greece , just pick several different funds ( from several different companies ) that provide diversified investment , and put your money there .
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
This is essentially a question about timing the market , which is pretty much doomed . The problem is that most investments do n't just go up as if they paid interest regularly . They fluctuate . If you put $ 6000 into stocks at the beginning of the year and the stocks go up you feel good . If they go down you kick yourself for not holding off . So pick a strategy that matches your cash flow and do n't pay attention to the short-term swings .
You are correct that it could refer to any of the types of interest rates that you 've mentioned . In general , though , phrases such as " rising interest rates " and " falling interest rates " refer to the <URL> or <URL> . These are the interest rates at which banks in the U.S. and U.K. , respectively , are lending money to each other .
end question
start question
Is it wise to switch investment strategy frequently ?
I understand you 're trying to ask a narrow question , but you 're basically asking whether you should time the market . You can find tons of books saying you should n't try it , and tons more confirming that you can . Both will have data and anecdotes to back them up . So I 'll give you my own opinion . Speculation Market timing , especially in a macro sense , is a zero-sum game . Your first thought should be : I 'm smarter than the average person ; the average person is an idiot . However , remember that a whole lot of the money in the market is not controlled by idiots . You really need to ask yourself if you can compete with people who get paid to spend 12 hours a day trying to beat the market . Investing Stick with a mid-range strategy for now . Your convictions are n't and should n't be strong enough at the moment to do otherwise . But , if you ca n't resist , I say go ahead and do what you feel . Regardless of what you do , your returns over the next 3 years wo n't be life changing . In the meantime , learn as much as you can about investing , and keep a journal of your investment activity to keep yourself honest .
If by " Company Stock " you mean " stock in the company I work for " then absolutely sell your stock . It is too big a risk to have your investments tied into the same company that is also providing your salary . If you mean stock as in general investments , I like to look at it this way . If you have $ 25,000 stock and a $ 100,000 mortgage you ask this question : If I had a $ 75,000 mortgage would I borrow an additional $ 25,000 against my house to invest in the stock market ? If the answer is yes , then you are taking a risk consistent with your tolerance for risk . If you answer no , then your tolerance for risk says you 'd be happier paying down your mortgage .
This is a question of how does someone value a business . Typically , it is some function of how much the company owns , how much the company owes , how risky is the company 's business , and how much the company makes in profit . For example if a company ( or investment ) make $ 100/year , every year no matter what , how much would you pay for that ? If you pay $ 1,000 you 'll make 10 % each year on your investment . Is that a good enough return ? If you think the risk of the company requires a 20 % payoff , you should n't pay more than $ 500 for the company .
No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which has lost a million residents over the past few decades . There is plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it was sold . Other markets are very risky , like Florida , where speculators drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drops in real estate are masked because sellers just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price is if you absolutely had to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much better than that . It is the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that makes most of the returns . In urban markets that are getting an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of markets that do this are rare . Also , if you look at it strictly as an investment ( as opposed to the question of " Is it worth it to own my own home ? " ) there are a lot of additional costs that you have to recoup , from property taxes to bills , rental headaches etc. . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approached with the same due diligence .
Your analysis is not comparing apples to apples which is why it looks like investing money in a non-qualified account is better than a 401k ( traditional or Roth ) . For the non-qual you are using post tax dollars ( money that has already been taxed ) . Now on top of that original tax you are also going to pay capital gains tax for any growth plus dividend rates for any dividends it throws off . For the 401k , let 's assume for the moment that $ 10,000 is invested in a traditional and that the marginal tax rate is always 20 % . And for growth let 's assume 10x . With a traditional your money will grow to $ 100,000 and then the IRS gets $ 20,000 as you pull the money out . The result is a net 80,000 for you . For a Roth 401k , it is taxed first so only $ 8,000 gets invested . This then grows by the same multiplier to $ 80,000 . ( Until you consider changing tax rates the Roth and traditional give the same growth of money ) . Considering the non-qual option , like with the Roth we only have $ 8,000 to invest . However in this case you will not realize the full 10x growth as you will have to pay taxes on $ 72,000 . These are taxes that the 401ks ( and also IRAs ) do not pay . There are other reasons to consider non-qual over maxing out your 401k . Liquidity , quality of investments , and fees being some of those . But the capital gains rate vs. ordinary income rate is not one , as the money in the non-qual still has to go through that ordinary income tax first before it is available to even invest .
Your contributions must come from " compensation " . Quoting <URL> on IRAs , " Generally , compensation is what you earn from working . " So it is unlikely that your stock sale proceeds , if they 're your sole source of income , can be used to fund your IRA . If you do have W-2 income , or self employment income , you can use the proceeds of a stock sale to fund an IRA . The IRS does n't care where the exact dollars that go into the IRA come from , only that you earned ( from working ) at least as much as you contributed .
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
It is definitely legal and will be accounted by the IRS as earned income .
I do n't know what you mean by ' major ' . Do you mean the fund company is a Fidelity or Vanguard , or that the fund is broad , as in an s &amp; P fund ? The problem starts with a question of what your goals are . If you already know the recommended mix for your age/risk , as you stated , you should consider minimizing the expenses , and staying DIY . I am further along , and with 12 year 's income saved , a 1 % hit would be 12 % of a year 's pay , I 'd be working 1-1/2 months to pay the planner ? In effect , you are betting that a planner will beat whatever metric you consider valid by at least that 1 % fee , else you can just do it yourself and be that far ahead of the game . I 've accepted the fact that I wo n't beat the average ( as measured by the S&amp;P ) over time , but I 'll beat the average investor . By staying in low cost funds ( my 401 ( k ) S&amp;P fund charges .05 % annual expense ) I 'll be ahead of the investors paying planner fees , and mutual fund fees on top of that . You do n't need to be a CFP to manage your money , but it would help you understand the absurdity of the system .
This sounds like it makes no difference if you behave in the same manner ( i.e. take the same vacation time ) . For example , say you work 1 hour and take 1 hour of vacation and the current hourly rate is $ 1/hour . You would make $ 2 . Using your formula , new rate = 1 * ( 1 +1 ) / 1 = 1 * 2 = $ 2 . So they would pay you $ 2 for the hour you worked and then you would take the 1 hour of vacation with no pay . If you plan on taking LESS vacation than used in the formula , you make more money . If you plan on taking MORE vacation , you make less money .
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
Selftrade does <URL> . Not sure if you 'll be able to sign up from the US though , particularly given the <URL> .
No . In good years , the income seems free . In a down year , particularly a bad one , the investor will be subject to large losses that will prove the strategy a bad one . On the other hand , one often hears of the strategy of selling puts on stock you would like to own . If the stock rises , you keep the premium , if it drops , you own it at a bit of a discount from that starting point .
Most people carry a diversity of stock , bond , and commodities in their portfolio . The ratio and types of these investments should be based on your goals and risk tolerance . I personally choose to manage mine through <URL> which combine the three , but <URL> are also becoming popular . As for where you keep your portfolio , it depends on what you 're investing for . If you 're investing for retirement you are definitely best to keep as much of your investment as possible in <URL> or <URL> ( preferably <URL> ) . Many advisers suggest contributing as much to your 401k as your company matches , then the rest to IRA , and if you over contribute for the IRA back to the 401k . You may choose to skip the 401k if you are not comfortable with the choices your company offers in it ( such as only investing in company stock ) . If you are investing for a point closer than retirement and you still want the risk ( and reward potential ) of stock I would suggest investing in <URL> , or eating the tax and investing in regular mutual funds . If you are going to take money out before retirement the penalties of a 401k or IRA make it not worth doing . Technically a savings account is n't investing , but rather a place to store money .
First you will need a plan stating three main points : What to buy ? When to buy ? When to sell ? You will have to decide what criteria you will use to answer these points . You might use Fundamental Analysis to find what to buy and Technical Analysis to decide when to buy and when to sell ( your buy and sell triggers ) . Once you have a Trading Plan in place you would need to find a broker with conditional orders . You can place conditional buy orders to get in a trade ( for example if the price moves above or below a target price ) . You can place conditional stop loss orders if your trade goes against you , and you can also place conditional profit target stops to automatically get out if rises to your desired profit target . You can place one , two or many conditional orders after hours which will enable you to trade without being in front of your screen all day long .
If you buy a call , that 's because you expect that the stock will go up . If it does not go up , then forget about buying more calls as your initial idea seems to be wrong . And I do n't think that buying a put to make up for the loss will work either , the only thing that is sure is that you will pay another premium ( on a stock that could stay where it is ) . Even if you are 100 % sure that the stock will go up again , do n't do anything , as John Maynard Keynes stated : " Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent " . My idea is : wait until the expiration date . The good things about options is that you wo n't lose more than the premium that you paid for it and that until it reaches its maturity you can still make money if the market turns around . More generally , when you are purely speculating , adding to a position when it goes against you is called " averaging down " . I sincerely discourage you to do that : If the stocks goes in the wrong direction , that means that your initial idea was wrong in the first place ( or you were not right at the right moment ) . In my opinion , adding up to a wrong idea is not the right thing to do . When you are losing , just take your loss and do n't add up to your position based on your emotions . On the other hand , adding to your position more when the stock goes in your direction is called " pyramiding " and is , in my opinion , a better way of doing things ( you bought , you were right , let 's buy more ) . But at some point you will have to take your profits . There are plenty of other stocks on which you can try to invest and the market will still be here tomorrow , there will be other opportunities to make profits . Rushing things by constantly trying to have a position is not a good idea . Not doing anything is also a strategy .
IANAL ( and nor am I an accountant ) , so I ca n't give a definitive answer as to legality , but AFAIK , what you propose is legal . But what 's the benefit ? Avoiding corporation tax ? It 's simplistic -- and costly -- to think in terms like that . You need to run the numbers for different scenarios , and make a plan . You can end up ahead of the game precisely by choosing to pay some corporate tax each year . Really ! Read on . One of the many reasons that self-employed Canadians sometimes opt for a corporate structure over being a sole proprietor is to be able to not pay themselves everything the company earns each year . This is especially important when a business has some really good years , and others , meh . Using the corporation to retain earnings can be more tax effective . Example : Imagine your corporation earns , net of accounting &amp; other non-tax costs except for your draws , $ 120,000 / year for 5 years , and $ 0 in year 6 . Assume the business is your only source of income for those 6 years . Would you rather : Pay yourself the entire $ 120,000 / yr in years 1-5 , then $ 0 in year 6 ( living off personal savings you hopefully accumulated earlier ) , subjecting the $ 120,000 / yr to personal income tax only , leaving nothing in the corporation to be taxed ? Very roughly speaking , assuming tax rates &amp; brackets are level from year to year , and using <URL> calculator ( which simplifies certain things ) , then in Ontario , then you 'd net ~ $ 84,878 / yr for years 1-5 , and $ 0 in year 6 . Overall , you realized $ 424,390 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600,000 was 29.26 % . vs. Pay yourself only $ 100,000 / yr in years 1-5 , leaving $ 20,000 / yr subject to corporation tax . Assuming a 15.5 % combined federal/provincial corporate tax rate ( includes the <URL> ) , then the corp. is left with $ 16,900 / yr to add to retained earnings in years 1-5 . In year 6 , the corp. has $ 84,500 in retained earnings to be distributed to you , the sole owner , as a dividend ( of the non-eligible kind . ) Again , very roughly speaking , you 'd personally net $ 73,560 / yr in years 1-5 , and then on the $ 84,500 dividend in year 6 , you 'd net $ 73,658 . Overall , you realized $ 441,458 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600K was 26.42 % . i.e. Scenario 2 , which spreads the income out over the six years , saved 2.84 % in tax , or $ 14,400 . Smoothing out your income is also a prudent thing to do . Would you rather find yourself in year 6 , having no clients and no revenue , with nothing left to draw on ? Or would you rather the company had saved money from the good years to pay you in the lean one ?
According to <URL> : Loans can only be re-consolidated if the borrower has a new loan to add . ABC News <URL> : In 2006 , Congress eliminated joint consolidation loans for married couples So it would seem that you can consolidate her loans into one or two loans , but those can not be combined with yours .
There are ways to mitigate , but since you 're not protected by a tax-deferred/advantaged account , the realized income will be taxed . But you can do any of the followings to reduce the burden : Prefer selling either short positions that are at loss or long positions that are at gain . Do not invest in stocks , but rather in index funds that do the rebalancing for you without ( significant ) tax impact on you . If you are rebalancing portfolio that includes assets that are not stocks ( real-estate , mainly ) consider performing <URL> instead of plain sale and re-purchase . Maximize your IRA contributions , even if non-deductible , and <URL> . Hold your more volatile investments and individual stocks there - you will not be taxed when rebalancing . Maximize your 401K , HSA , SEP-IRA and any other tax-advantaged account you may be eligible for . On some accounts you 'll pay taxes when withdrawing , on others - you wo n't . For example - Roth IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all when withdrawing qualified distributions , while traditional IRA/401k are taxed as ordinary income . During the " low income " years , consider converting portions of traditional accounts to Roth .
I would create a " Rollover IRA " . These IRAs are designed to take funds from a 401k and allow you to invest them without incurring a cash out penalty nor a tax due . You will have more choices than if you leave it at your old 401k . If you cash out the 401k , you 'll have much less to invest ( $ 1500 - penalty - taxes ) vs. doing a rollover 401k where you 'll still have $ 1500 to invest . Then , once the money is inside the new Rollover IRA you can invest in whatever you please . If you want to invest in Vanguard funds , I recommend opening the Rollover IRA at Vanguard . Here is Vanguard 's information page about rollovers from 401ks : <URL> When you next change jobs and have another 401k with funds in it , you can roll it into the same Rollover IRA .
end question
start question
How does TFSA contribution room carryover work , e.g. unused amounts and withdrawals ?
Is the TFSA contribution limit per year $ 5000/person ? The annual TFSA dollar limit for 2009 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 was $ 5,000 . For the years 2013 , 2014 and 2015 it was $ 5,500 . How are unused contributions carried over ? Any unused TFSA contribution room from the previous year and any withdrawals made from the TFSA in the previous year are carried over . If last year I contributed only $ 3000 , then this year , would I have $ 7000 contribution room available ? You would have $ 2500 left over from last year and an extra $ 5500 this year which equals to $ 8000 assuming you maxed your TFSA in years previous and including 2013 . Also , if this year I withdraw $ 5000 , does that affect my TFSA contribution room ? You will get back the contribution room next year . Next year you will be able to contribute $ 5500 ( 2016 ) + $ 5000 ( withdrawn this year ) + $ x ( remaining contribution room ) . You can go <URL> for more information .
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
I 'm assuming you mean the H&amp;R Block ' tax centers ' they typically set up in a mall . I used their services once . My experience may not match yours and may not be typical . Essentially , the H&amp;R Block " tax expert " is someone trained to use the H&amp;R Block tax software . This is similar to TurboTax and other such software . You are paying this person to follow prompts on the computer and input the answers you provide , just like TurboTax and similar software works . My " tax expert " was unable to answer basic tax questions and could not even operate her calculator properly . In every way , the experience was worse than just using TurboTax on my own computer . Now , this service may make sense for you if , for example , you can not operate a computer or can not see well enough to read the information on your tax documents . You may also prefer the H&amp;R Block tax software over all other competing products , though in this case , you may wish to just use the software online or download it , rather than paying a " tax expert " to run it on your behalf . It 's also certainly the case that many " tax experts " are actually fully-fledged accountants who are just picking up some work on the side . If your taxes are significantly more complicated , you would do well to hire an accountant who specialises in tax returns . There will almost certainly be very many in your community . This will certainly cost more than this year 's tax software , but may well be a good option for you .
As per RBI regulations , all transaction originated in India [ i.e. Merchants in India ] and cards issued in India . As of now if a merchant is not in India , then OTP or additional password is not required . The Financial Institutions had contended that making changes for Gateways outside of India would be a technical challenge . This was accepted by RBI as it was deemed that number of user 's doing international transaction is small and hence the chances of fraud are less . Quite a few companies , UberCabs for example switched the gateway to US so that they could bill customers without OTP .
Credit ratings are the same as credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score is a calculated number based on a usually secret formula that attempts to quantify with math a consistent number that ranks everybody equally and uniformly as to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we are all just a number ; the higher the better . Your credit report is a detailed list of all your accounts , how well you pay them and if you are behind or have settled them as agreed . It is a detailed history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have had credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report relies on lenders honestly and accurately stating how your account is performing with them . Some radio show hosts ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizens have a mistake on their credit reports . The credit report is the source of values that are computed into your credit score . By and large , your credit score gives a lender a good idea if you are acceptable , but if you number is on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score is how retail stores can offer and immediately approve store cards . If you number is high enough , credit you get . Source : <URL> EDIT : I did n't read well the first time , but sine I typed it I will leave it here . Sorry for rushing and not reading well .
JoeTaxpayer 's answer adequately explained leverage and some of your risks . Your risks also include : If your balance drops too low , below the required margin , but still positive , the broker can close your trade . It has been reported that some forex brokers will review margin call accounts in an unscrupulous way , after reviewing the currency 's chart for the day , closing out accounts at the worst price of the day instead of the price at which margin was insufficient . Spikes . Some brokers report price spikes in the buying or selling price which can cause your trade to be closed out unfavorably . These spikes may or may not exist at other forex brokerages or in futures market prices . Unlike the stock market and unlike the futures market , there is not a central forex market and so there is not a definitive price/time chart that could aid in holding a broker accountable for any unusual executions on your trades . You could indeed be trading in a small " bubble " of the " real " forex market . Should your broker 's internet site go down at the wrong time , or the broker have to close its doors , you may not be able to control your account for a time long enough to lose substantial amounts of money . Your account might then be closed for low margin , or closed out as zero or negative . Unlike accounts for trading in the stock and futures markets , a forex account can not be easily transferred . This exacerbates risk ( 4 ) , compared to what would happen at a bankrupt or government-seized stock or futures broker . The firm 's risk is that you will figure out a way to leave them with a negative account that contributes to another customer 's profit and yet you disappear in a way that makes the negative account impossible to collect . Another risk is that you are not who you say you are , or that the money you invest is not yours . These are called " know your customer " risks .
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
Money laundering alarms would definitely be raised , way before you walking in with the cash to deposit . Every cash transaction over $ 10K will be reported by the bank ( and not only banks have to report ) , so the report will be sent when you withdraw the money , as well . But if the money is legitimately yours and you can show the sources , then you should n't be worried . There 's no law against having cash . Its just very hard to track down the cash money sources , and if someone asks you and you can not show the proofs - the problem would definitely be yours .
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
The phrase does n't mean anything specifically . Your SO could start paying the payments , but the title and lien would remain in your name . If you wanted to change the title or lien to be in her name , you would have to sell the car to her ( sales tax would be involved but the process would be relatively painless ) . You could sell her the car for a pretty cheap price , but not $ 1 . ( unless the depreciated value of the car was less than the rest of the loan amount ) . You could draft up an agreement that if you break up or something , she agrees to buy the car from you for $ x dollars minus all the payments she has made on the car .
My husband had this come up when he went to Kuwait from August2006 - August 2007 . Its all based on the percentage of the time . So say the first 90k is taxfree . If you were there 3 months of that tax year then 25 % of 90,000 is your " tax-free " income and the rest of the money earned in those 3 months is taxed at the appropriate tax bracket rate . Then the following year you take the other 75 % ( 67,500 ) free and tax the rest . You will have to pay your estimated taxes and file an extension for the first year so that you can prove the 330/365 days to the IRS . Get a really good accountant or you will still be paying taxes and penalties years later like we are .
No , you give them your account and routing number , and they pre-print it . It has to be printed with a special MICR ink and with a special font . You can buy a cartridge of such ink for your printer and print it yourself on a bunch of stock check paper , but it wo n't be any cheaper . <URL> : The bottom line on all checks printed and used in North America ( and many other countries worldwide ) is printed using a special font called MICR ( short for Magnetic Ink Character Recognition ) . MICR is usually pronounced My-ker . The bottom line on a check must always be printed in the MICR typeface using a special magnetic ink . The MICR line on a check allows the check information to be automatically read by inexpensive machines . This is the only way that huge numbers of checks can be processed each day . MICR line printing needs to be accurate to better than 1 part in 1,000 ! Your magnetic toner must stay on the paper under adverse conditions and have a specific signal strength . You can look at prices at Walmart , Costco or Vistaprint , they 're all pretty cheap .
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
Your social security number is broken into parts which you noted , the first basically what state ( variations in the number designate which county ) and the middle is group ( basically if you were to slice the country into strips vertically , which one you are in ) and finally the last 4 which do appear to be random but are actually based on unique algorithms used from each state that generate the first 3 numbers based on your DOB , last name , DOI and the last digit is what number of people have that number and you increment . So for example , if your info yields 123x and there are 4 people with that as well , you become 1235 and if you are say the 46th person with that , you become 1276 and etc. . Now the combination of state , group yield which algorithm to use and applies it to the last 4 to see if its valid , if it does n't pass validation , it will be rejected immediately and they usually send you a letter asking you to provide copies of stuff . If it passes the validation , then it allows them to request a soft inquiry of your credit with whichever bureau they happen to use , I believe TU for most , EX for far west and EQ for far east , and go from there . Just keep in mind , its not JUST your DOB and Last 4 , they also have your name . If there is a vague response from the system ( meaning matches multiple people hits ) then OSCAR will use some heuristics to find the best match with your peripheral information but if not , then it will kick it to " further review " where a human needs to take over . Hope that helps .
The fee you were charged to get the money order is gone . You agreed to that fee when you purchased the Money order . It is now a check that you can use how ever you wish . If you have already added a name to the pay to line it can be changed but different agencies have different rules for what they will accept . Take the money order to your bank explain the situation and tell them you want to put the money in your account , or cash it .
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
There are no " rules " about how the price should act after an IPO , so there are no guarantee that a " pop " would appear at the opening day . But when an IPO is done , it 's typically underpriced . On average , the shares are 10 % up at the end of the first day after the IPO ( I do n't have the source that , I just remember that from some finance course ) . Also , after the IPO , the underwriter can be asked to support the trading of the share for a certain period of time . That is the so called stabilizing agent . They have few obligations like : Providing liquidity to avoid strong price movement . Supporting the price by buying the share below a certain level . This price support in often done by a repurchase of some of the shares of poorly performing IPO . EDIT : Informations about the overallotment pool . When the IPO is done , a certain number of client buy the shares issued by the company . The underwriter , with the clients , can decide to create an overallotment pool , where the clients would get a little more shares ( hence " overallotment " ) , but this time the shares are not issued by the company but by the underwriter . To put it another way , the underwriter oversell and becomes short by a certain number of shares ( limited to 15 % of the IPO ) . In exchange for the risk taken by this overallotment , the underwriter gets a greenshoe option from the clients , that will allows the underwriter to buy back the oversold shares , at the price of the IPO , from the clients . The idea behind this option is to avoid a market exposure for the underwriter . So , after the IPO : If the price goes down , the underwriter buys back on the market the overshorted shares and makes a profits . If the price goes up , the company exercise the greenshoe option buy the shares at the IPO prices ( throught the overallotment pool , that is , the additional shares that the clients wanted ) to avoid suffering a loss .
Having money held from one paycheck hardly counts as being covered by a retirement plan in my book ! It 's not your book that counts , it 's the Congress ' book called the Internal Revenue Code . No , you can not rescind a contribution after the fact . Maybe during the year you can do something with employer balancing it out , but not after the year is closed . ( That , by the way , is different for IRAs where you can actually do re-characterization until the tax day of the next year )
There is a large market where notes/bills/bonds are traded , so yes you can sell them later . However , if interest rates go up , the value of any bond that you want to sell goes down , because you now have to compete with what someone can get on a new issue , so you need to ' discount ' the principal value of your bond in order for someone to want to buy it instead of a new bond that has a higher interest rate . The reverse applies if interest rates fall ( although it 's hard to get much lower than they are now ) . So someone wanting to make money in bonds due to interest rate changes , generally wants to buy at higher interest rates , and then sell their bonds after rates have gone down . See my answer in this question for more detail <URL> To answer ' is that good ' the answer depends on perspective : For someone wanting to buy a bond and get a return on their investment beyond the security that comes with T-notes/bills/bonds , it 's not good at all . It means very low returns right now for risk adverse investors , in some cases not even keeping pace with inflation . For the Government , and taxpayers , it 's good because the government can finance the national debt ( either items coming due , or new debt ) for almost free , and that means we are not taking an even larger hit out of the budget for finance charges on the debt . So for taxpayers and the Government that 's been on a spending spree ( with the brief exception of a few years during the clinton era ) since Reagan was elected , the low rates are a good thing . If we step beyond Treasury issues , it 's also good for Business that wants to finance new projects , capital improvements , etc , since it also means they can get money fairly cheaply via the corporate bond market .
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
end question
start question
Can somebody give a brief comparison of TSP and IRAs ?
Ideally , one would contribute the maximum amount you 're allowed to both the TSP and an IRA . For the 2015 tax year , that would be $ 18,000 for the TSP and $ 5,500 for the IRA ( if you 're 50 or older , then you can add an additional catch up amount of $ 6,000 to the TSP and $ 1,000 to the IRA ) . If , like most people , you can not contribute the maximum to both , then I would recommend the TSP over an IRA , until you 've maximized your TSP . Unquestionably , you should contribute at least enough to the TSP to get the maximum agency match . Beyond that , there is a case to be made to contribute to an IRA for certain investors . Benefits of TSP , compared to IRA : Cheaper expenses Convenient to have just one retirement account ERISA plans like the TSP have better asset protection provisions than IRAs do It 's harder to mess up with the TSP ; by contrast , IRAs have more flexibility and more opportunity to make unwise investing decisions . Unlike an IRA , you can take a loan from the TSP . That being said , you should avoid doing so . Benefits of IRA , compared to TSP : More investment options . For example , an investor can hold more diverse international stock funds in an IRA , compared to the TSP which has only the I Fund which , while perfectly good , excludes much of the investable international stock market ( emerging markets , small-caps , Canada ) . So , for an investor who wants simplicity , I would recommend just doing the TSP ( unless you can invest more , in which case an IRA is a smart choice ) . For a knowledgeable and motivated investor , it can make sense to also have an IRA to gain access to asset classes not in the TSP 's basic index funds .
You should not have a problem by filing electronically , IF the pension plan distribution you received was from a pre-tax 401-k type plan , and you rolled all of it into another company 's similar pre-tax type pension plan OR rolled it all into a simple IRA within the IRS specified period of time , which I do n't recall . As long as there are no tax implications to the pension plan distribution , you 'll just need to make sure and keep your tax forms with a paper copy of your electronic return . The yearly wage statement will indicate that you received a pension plan distribution , and if you had no withholding from it because of the rollover , that will be indicated . Similarly , you 'll receive a statement from whomever is now the custodian for your distribution , and that will give you documentation should you ever need to present it to the IRS . There are many special cases , however , which I do not cover e.g. if you did keep some amount of the distribution , or if some was taxable and some was not , and so on .
From an article <URL> it would seem that the IRA offers less protection than the 401 ( k ) . This is consistent with other articles I 've read . You do n't ask about divorce . In a divorce , the 401 ( k ) is fair game and it 's one of the times such accounts can be transferred to another individual with no tax consequence . This is through the process know as QDRO ( Qualified domestic relations order ) in which the 401 ( k ) is split to give a portion to the spouse .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
<URL> will track flight prices , so you can know when a good time historically is to make a bunch of reservations . Also , Air India has a frequent flier program so I hope you have signed up for it ... you could get free flights once you get enough points ( although I would probably use your points for upgrades to business class ) .
Since from the question it seems that you 're talking about the US taxation , I 'll assume that . You can definitely continue filing jointly . Being members of a partnership has no bearing on how you file your own tax return . The partnership will distribute K-1 to each of you separately , but you 'll report both of them on the same return .
In the US , a private company with less than 500 owners can dictate who can or ca n't become a shareholder ( this is true in general , but I 'm sure there are loopholes ) . Prior to Google 's IPO I could not buy shares in Google at any price . The reason Google was " forced " to go public is the 500 shareholder rule . At a high level , with 500 shareholders the company is forced to do some extra financial accounting and they no longer can control who owns a share of the company , allowing me to purchase shares of google at that point . At that point , it typically becomes in the companies best interest to go public . See <URL> about Google approaching the 500 shareholder limit in 2003 . Further , Sorkin is not quite correct that " securities laws mandate that the company go public " if by " go public " we mean list on a stock exchange , available for general purchase . Securities laws mandate what has to be reported in financial reporting and when you have to report it . Securities laws also can dictate restrictions on ownership of stock and if a company can impose their own restrictions . A group of investors can not force a company onto a stock exchange . If shares of Facebook are already for sale to anyone , then having > 500 shareholders will force Facebook to file more paperwork with the SEC , it wo n't force Facebook onto the NYSE or NASDAQ . When that point is reached , it may be in Facebook 's best interest to have an IPO , but they will not be required by law to do so . Update : <URL> discusses likely Facebook IPO in 2012 . When companies have more than 500 shareholders , they 're required to make significant financial disclosures -- though they can choose to remain private and keep their stock from trading publicly . However , most companies facing mandatory disclosures opt to go public . The Securities and Exchange Commission gives businesses lots of time to prepare for that milestone . Companies have until 120 days after the end of the fiscal year in which they cross the 500-shareholder line to begin making their disclosures . If Facebook tips the scale this year , that gives it until April 2012 to start filing financial reports .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
No , you can not . 401k must not be discriminatory , i.e. : you can not have different matching for different employees .
Home equity loan is a kind of a mortgage loan . So you 're basically asking " what 's better : mortgage or mortgage ? " . Home equity loan is usually taken as a second mortgage on the house , while you 're still paying the initial one , but accumulated some equity in the property . In the scenario you 're describing , there 's no " second mortgage " , there 's only one mortgage . You can call it " The wonderful glorious bestest ever mortgage " or you can call it " home equity mortgage " , and it would make no difference to the essence . Look at the numbers , and decide which terms are better , not which name sounds nicer to you .
What you are probably interested in doing is a variant of the <URL> of paying down your debt . For an online calculator using a method like what you described , check out <URL> . Here 's the description from the site itself : Snowballing is all about paying your debts in the correct order . Generally speaking you should attempt to pay off the debts with the highest interest rate first . Some people , such as Dave Ramsey suggest you pay the card with the smallest balance first , that 's fine , and can help you feel you 're getting rid of the debt quicker , but it 's not the most efficient way . This calculator allows you to enter up to 20 different debts with their associated APRs , and the total amount you want to spend per month servicing your debts , and it 'll work out the order in which you should pay them together with the monthly payments . [ ... ] [ emphasis mine ] The tool appears to do what you are looking for . Note : The site is in the U.K. and the currency symbol shown is ' # ' , but if you ignore that and look at numbers only , it ought to calculate reasonable results for other countries .
There are two ways to avoid tax on a prize : Refuse the prize completely . Follow the IRS procedures to have your prize directly sent to a charity . ( If you accept the prize and then later donate to charity , you still have to report it as income . ) Neither of these gets the prize to your family , so , if that 's your goal , you 're stuck with the tax . If you want to avoid the tax and do n't care about getting the prize ( for yourself or for your kid ) , you have options . As this Forbes article notes , that you have option # 1 at all is a little surprising in the context of the rest of US tax law , but it is allowed . ( <URL> ) If you want to exercise option # 2 , you need to carefully read the rules in IRS Pub 525 or other official places because there 's a series of requirements and steps that need to be taken to make this happen legally .
According to <URL> , it seems like 401 ( k ) s have unlimited protection , while IRA 's have up to $ 1m in protection . It seems like it 's kind of complicated . If you are trying to protect more than $ 1,000,000 in retirement assets during a personal bankrupcy , you can probably afford to have a good lawyer give you advice .
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
Yes they can , but not a part of the mortgage but the whole remaining sum . I am not so sure about loans , but I would believe they also might have the same . This is from Halifax - > In some circumstances ( normally where you break our agreement ) we may require you to pay off everything you charge , and there are a number of steps we can take , such as taking possession of your property and selling or
In my opinion , the ability to set a sell or buy price is the least of my concerns . Your question of whether to choose individual stocks vs funds prompts a different issue for me to bring to light . Choosing stocks that beat the market is not simple . In fact , a case can be made for the fact that the average fund lags the market by more and more over time . In the end , conceding that fact and going with the lowest cost funds or ETFs will beat 90 % of investors over time .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
Yes , a contribution to a Traditional IRA is an <URL> assuming you meet the requirements <URL> , so you do n't have to itemize to receive it . You only get a deduction for a Traditional IRA ; Roth IRAs are after-tax .
For a lot of info on different funds , fees , average returns , etc , see <URL> . ( Not all sections are free - but areas like Best of the Rest are , and they offer good basic starting info . ) I think for getting further into the nitty-gritty , for example if a fund is socially responsible , you will need to go to the individual fund sites or read reviews - although sites like Morningstar may help . However , a few funds like this are : <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( I 'm with the latter ) . It might be useful to check out their sites to orient yourself to the Aussie approach to this issue , and then start searching more broadly from there . And for what it 's worth , for a general overview of the Superannuation system , and some nice-to-know info , see <URL> on the Oz govt website .
If the stock has low liquidity , yes there could be times when there are no buyers or sellers at a specific price , so if you put a limit order to buy or sell at a price with no other corresponding sellers or buyers , then your order may take a while to get executed or it may not be executed at all . You can usually tell if a stock has low liquidity by the small size of the average daily volume , the lack of order depth and the large size of the gap between bids and offers . So if a stock for example has last sale price of $ 0.50 , has a highest bid price of $ 0.40 and a lowest offer price of $ 0.60 , and an average daily volume of 10000 share , it is likely to be very illiquid . So if you try to buy or sell at around the $ 0.50 mark it might take you a long time to buy or sell this stock at this price .
end question
start question
If a company goes private , does it still count as a capital gain/loss ?
does it still count as a capital gain or loss ? Yes . Is it essentially treated like you sold the stock at the price of the buy-out ? Yes . Do you still get a 1099-B from your broker ? Yes .
Generally when you get cash - it is considered cash advance . So ATM , casinos , currency-exchange places , buying travelers ' checks , and money transfer/check cashing agencies are the standard suspects in that regard . Funding paypal account may also be considered as cash advance , and in some cases - buying gift cards ( depending on the merchant and type of gift card ) . There are several reasons for this : Cash can not be recovered . Once you got cash - no-one can chase you to take it back . So it is a much higher risk - they may end up absorbing fraud activities if the merchant can prove to have done the due diligence ( which most of them do ) . It is also a higher cost to the companies - they need to pay it to the merchant faster . Usual purchases may end up in the merchant processor 's pocket for significant amounts of time ( I know of some cases where it can be 30 days ) , but not so for cash advances . It also adds to the risk - since even if a charge-back is successful , the money has already left the building and will have to be recovered . Because they can . People who use credit cards for cash advances are usually either desperate or financially illiterate ( and in many cases - both ) . If the companies can earn money for the service - why not ?
Your account is your account , hers is hers . The fact that you file taxes jointly does n't change that . The " I " in IRA stands for Individual . You can not merge them . There are certain conditions when you can withdraw your IRA penalty-free , check <URL> for some pointers .
If the market believes that the company is overstaffed , then management acknowledging the issue and resolving the problem can result in the price going up . It can also mean that external events drove the price up , and the bad news was lost in the other issues of the day . Sometimes layoffs are a sign of the company entering a long downward spiral ; in other cases it is a sign of the beginning recovery . The layoffs can also be viewed as good news if they were n't as big as some experts feared . You have to look at the exact situation to understand why news x impacts the companies price .
Generally speaking , you realize options gains or losses for ( US ) tax purposes when you close out the option position , or when it expires so in your example , if you 're discussing an equity option , you 'd realize the gain or loss next year , assuming you do n't close it out prior to year end . But options tax treatment can get messy fast : The above is not true for options on broad-based indices ( like the S&amp;P 500 ) . So-called " 1256 contracts " on such indices realize gains or losses based on the mark-to-market value at year end , regardless of when they are closed or expire . If you have other positions in options on the same underlying stock , or the stock itself , it 's more complex . For example , if you had sold shares of the stock at a loss in the 30 days prior to selling deep in the money naked puts , you 'd likely trigger the wash sale rule , forcing you to defer the losses you took in the stock . Similarly , if you shorted stock this year while you had gains in the naked put position , you would potentially trigger the " short sale " rule , which would force you to realize gains on the naked put this year , unless you qualify for something called the " short-term hedge exemption " . Still , if you have no other stock or option positions in the underlying during or within 30 days of the establishment of the naked put , and assuming the option is n't assigned , you wo n't realize any gains or losses until the year in which the option is closed or expires .
The Nebraska DMV web site has a <URL> about this . It seems to be fairly simple , and not costly to record a lien and later release it . Just go there with the title and the sales agreement that details the terms , and pay the $ 7 fee .
A non-renounceable offer is a mechanism that many Australian companies use to raise capital/funds for operations . The " non-renouncable " part means you can not sell your right to the capital raising . If it was renouncable then you 'd see the rights trading under CTMR . These sorts of offers are very popular in bull markets but in subdued conditions often cost the company almost as much in administrative/legal fees as the capital raised . Any such offer will dilute your shareholding in the company unless you take up the offer . How do you know how many people will take up the offer ? You do n't until it has closed . You could always call the company secretary to ask . For speculative mining companies , such offers are common and are used to fund exploration efforts . Typically they are offered near the current market price or at a discount to the market price and sometimes have further characteristics such as an attaching option . When stock prices are volatile this dramatically affects how many people take up the offer .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
Does the market automatically assume a rescheduled call means something major , like the auditors are n't signing the financials , is going on ? Yes . ( If so , why ? ) People - including investors - are emotional . And suspicious . And paranoid . Financial discussions tend to make everything sound like a cold , clinical science , and to some degree that is true . But you should never look past something much more simple - people are people . And of course , once all is said and done , acts like a reschedule often do mean something is up . So you 've now got a nice mix of fact and emotion . Does it mean that 95 % of the shares ' holders are insiders who all decided to sell when they learned about whatever is causing the delay in the con call ? No . See Littleadv 's answer .
For your mortgage to be tax deductible there 's no requirement on who the lender should be . The requirement is that the mortgage is secured by your primary residence and is used to buy or improve such . If you can show the documentation for the loan and the actual interest paid , and if you can show that the proceeds were used to buy and/or improve your primary residence - you should be able to claim the interest paid as deduction on Schedule A. See <URL> . Keep in mind , that in order for your interest to be deductible , the receiver ( lender ) must also properly document and declare it on their own tax return . If they evade taxes on the interest , your own deduction may be disallowed . To ensure that your lender does in fact report everything properly , you should ask for form 1098 . Pay attention : if your lender does n't provide you with the form 1098 - your interest goes on a different line of schedule A ( line 11 and not line 10 ) , and details about the lender may be required .
No . Income inside an RRSP is sheltered from income tax until you withdraw it . That is , indeed , the major benefit of RRSPs . Note that you will eventually declare this as income . Consider the following case : - in 2015 , you make $ 1000 in income . - in 2015 , you contribute $ 100 to your RRSPs . You store this in an account that pays interest , rather than investing it in stocks , bonds , or mutual funds . - between 2015 and 2025 , your money makes an additional $ 100 in interest . - in 2025 , you are retired and pull out the entire amount in your RRSP , i.e. $ 200 . Now , between 2015 and 2025 , you did not declare the income from interest . You 'd have had to do this if the money was in a regular bank account ( instead of an RRSP or a TFSA ) . Indeed , your bank would have issued tax forms in that case . But you do n't report income sheltered in an RRSP . This is good , as it increases the power of compounding . In 2015 , you pay tax on only $ 900 rather than the full $ 1000 . In 2025 , you pull out the entire $ 200 . You report all $ 200 as income ( or , actually , as a withdrawal from your RRSP , but it 's the same thing ) . You pay tax on the initial $ 100 investment ( which you did not do in 2015 ) , and you also pay tax on the $ 100 that your investment has made ( and which you are now pulling out ) . The hope is that your income is now lower , as you are retired . So you 'll end up paying less income tax . Plus , your investment has had many years of opportunity to compound , tax-free . TL ; DNR : You do n't pay tax on , or report gains in , an RRSP account . The bank or investment house wo n't even issue tax forms , not until you withdraw the money .
After a commenter ( who seems to have deleted their comment ) mentioned " Qualified Student Loans " that gave me enough of a spring board to eventually find IRS Publication 970 which states : That is reasonably clear .
In the US , the IRS requires employers to withhold taxes on severance pay . This is explained in <URL> : Situation 6 . Severance pay is supplemental wages because it is not a payment for services in the current payroll period but a payment made upon or after termination of employment for an employment relationship that has terminated . Thus , although the payments in this situation are for a fixed determinable amount for 51 weeks , they are not fixed payments for the current payroll period and thus are not regular wages . Because the severance pay is supplemental wages , the usual rules for determining income tax withholding with respect to supplemental wages apply . S can use the aggregate procedure to determine withholding on the payments . Alternatively , if S has withheld income tax on regular wages paid to G in Year 1 , S can use optional flat rate withholding to determine the withholding with respect to the supplemental wage payments in Year 1 and Year 2 . This means the employer may either withhold 25 % flat , or may withhold by the usual method ( similar to your regular withholding ) . As of 2014 , severance pay was ruled to also require <URL> , as your normal wages have withheld from them .
This seems to depend on what kind of corporation you have set up . If you 're set up as a sole proprietor , then the Solo 401k contributions , whether employee or employer , will be deducted from your gross income . Thus they do n't reduce it . If you 're set up as an S-Corp , then the employer contributions , similar to large employer contributions , will be deducted from wages , and wo n't show up in Box 1 on your W-2 , so they would reduce your gross income . ( Note , employee contributions also would go away from Box 1 , but would still be in Box 3 and 5 for FICA/payroll tax purposes ) . This is nicely discussed in detail <URL> . The IRS page that discusses this in more ( harder to understand ) detail is <URL> . Separately , I think a discussion of " Gross Income " is merited , as it has a special definition for sole proprietorships . The IRS defines it in <URL> as : Gross income . Gross income is all income you receive in the form of money , goods , property , and services that is not exempt from tax . If you are married and live with your spouse in a community property state , half of any income defined by state law as community income may be considered yours . For a list of community property states , see Community property states under Married Filing Separately , later . Self-employed persons . If you are self-employed in a business that provides services ( where products are not a factor ) , your gross income from that business is the gross receipts . If you are self-employed in a business involving manufacturing , merchandising , or mining , your gross income from that business is the total sales minus the cost of goods sold . In either case , you must add any income from investments and from incidental or outside operations or sources . So I think that regardless of 401 ( k ) contributions , your gross income is your gross receipts ( if you 're a contractor , it 's probably the total listed on your 1099 ( s ) ) .
With no traditional IRA balance at all , you can deposit to an IRA , then convert it to Roth . In effect , the phaseout does n't impact your intended results , only makes the path you need to follow a bit more cumbersome , another form .
does it still count as a capital gain or loss ? Yes . Is it essentially treated like you sold the stock at the price of the buy-out ? Yes . Do you still get a 1099-B from your broker ? Yes .
First , you mentioned your brother-in-law has " $ 100,000 in stock options ( fully vested ) " . Do you mean his exercise cost would be $ 100,000 , i.e. what he 'd need to pay to buy the shares ? If so , then what might be the estimated value of the shares acquired ? Options having vested does n't necessarily mean they possess value , merely that they may be exercised . Or did you mean the estimated intrinsic value of those options ( estimated value less exercise cost ) is $ 100,000 ? Speaking from my own experience , I 'd like to address just the first part of your question : Have you treated this as you would a serious investment in any other company ? That is , have you or your brother-in-law reviewed the company 's financial statements for the last few years ? Other than hearing from people with a vested interest ( quite literally ! ) to pump up the stock with talk around the office , how do you know the company is : Valuable ? Is the balance sheet healthy ? How many shares &amp; issued options are there ? Not heavily indebted ? Are there significant loans or credit facilities that have been drawn down ? Might there be a potential credit event around the corner ? Profitable ? What does the income statement look like ? Are margins healthy ? Solvent ? Do they realize enough profit as cash to cover current liabilities and then some , or are they profitable on an accounting basis but not generating ample cash ? Growing ? How do revenue , profit , etc. look compared to previous years ? Free from significant conflict-of-interest ? Have any owners / officers disclose material transactions with the company ? Do such arrangements appear within reason , or cause for concern ? BTW , as an option holder only , your brother-in-law 's rights to financial information may be limited . Will the company share these details anyway ? Or , if he exercised at least one option to become a bona-fide shareholder , I believe he 'd have rights to request the financial statements -- but company bylaws vary , and different jurisdictions say different things about what can be restricted . Beyond the financial statements , here are some more things to consider : Is there a shareholder agreement ? Many private companies use these . How would the agreement bind you ? How might it restrict a future share sale or transfer ? Could a sale to another shareholder / employee be vetoed , or just subject to a right of first refusal ? Is there even such a private market ? Has anybody sold their shares to another shareholder ? What were prices for recent deals ? Financial statements may inform your own share valuation , but are shareholders valuing the shares -- through transacting -- above the option 's exercise price ? Beyond the founding owners , are there other stakeholders , e.g. venture capital or venture debt , with special rights ? What are these rights and how might they impact your investment ? Is there any intellectual property ? e.g. are there patents that are valuable but not accounted for ? Is the company involved in any ongoing IP litigation ( or other legal issues ) ? How dependent is this company on one ( or a few ) large customers ? Say , is there one client that constitutes 50 + % of revenue ? What if that client goes away ? How do the financials change ? The worst-case risk you 'd need to accept is zero liquidity and complete loss : If there 's no eventual buy-out or IPO , the shares may ( effectively ) be worthless . Even if there is a private market , willing buyers may quickly dry up if company fortunes decline . Contrast this to public stock markets , where there 's usually an opportunity to witness deterioration , exit at a loss , and preserve some capital . Of course , with great risk may come great reward . Do your own due diligence and convince yourself through a rigorous analysis -- not hopes &amp; dreams -- that the investment might be worth the risk .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
Employers ' match does n't count towards your annual limit ( the $ 17500 this year ) , but it does count towards the overall limit ( $ 51K this year ) . For details on these limits see <URL> .
end question
start question
Do I pay taxes on a gift of mutual funds ?
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
I do n't think the choice of how you report it is going to be up to you . If you won more than $ 600 from a DFS site then you will be receiving a form from them in January , and that form will dictate how you report it . The form will likely be a 1099-MISC which means you will report it as such . The good news is that with a 1099-MISC they should automatically deduct your entry fees , so for example if you paid $ 1000 to play throughout the year , and won $ 5000 that year , your 1099-MISC should be for $ 4000 . If you were to receive a W-2G form ( Gambling winnings ) , typically this would be for only your winnings , so from the previous example it would be for $ 5000 rather than $ 4000 , and you would have to deduct your $ 1000 yourself . The caveat though is you can only deduct your gambling losses if you itemize ( as opposed to taking the standard deduction ) . If you do itemize , a W-2G is probably preferred because not only can you deduct your losses from DFS , but you would also be able to deduct any other losses you had such as lottery tickets , casino play , etc. . Lastly , if certain conditions are met , ( for example if you use PayPal to get your money and you have more than 200 transactions in a year and you had more than 20K in winnings ) , you could receive a 1099-K form . If you receive this form I 'd recommend discussing with an accountant to help you maximize your deductions as it 's very likely they 'll save you much more than their fee .
As a US citizen , you pay your taxes to the US Federal government on worldwide income , regardless of your residency . Check your State laws ( the State where you 're considered resident , vote for example ) about whether you also need to pay state taxes . Also , depending on the country in which you earn the income , you might have to pay taxes there . You 'll have to specifically check the laws of each country to know how much you have to pay , and how to report it . Generally , countries tax income sourced on their soil , but some ( like US ) may also tax income sourced elsewhere if they deem you to be their tax resident . Since you 're a US citizen , tax treaties between the US and the relevant countries are also affecting you . There 's a tax treaty between the US and Canada , for example . You 'll have to check if your tax residency in Norway has been terminated . Generally one would assume that when your period of stay on a temporary visa is over - you 're no longer tax resident . But that 's logic , laws may be different .
In New Jersey , <URL> is considered a temporary disability covered under the state disability benefits . According to the <URL> , you have 30 days from the first day of disability to file a claim : Is there a time limit for filing a disability claim ? Yes . You have 30 days from the first day of disability to file your claim . If your claim is received more than 30 days from the start of the disability , you must show good cause why the claim was not filed timely . You can attach a statement to the claim form ( DS-1 ) explaining why your claim is late . If good cause is not shown , benefits may be reduced or denied . For a normal pregnancy , the first day of disability is generally <URL> .
Yes , in most cases you do pay state income tax , unless of course you are able to somehow legitimately claim residency in one of the few states ( e.g. Texas ) with no state income tax . See : <URL> It does vary by state , however . For example , Massachusetts residents can claim an exclusion when residing overseas . ( <URL> ) . Check your state 's specific guidance .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
Your tax bracket is determined by your total taxable income in a given year , where money drawn from a traditional-style deferred-tax 401k or IRA is taxable income . ( Money drawn from a Roth account was taxed before deposit and is not taxed when withdrawn after the relevant date . ) Your recent salary history has no effect on this , except salary in the same year -- and there is no advantage to be gained by taking a deliberate pay cut for its own sake .
You do n't . Say you deposited $ 5000 . Then you converted $ 4950 to Roth . You declare $ 4950 as the amount converted and you 're done .
You can buy Amazon gift cards and apply them to your account !
Resident Alien is liable for the same taxes as a citizen . Citizenship has nothing to do with taxes .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
My number one piece of advice is to see a tax professional who can guide you through the process , especially if you 're new to the process . Second , keep detailed records . That being said , I found two articles , <URL> and <URL> that give some relevant details that you might find helpful . The articles state that : Many artists end up with a combination of income types : income from regular wages and income from self-employment . Income from wages involves a regular paycheck with all appropriate taxes , social security , and Medicare withheld . Income from self-employment may be in the form of cash , check , or goods , with no withholding of any kind . They provide a breakdown for expenses and deductions based on the type of income you receive . If you get a regular paycheck : If you 've got a gig lasting more than a few weeks , chances are you will get paid regular wages with all taxes withheld . At the end of the year , your employer will issue you a form W-2 . If this regular paycheck is for entertainment-related work ( and not just for waiting tables to keep the rent paid ) , you will deduct related expenses on a Schedule A , under " Unreimbursed Employee business expenses , " or on Form 2106 , which will give you a total to carry to the schedule A . The type of expenses that go here are : Union dues . Apparel : Uniforms , costumes , special shoes ( tap , ballet , character , or anything else not suitable for street wear ) theatrical makeup , and wigs . Cleaning of work-related apparel . Education : Acting , voice , or dance lessons , or other education related to improving or maintaining your performance skills . Photographs , videos , or CDs used for self-promotion and marketing . If you are considered an independent contractor ( I presume this includes the value of goods , based on the first quoted paragraph above ) : Independent contractors get paid by cash or check with no withholding of any kind . This means that you are responsible for all of the Social Security and Medicare normally paid or withheld by your employer ; this is called Self-Employment Tax . In order to take your deductions , you will need to complete a Schedule C , which breaks down expenses into even more detail . In addition to the items listed above , you will probably have items in the following categories : Advertising : Promotional and marketing materials go here , as do any ads you place offering your services . Legal and professional fees : Commissions to agents , attorney fees , and tax preparation fees go here . You can also put union dues here if the membership is not tied to any one job . Auto/transportation expenses : Track your mileage to auditions , keep receipts for the bus or subway , and hang on to plane and train ticket info . Insurance : Any special insurance or bond required because of your work . NOTE : Health insurance is deducted elsewhere , so do n't include that here . Supplies : Shoes , costumes , makeup and office supplies go here . Other : Postage , cell phone if devoted exclusively to work , fax or photocopy fees , classes , reference materials , subscriptions , and anything else related to getting or performing work . If in doubt , keep the receipt , note what it was for , and ask your tax professional or the IRS . Ideally , you should receive a 1099 MISC from whatever employer ( s ) paid you as an independent contractor . Keep in mind that some states have a <URL> , which is A state tax levied against performers whose legal residence is outside of the state where the performance is given . The tax requires that a certain percentage of any gross earnings from the performance be withheld for the state . Seriously , keep all of your receipts , pay stubs , W2 's , 1099 forms , contracts written on the backs of napkins , etc. and go see a tax professional .
Each tax year a local jurisdiction has a time window where homeowner can appeal their assessment . The law dictates the timing of the window , and how to appeal . Assuming that you are still in that window you could appeal . If you are outside that window , your ability is very limited and for all practical purposes is zero . Your local government website , or the copy of your tax bill will tell you how to appeal . The new homeowners would be able to appeal after the next assessment . The sale price of the home is not related to the assessed value . You have to show that the government made a mistake ( number of bedrooms , size of garage , lot size , age of house ... ) or that the other houses that were used by the government to make the assessment were not good matches ( too far away , different school , local environment ... ) . Many governments look at how the prices are changing to determine how to adjust the value next year , with the understanding that in a rapidly changing market the moment just prior to the next assessment will show the greatest mismatch between the direction of prices and assessed value .
It depends on what you mean by " break even . " If you 're trying to end up where you started financially before you started the process of buying the house then you 're asking a lot . You 're essentially asking to get free housing for the 11/2 years . The only " income " you have from this process is the additional equity in the house ( the principal reduction of your mortgage ) . Everything else is an expense : all of the fees you incurred buying the house all fees that you will incur selling the house ( including a 6 % commission possibly , plus closing cost concessions to the buyer in the neighborhood of 3 % , which are common these days ) all interest , taxes , and insurance all improvements all utilities Add up all of those expenses , and subtract the increase in equity , and that 's the difference in your sales prices and your purchase price . It 's a big difference . You may have been able to pull this off 6-7 years ago , but probably not now . A more realistic goal is to at least lose only what it would have cost you to rent a comparable house . ( That 's essentially what you 're doing anyway . )
IRS does n't require 1099 to be filed for payments of less than $ 10 . It is , however , taxable income . The fact that 1099 was n't filed with the IRS does n't affect your tax liabilities . If for example you have a private loan ( say to a family member ) and get paid interest on it , the payer will also probably not file 1099-INT with the IRS . However the interest you 're being paid is taxable income to you and should be reported on Schedule B.
Let me assume that you are going to be on the working holiday visa for a year ( July 2014 to July 2015 ) . For the UK side of things , as what you have described , you may not likely be deemed as non-resident , as you may not have meet the general criteria under the statutory resident test ( SRT ) . As a guideline , you will be non-resident if : you did not spend more than 45 days in the UK and were not resident in the UK in any of the three previous tax years , or you did not spend more than 15 days in the UK and were resident in the UK in one or more of the three previous tax years , or you are working full-time overseas and ; you spend fewer than 91 days in the UK , and you do not work in the UK for three hours or more on more than 30 days . and the guidelines pertain to the corresponding tax year ( 6 April - 7 April ) . You need to check out the <URL> or use <URL> to check your UK residency status . You may be able to benefit from split year treatment , where you are taxed as a non-resident ( see preceding paragraph ) for the period you are working overseas and as a UK resident for the period you are in UK ( i.e. Mar - July 2014 ) . Again , check out <URL> to check if you qualify . If you do n't qualify for split year treatment , your overseas income ( i.e. Japanese income ) will be taxed by HMRC as though it was derived from the UK . However , there is a double taxation agreement signed between Japan and UK , which prevents such taxation from occurring . Hence , if your status with the HMRC is either non-resident or split year treatment , the problem you have stated would not occur , as you would be paying Japanese tax only ( for work done in Japan ) . If you are subjected to UK tax on overseas income ( i.e. accorded resident status ) , you should pay Japanese tax as per normal for non-UK work . Once it 's time to file the UK tax returns , you should claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief for the income that was taxed under Japanese tax rules ( i.e. income from work in Japan ) , so as to avoid double taxation . However , income for work in the UK ( even remote work ) will be subjected to UK tax , irregardless of residency status . I do n't know if Japan tax rules would tax non-Japanese derived sources . tldr : Japanese income should be paid to the National Tax Agency ( Japan ) and UK income to the HMRC . If your UK tax status is such that you have to pay tax on overseas income , claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief as there is a DTC between Japan and UK . N.B. Income denotes remuneration paid for work in that particular country .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
Legally speaking , when you convert that bit-coin onto something else , the Israeli Tax Authority will look into the value of that something else , compare it to the original value of the previous something else you used to buy bit-coins ( USD , in your example ) , and charge you capital gain taxes for the difference . According to the Israeli law you 're supposed to pay taxes when selling ( converting the bit-coin to something else ) , and since you 're not using any formal bank or stock broker which will automatically deduct the taxes , you have to pay the taxes yourself . By not doing so you 're committing a tax fraud . The real question you 're asking is whether they 'll come after you . Well , that depends on the amounts . They might . Pay attention : there 's no statute of limitation for tax fraud in Israel . They may come after you in 50 years from now . Another thing to keep in mind : if you used bit-coins to buy something ( services or products of any kind ) , you probably did n't pay the VAT (  "  ) - which is another case of tax fraud on your behalf . PS : I 'm not a lawyer or accountant , so get a professional advice , but I have been dealing with the Tax Authority in Israel , so I 've got a pretty good idea of what the rules are .
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
In 2008 , the S&amp;P was down 37 % . I love charts that show <URL> , as it helps show that 2008 was n't like the crash of 2000-01 which was more tech-centric . Funds that were more geared towards bonds would have been up as the 10 year Treasury was up 20 % . I understand you have a low risk tolerance . Over the long term , this will cost you . The <URL> from 1928-2011 was 9.23 % , for treasuries , 5.14 % . This difference adds up dramatically over time . These rates double your stock investments every 8 years on average vs nearly 14 years for bonds . See the <URL> site to tinker with start/finish years to understand long term returns .
end question
start question
How does a non-uniform utilization across your credit cards affect you ?
It 's neither . You need to take your total balance and divide by total available credit . Your equation assumes same credit lines , is that the case ? If you keep a balance , push it toward the lower interest card . Pay it off as fast as you can , credit card debt is a killer .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
Chase does not have to verify the identity of John Doe . No new credit account is being established , so the identity check requirements are not required . The account is still owned by Larry alone ; adding an authorized user does not modify the credit agreement between Larry and Chase . Larry is the person taking the risk of adding an authorized signer , not Chase . It is Larry 's concern to verify the identity of John Doe . Every bank can decide at their discretion if/how authorized users are reported to the credit bureau ( s ) . You may submit a request asking them to report or not report , but it is unlikely they will deviate from a standard policy to honor your request .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
If you read the fine print in the Pricing &amp; Terms section of that card , you 'll see : By becoming a Visa Business Card cardmember , you agree that the card is being used only for business purposes and that the card is being issued to a public or private company including a sole proprietor or employees or contractors of an organization . So that card is a Chase-branded Visa card , and should be accepted anywhere other Visa cards are . Credit cards are normally either MasterCard or Visa , although many of them make that rather inconspicuous . The only major exceptions I know of are American Express and Discover . ( And store cards that are only good at one particular store . )
This does not seem , to me , to be a very good indication regarding the risk of the person not paying their balances off . If you do not have a source of income then how are you going to repay your debt . Not to mention there is recource for creditors to garnish wages . That is not possible if you have no income . The risk assessment is about the ability of the creditor to recover any moneys loaned and costs and still make a profit . For example , students have their parents pay them some pocket money to cover for expenses , or a person might be working sporadically on consulting gigs that do not have a fixed monthly or yearly component . Most credit card companies that are willing to issue to college students will allow you to include money from your parents in your income . Credit card companies are looking for customers that will carry a balance and incur fees but be able to pay them . These companies do not make money off of fees and interest that they do not collect . As such , sporatic work increases risk . Is it possible for people to get approved for unsecured credit cards if they do n't hold ( or have not held for some time ) a job at the time of application ? I was able to while I was in college . Though I did have a part time job . If you can show that you have the ability to pay you can usually get a credit card if you do not have bad credit . It will probably be high interest and have alot of fees some of them you will have to pay upfront . But what you probably mean to ask is " Is it possible to get a no cost unsecured credit card with out a reliable source of income ? " The answer to that is : probably not . Even the ones that look like they are free probably have hidden fees .
If you go to a grocery store and purchase retail gift cards along with other products , and you pay with a credit card , your credit card company generally does not know what you spent the money on ; they do n't get an itemized receipt . * If this is the case with your rewards card , then yes , you would get the cashback reward on the gift cards , because all the credit card company knows is that you spent $ 100 at the grocery store ; they do n't know ( or care , really ) that $ 50 of it was for an Olive Garden gift card . This , of course , should be fairly easy to test . Buy the gift card , wait for your statement , and see if they included the purchase when calculating your rewards . * Note : I do n't have an American Express card , but from some quick googling I see that it is possible that American Express does actually receive itemized billing details on your purchases from some merchants . If your grocery store is sending this data to AmEx , it is possible that the gift cards could be excluded from rewards . But again , I suggest you just test it out and see .
The ACA , aka ObamaCare , was specifically designed to be paid for using measures other than a straight income tax increase , which was due to one of Obama 's campaign promises not to raise income taxes on the working class ( sub-250k ) . As such , the 85 % of Americans who are insured through their employers will see little , if any , change in their 1040s for TY2014 . Assuming that your employer will continue to offer healthcare benefits after 2014 ( a bigger if for some ) , the only change in your taxes is that your W-2 will reflect the fact that you are insured , as well as showing the amount of deductible premium payments made on the plan over the year . There may be an additional form sent to you directly by your insurer that will be attached to your return along with your other proof of income/expenses . You should not see any increase in your taxes owed between 2013 and 2014 ( you have likely seen an increase in withholding between 2012 and 2013 , as some of the Bush tax cuts and some payroll tax subsidies were allowed to expire ) . The flip side is that , since you already have employer-provided healthcare , you probably wo n't be able to reduce your tax bill any in 2014 . As the law stands now , tax subsidies for healthcare only apply to plans purchased on the healthcare exchanges by people whose employers do not offer healthcare , or for whom the employer plan is deemed " not affordable " , so you 'll only be considered for tax credits if the individual rate of coverage for the employer plan is more than 9.5 % of your gross income ( the threshold of " affordability " ) . On top of that , there 's an unfortunate loophole in the ACA regarding subsidies called the " family glitch " ; the " affordability " of an employer health plan is based only on the cost of the employee-paid portion of the employee 's own coverage . This is typically the cheapest portion of a family 's health insurance plan ; coverage for spouses and children can drastically inflate that cost , but will not make the employee or family eligible for subsidies on an exchange-provided plan . It 's unlikely the glitch will get fixed before the individual mandate kicks in on March 31 2014 ; making such a surgical change to the law will pretty much require Democratic control of both chambers and the White House , and the earliest opportunity for that is 2015 . However , by executive order , Obama has instructed the IRS not to levy the tax penalty ( in effect waiving the individual mandate ) on uninsured spouses/children in a household if the filing shows that the employer-provided plan would cost in excess of the affordability threshold . So if your employer plan is untenable under the new rules you do n't have to have insurance at all ( but ironically , uninsured families of covered wage-earners were one of the demographics the ACA was supposed to bring into the fold ) . Here 's a short and probably incomplete list of other things that might affect what comes out of your paycheck , whether you figure it on your 1040 or not : Over-the-counter ( OTC ) medicines are no longer accepted as tax-deductible medical expenses , including for FSA , HSA and similar tax-deferred spending . In 2012 , they were accepted as tax-deductible when a " letter of medical necessity " for these items was provided by a doctor or specialist ( you could have gone to your PCP with a shopping list of drugs for your medicine cabinet and get a LMN covering them all ) . This will no longer be the case starting in 2013 , so you can not use your FSA to pay for these , and you may likely reduce your FSA/HSA contributions accordingly , increasing withheld taxes . Persons using an HSA or Archer account for ineligible medical expenses will pay a tax penalty of 10 to 20 % on the amount of the expenditure , so be careful when whipping out that debit card at the pharmacy . The threshold for medical expenses as an itemized deduction is now 10 % of taxable income as of TY2013 , up from 7.5 % , so if you just barely spent enough on medical expenses last year and do n't expect to spend any more this year , you might find your expenses no longer qualify and your taxable income takes a jump . Brand-name prescription drugs now have an additional tax , which is directly paid by Big Pharma , but you can bet they 'll bump up prices across the board to compensate , so make sure your healthcare plan for 2014 includes good prescription copays . " Pay to Play " Tax : Insurers themselves will pay a percentage of all premium revenue , based on their market share . This will create a balancing act ; obviously the insurers will want to pass this on with higher premiums or reduced services , but they have other benchmarks to meet ( or face even more taxation or forced refunds ) that will limit their ability to do this . Medicare Tax Hike : Individuals earning over $ 200k and married couples earning over $ 250k will see a .9 % increase in their employee-paid Medicare taxes withheld from each paycheck . If you earn less than that you will not see any change , however your employer , if they make over
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
If you read a bit on this site you will see warnings about closing accounts . Yes , what you propose to do can work , as long as your timing is right , and you watch your score . You get a minor ding for pulls to your report ( credit inquiries ) , for high utilization , and for low average account age . For your goals , you should only get cards that have no annual fee , and let them accumulate . At some point , you will have enough available credit that any balance wont cause high utilization , and canceling a card wont kill your average age .
The number to hold depends on your usage and your goals . However the most important aspect of credit cards is the effect it has on your credit score . Having a good credit score can be useful later when making large purchases like a car or house . Things to consider about credit cards : Paying the minimum monthly balance . Late payments affect your score negatively . Excessive credit . High unused credit limits can flag you as a high risk . Also too many credit cards with low limits can also create lots of unused credit . ( Another user mentioned getting free tupperware with every card they got ) . Merchant support . Not all merchants support all the common cards . e.g. . You may want 1 Visa , 1 Mastercard . Reward systems . Some cards have a maximum limit on rewards given based on spending . At that point you may switch to another card . For most people who have never had a credit card 1 credit card is usually enough initially since the expenses should not exceed income ( plus this reduces the temptation to get into lots of debt ) . The best way to find out if you are okay is to check your credit score and do it regularly . In Canada there are several ways to get this information and some of it free like <URL> .
I value my home at slightly below ( say , less 8-10 % ) of comparable , recent sales in my neighborhood . I do this for a couple of reasons : I would n't expect to get the best price at any peak . Wishful thinking . And , Actually realizing any money from a sale would involve real estate commissions , moving fees , legal fees , etc. . I never guess . If I can not find a comparable sale , I leave the home value as-is until there is data .
One data point : I screwed up and simply missed one $ 25 bill for one month , I paid it the next month . I took about a 50 point hit from it .
For whatever reason , that card issuer is n't reporting the card or reporting it correctly . Yes , a BOA Visa is a major credit card .
I feel the same way too ! With two kids , I feel like I am spending what it would cost to run a small country just on clothes , shoes , jackets , replacing everything as it is grown out of ! A few things I do : I shop in affordable places and check out sales , and look for the cutest things I can find there in a reasonable price range . If you are n't browsing in the $ 60 baby dresses , you are n't tempted by them . I do n't go looking at $ 60 shirts for my son , he 's five and he does n't need a $ 60 shirt . I also really only shop for him two or three times a year for clothing ... back to school and early spring are the big ones . For fall I got him five pairs of jeans , maybe 8 tops , new socks , etc. . I 'll add in a couple of heavier sweatshirts , etc as I go , but I really do n't browse for him ... it 's too easy to find something to buy ! I look for inexpensive lines for the things that do n't really matter ... bright T 's for my son for summer that just get dirty and spilled on , sleepers , socks , pj 's , etc. . Joe Fresh , Walmart , Old Navy , Costco . Then I choose a few things that I know I want brand name or more stylish options for , and find ways to buy them more cheaply . These might be things like logo 'd fleece tops , trendy jackets , things where the style is actually noticed . I buy jeans at Old Navy for my son when they are on sale , I buy Gusti/Genevieve LaPierre snowsuits at Sears when they are 40 % off in Sept/Oct . The Childrens ' Place has good quality , stylish clothing for kids and if you watch , they always have deals on their jeans or tops ... then I stock up . And for younger kids , Old Navy and The Children 's Place jeans have adjustable waistbands . I 've already unrolled cuffs and let out the waist in my son 's back to school jeans . I have friends who are starting to take in bags of too-small clothing to consignment shops ... if they come away with $ 100 , it 's still $ 100 ! For preteen and teen kids who want certain brands , etc , I think it is very reasonable to say " we will pay x for each pair of jeans , or x for winter boots . If you want to throw in some babysitting/birthday money and go buy something more expensive , you are welcome to do so ! " That way , you are still paying for basics , but they can feel like they are n't stuck wearing things they do n't like . Tell them ... you can buy 5 tops at $ x each for back to school , or 10 tops at $ x. And lastly , and most sadly of all : buy less . . and stop shopping . There , I said it out loud . I try to be careful of what I buy , but I still find things I bought that were never worn . Now I keep a return basket in laundry/mudroom ... if I do n't love it , if it seems impractical now that I got it home , if I wanted it just in case item # 1 did n't work ... it goes in the basket . And I return them . I suck it up , I take it with me and go get my money back . Mistakes can be fixed if the items have n't been worn or washed .
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
I know this can be confusing because you tend to think of money being worth the face value . So let 's eliminate that for the sake of an example that will be easier to understand . Let 's say your friend loaned you rock worth $ 10 today . He expects you to pay him back an identical rock whenever you can . Now let 's also assume that historically the price of rocks tends to go down every year . At some point you will need to buy a rock to pay your friend back . Because they keep getting cheaper , it costs less to buy the payback rock the longer you wait . Replace a dollar with a rock in the example and you have your answer . This is known as the time value of money . In reality , this is priced into the loan ( via the interest rate ) because the lender very much understands the math going on here . Also , it is more complicated because the longer you delay payment the more interest you pay ( pebbles if you will ) so it does n't usually work to your advantage unless they underpriced the loan 's interest rate .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
You ask if Tesla being a car company should feel a pressure to split their stock because their share price is much higher than the other car companies . But is Tesla a car company ? It was founded by Elon Musk who founded PayPal and SpaceX . He sees him self as the next generation of entrepreneurs that came after Jobs and Gates . So he compares Tesla ( $ 142 ) companies to Google ( $ 856 ) , Amazon ( $ 284 ) and eBay ( $ 52 ) . But even if you see Tesla as a car company , Musk sees it more like Audi ( $ 828 ) or BMW ( $ 100 ) then he does Ford ( $ 16.30 ) just because the base price of their models ( $ 80,000 + ) is much greater than Ford or GM . The theory is that keeping the share price in a lower range helps investors . But since <URL> is that really a concern ? Therefore most small investors get the company though a mutual fund .
end question
start question
5 credit accounts , from $ 1750 to $ 4000 , all above 90 % utilization . Better to pay $ 500 on all 5 , or pay one off completely for credit score ?
First , before we talk about anything having to do with the credit score , we need the disclaimer that the exact credit score formulas are proprietary secrets that have not been revealed . Therefore , all we have to go on are broad generalities that FICO has given us . That having been said , the credit card debt utilization portion of your score generally has at least two components : an overall utilization , and a per-card utilization . Your overall utilization is taken by adding up all your credit card debt and all your credit limits and dividing . Using your numbers above , you are sitting at about 95 % . The per-card utilization is the individual utilization of each card . Your five cards range in utilization from 69 % to 100 % . Paying one card over another has no affect on your overall utilization , but obviously will change the per-card utilization of the one you pay first . So , to your question : Is it better on the credit score to have one low-util card and one high-util card , or to have two medium-util cards ? I have n't read anything that definitively answers this question . Here is my advice to you : The big problem you have is the debt , not the credit score . Your credit card debt should be treated like an emergency that needs to be taken care of as quickly as you possibly can . Instead of trying to optimize your credit score , you should be trying to minimize the number of days until all of your credit cards are completely paid off . The credit score will take care of itself once you get your financial situation back on track . <URL> about the order in which one should pay off their debts , but the fact of the matter is that the order is not as significant as the intensity at which you pay them all off . Dedicate yourself to getting rid of the debts as fast as possible , and it wo n't matter much which order they get paid off in . Finally , to answer your question , I recommend that you <URL> instead of trying to pay them off evenly . Not because it will optimize your credit score , but because it will help you focus your debt-reduction energy as you work on resolving your debt emergency . Fortunately , the <URL> , so once you pay all of these off , the utilization portion of your score will get better immediately , and the path you took to get there will be irrelevant . After the credit cards are completely paid off , and you have resolved never to spend money that you do n't have again , it is time to work on the student loans ...
I do n't think it really matters , my understanding is that as a sole trader there is no distinction between your personal and business tax affairs . The distinction between your personal and business account is mainly for your own personal benefit to make it easier to differentiate between " wages " and retained earnings . If you want to maintain this distinction with regard to tax then you need to somehow differentiate between tax paid on your " wage " and tax paid on retained earnings . You could then either make two payments , or pay from either and transfer the difference from the other . Either way , it 's just a matter of perspective rather than something with a physical difference .
Did you read your own question out loud ? Holy cow . Two years to pay off $ 1700 !? Get a part time job , sell some stuff on eBay , and cut your lifestyle . You can be done with this in two months . Despite the math , you 'd be better off to cut your 401 ( k ) contributions to zero until the balances are paid off . That sense of loss of the 9 % income will motivate you to get this nonsense cleaned up , and will probably preclude you from borrowing money at 17.9 % again . The course of action you are proposing is not the smartest . In two years , you have a decent chance of being laid off or changing jobs . Once that happens your 401 ( k ) loan is due in 60 days , or it is considered a withdrawal . Tack on another 40 % to your loan balance . You also have to consider the behavior aspect of your plan . If you solve this problem in a painless way will you likely borrow again ? Yep . So now you will have a 401 ( k ) loan for $ 1700 and probably your credit cards will have a similar balance to what they are today . Still , it was good of you to ask .
The short answer is that the longterm impact to your credit score is negligible . The long answer is that if you open 4 or 5 new cards in a month your score will decrease from the credit inquiries and from a decrease in your average age of accounts . The damage really is pretty minor 20-30 points off your FICO on the high end ( the more old accounts you have the smaller the effect is ) and temporary after a year you will be close to your original score . The only time I would worry about the effects opening a bunch of accounts is if you are planning on getting a mortgage in the next year even then a couple of cards probably wo n't hurt unless you are within a couple months of when you get the mortgage . For reference I had 7 or 8 new accounts within the past year and my FICO was still good enough to get the best rate on my mortgage . This is all based on my own personal experience , I have opened 5-15 new cards a year for bonuses and 0 % offers for the past 5 years or so and my FICO score varies between 740 and 770 .
Generally , I would say that you should pay it off if you have the money available . Why pay interest if you have the money ? That is , of course , if your money can earn you more than the interest you pay ( which can happen if you got a very low APR for your car loan , but then you probably have excellent credit already and should n't care about the history of the loan on your report ) . Re the 7 years vs 2 years - to the best of my knowledge its not true , it will stay 7 years even if its closed during the first year .
Yes pension income is taxed at your marginal rate , and you may be able to claim a $ 2,000 pension deduction . In addition pension income can be split with a spouse or common law partner by electing so on your tax return . When you begin to receive pension income from work the employers pension administrator will have you fill out a TD1 Form Federal and Provincial Form which will tell them how much tax to deduct at source . You can also elect to increase the amount of taxes deducted at source . If the taxes deducted at source are insufficient or if you have other income where source deductions have not been withheld then you may owe taxes on your tax return . If you owe over $ 3,000 in taxes when you file your return you will be requested to pay next years taxes owing in instalments . You can request the government to withhold Taxes on your Canada CPP benefits too .
No . Borrowing is not allowed , but if you take a withdrawal , you have 60 days to deposit into another IRA account . This effectively creates a 60 day loan . Not what you 're really looking for . If you take this withdrawal and re-deposit to new account within 60 days , no problem . If not , you owe tax on the untaxed amount as well as a 10 % penalty . This comes from IRS ' Publication 590 , I have the document memorized by substance , not page number .
There 's a different reason to have more than one credit card . ( If you have three , that 's probably enough . ) Someone can get access to your account number , and start making fraudulent charges . When you report this to the issuer , they cancel your account to prevent further charges . They send you a new one , but there 's a delay . This happened to not one , but two of our credit cards at the same time . Thank goodness we had a third one that we could use in the meantime . If we had had just one card to use , we 'd be cash only until the new cards arrived , which would have been a big inconvenience because we were used to using our card for everything . ( It was inconvenience enough tracking down all of the automatic bill payments we had on the cards that were compromised . )
My answer at <URL> offers a bit of detail , but the bottom line is that Utilization is aggregate . My $ 10,000 limit card is fine to push to $ 8K each month only because my other lines add up to quite a bit , so utilization is 10 % or so . I recommend you look at <URL> , they offer a score that tracks the scores you see , and it 's updated weekly . A good tool , at no cost .
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
I 've been doing this for years , and have n't had a problem ( yet ) . Since I pay of the entire balance every month , this ensures that I never have to pay interest because I forgot to send in a payment . As MoneyCone said , it does require discipline on your part to check your statement each month , prior to the autopay . Remember , that even with autopay , you can override it for particular statements . So if there is a fraudulent charge , you can dispute it with the credit card company , and manually pay the card whatever amount you want . The one thing I do worry about is the credit card making an error and withdrawing more than they should . This is why I have the autopay tied to my local credit union account , which I only keep enough to pay the credit card bills and the occasional paper check , limiting the damage . Most of my money are in an ING account , where I use online billpay to take care of the rest of my expenses .
Not simply by applying for more cards , but rather by being approved for credit cards . In fact , too many declined credit applications can hurt your credit score . I 'm not certain of the details , but some activity is also necessary . Not using your lines of credit can be seen as a detrimental factor . I assume they are trying to guard against being gamed . So , having a bunch of unused lines of credit is not necessarily good . Finally , having too many open lines of credit ( for some definition of " too many " ) can also be a bad thing , though I 'm not sure if this effects your credit score or is simply used as a reason by some issuers to decline your application .
I rolled mine over from the company I was at into my own brokerage house . You ca n't roll them into a Roth IRA , so I needed to setup a traditional IRA . There is paperwork your old jobs can provide you . I had to put in some mailing addresses , some account numbers and turn them in . My broker received it , I chose what I wanted to invest it in and that was that . No tax penalty or early withdrawal penalty . The key to avoiding penalties is to have your past employers send the money directly to another retirement fund , not send a check to you .
I did this , graduated , and did not explode . Based on this fact , I think you can do it too . There are no gotchas I am aware of .
Why not just get another credit card and transfer the balance ? Many of them will give you special perks like x months of no interest for doing so . Also , once you call to actually cancel the card you will see for sure whether they really have any power to negotiate rates . From their perspective 15 % APR is more than 0 % APR which is what they 'd get if they lose your business .
First , before we talk about anything having to do with the credit score , we need the disclaimer that the exact credit score formulas are proprietary secrets that have not been revealed . Therefore , all we have to go on are broad generalities that FICO has given us . That having been said , the credit card debt utilization portion of your score generally has at least two components : an overall utilization , and a per-card utilization . Your overall utilization is taken by adding up all your credit card debt and all your credit limits and dividing . Using your numbers above , you are sitting at about 95 % . The per-card utilization is the individual utilization of each card . Your five cards range in utilization from 69 % to 100 % . Paying one card over another has no affect on your overall utilization , but obviously will change the per-card utilization of the one you pay first . So , to your question : Is it better on the credit score to have one low-util card and one high-util card , or to have two medium-util cards ? I have n't read anything that definitively answers this question . Here is my advice to you : The big problem you have is the debt , not the credit score . Your credit card debt should be treated like an emergency that needs to be taken care of as quickly as you possibly can . Instead of trying to optimize your credit score , you should be trying to minimize the number of days until all of your credit cards are completely paid off . The credit score will take care of itself once you get your financial situation back on track . <URL> about the order in which one should pay off their debts , but the fact of the matter is that the order is not as significant as the intensity at which you pay them all off . Dedicate yourself to getting rid of the debts as fast as possible , and it wo n't matter much which order they get paid off in . Finally , to answer your question , I recommend that you <URL> instead of trying to pay them off evenly . Not because it will optimize your credit score , but because it will help you focus your debt-reduction energy as you work on resolving your debt emergency . Fortunately , the <URL> , so once you pay all of these off , the utilization portion of your score will get better immediately , and the path you took to get there will be irrelevant . After the credit cards are completely paid off , and you have resolved never to spend money that you do n't have again , it is time to work on the student loans ...
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
The number that really matters in this situation is your age of your longest account . Opening a new account is a good idea , but closing an old one may have an impact on your score if you have no other active accounts . If you have another card , or an overdraft line of credit or a car loan that is 4 or 5 years old , you wo n't see a big impact . I 'd suggest calling the card company and asking them to waive the fee . They usually will . In the meantime , I would recommending having one card from each of the major networks . ( MC , Visa , Discover , Amex ) so you do n't run into this again . Just do n't open them all at once .
end question
start question
How do I clean up my Memorized Payees in Quicken 2015 ?
Look at your list of memorized payees by going to Find somebody who you know you have n't paid in a really long time , and remember them . Close out of that window to return to the main window . Click In the Preferences Window in the tree pane click Enter a value in textbox . Click Exit Quicken , and open it up again . When Quicken loads up again , go back into and see if the Payee you have n't used in a long time is still there ; the list should be considerably shorter .
Let me assume that you are going to be on the working holiday visa for a year ( July 2014 to July 2015 ) . For the UK side of things , as what you have described , you may not likely be deemed as non-resident , as you may not have meet the general criteria under the statutory resident test ( SRT ) . As a guideline , you will be non-resident if : you did not spend more than 45 days in the UK and were not resident in the UK in any of the three previous tax years , or you did not spend more than 15 days in the UK and were resident in the UK in one or more of the three previous tax years , or you are working full-time overseas and ; you spend fewer than 91 days in the UK , and you do not work in the UK for three hours or more on more than 30 days . and the guidelines pertain to the corresponding tax year ( 6 April - 7 April ) . You need to check out the <URL> or use <URL> to check your UK residency status . You may be able to benefit from split year treatment , where you are taxed as a non-resident ( see preceding paragraph ) for the period you are working overseas and as a UK resident for the period you are in UK ( i.e. Mar - July 2014 ) . Again , check out <URL> to check if you qualify . If you do n't qualify for split year treatment , your overseas income ( i.e. Japanese income ) will be taxed by HMRC as though it was derived from the UK . However , there is a double taxation agreement signed between Japan and UK , which prevents such taxation from occurring . Hence , if your status with the HMRC is either non-resident or split year treatment , the problem you have stated would not occur , as you would be paying Japanese tax only ( for work done in Japan ) . If you are subjected to UK tax on overseas income ( i.e. accorded resident status ) , you should pay Japanese tax as per normal for non-UK work . Once it 's time to file the UK tax returns , you should claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief for the income that was taxed under Japanese tax rules ( i.e. income from work in Japan ) , so as to avoid double taxation . However , income for work in the UK ( even remote work ) will be subjected to UK tax , irregardless of residency status . I do n't know if Japan tax rules would tax non-Japanese derived sources . tldr : Japanese income should be paid to the National Tax Agency ( Japan ) and UK income to the HMRC . If your UK tax status is such that you have to pay tax on overseas income , claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief as there is a DTC between Japan and UK . N.B. Income denotes remuneration paid for work in that particular country .
Freezing your credit is as simple as contacting each of the credit bureaus via their websites and asking for a freeze . Remember , do n't get monitoring or a credit alert , get a credit freeze . Depending on the state you live in , there will be a charge to freeze and unfreeze your credit . You will need to unfreeze your credit before you apply for a loan or anything else that somebody would access your credit report for . While you can possibly spend up to $ 10 per incident , this is probably worth it . You will be given a secret key that you can use to unfreeze your credit , so store that in a safe place so you do n't forget . If you have a police report from a case of identity theft , you can do the freezing and unfreezing for free . <URL>
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
You are right about the 3 % . It is itemized out . They charge you a foreign currency conversion fee which is about 3 % . So for example , you are in Europe and purchase something for 100 Euros which is $ 128.32 in today 's rate , your statement should show : - 1 . ) Whatever you purchased - $ 128.32 2 . ) Foreign Currency conversion fee - $ 3.85 ( 3 % of $ 128.32 ) Please note : - I have credit cards with 4 different banks in the United States , and they all do the same thing ( I am not sure if each and every bank does it this way ) . Cheers
An unmarried person with a total U.S.-sourced earned income under $ 37,000 during the year 2016 is likely to owe : Somewhat less than 15 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " federal income taxes " , plus : 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : If they are an independent contractor another 7.65 % of their U.S.-sourced earned income as the " employer share " of their " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " , plus : Any state and local income taxes ( which do not exist in Washington State ) , plus : If they are working as a licensed business any " unemployment insurance premiums " and " workers compensation premiums ** . Each of these can be 0.5 % - 4 % of pay ( below certain caps ) , depending on the state , business , and industry . Plus If they are working as a licensed business any state and local " business and occupation taxes " ( a.k.a. " B&amp;O taxes " ) . Washington State has a B&amp;O tax rate slightly below 4 % of gross revenue , for many kinds of businesses . If the original poster is not an " independent contractor " , and is not " billing corp-to-corp " then : Their employer will pay the B&amp;O taxes , unemployment insurance premiums , workers compensation premiums , and the " employer share " of the " Social Security taxes " and " Medicare taxes " . The original poster can fill out their " W-4 form " in such a way that their employer will withhold 15 % of their pay for federal income taxes . ( One way to do this is to claim 99 dependents , and ask to have " additional withholding " that happens to be 15 % of the amount of each pay period 's pay . ) Sometime between January 1 , 2017 and April 15 , 2017 , the original poster can download U.S. federal income tax forms , fill them out , and submit them to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to claim a refund . In summary : The original poster 's net pay is likely to be 22.65 % less than their stated pay ( if they are working for business that takes care of tax withholding , and are not an " independent contractor " ) An " independent contractor " or someone billing " corp-to-corp " ( as a business of their own ) with a similarly modest income is likely to have a net pay 33 % to 40 % less than their stated pay . These calculations do not consider the effects of other deductions , such as for medical insurance , health savings accounts , dependent care , and retirement savings accounts . These calculations do not consider the effects of taxes by the original poster 's home country . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
After more research , I think I 've determined the solution . My actual , 30-page credit report from Experian has a section for " Potentially Negative Items or Items for Further Review " . There is one account in this section -- the one that had a late payment several years ago . This account was also closed 0.5 years before I originally asked this question . So the actual credit report is accurate . The problem is how the Experian website interprets and summarizes the report : when an account with negative information closes ( or maybe even just changes ) , they present it as if that 's the date that the negative information occurred .
<URL> Mr D receives a dividend of # 100 cash from his Limited Company . The way tax credits work means that this actually represents only 90 % of the tax charge so to work out the taxable income it needs to be ' grossed up ' to 100 % . You do this by taking the 100 , dividing it by 90 then multiplying it by 100 , giving # 111.11 . For the purposes of a tax return this is the dividend income . Next you need to think about how much tax should be paid . This depends on which tax bracket you fall into : Basic rate tax payers pay 0 % on dividends Dividend income = # 111.11 Incurring tax of : Tax charge at 10 % = # 11.11 Less 10 % tax credit = - # 11.11 Tax due = # 0 So as I said this results in income tax of 0 % . Though on your tax return you have to go through all those steps . As the author puts it , just the vagaries of ministers and to confuse mere mortals . Primarily the credit is because you have already paid corporation tax on the income , so a bit of relief and not to tax you twice .
Congratulations on deciding to save for retirement . Since you cite Dave Ramsey as the source of your 15 % number , what does he have to say about where to invest the money ? If you want to have instantaneous penalty-free access to your retirement money , all you need to do is set up one or more ordinary accounts that you think of as your retirement money . Just be careful not to put the money into CDs since Federal law requires a penalty of three months interest if you cash in the CD before its maturity date ( penalty ! ) or put the money into those pesky mutual funds that charge a redemption fee ( penalty ! ) if you take the money out within x months of investing it where x can be anywhere from 3 to 24 or more . In Federal tax law ( and in most state tax laws as well ) a retirement account has special privileges accorded to it in that the interest , dividends , capital gains , etc earned on the money in your retirement account are not taxed in the year earned ( as they would be in a non-retirement account ) , but the tax is either deferred till you withdraw money from the account ( Traditional IRAs , 401ks etc ) or is waived completely ( Roth IRAs , Roth 401ks etc ) . In return for this special treatment , penalties are imposed ( in addition to tax ) if you withdraw money from your retirement account before age 59.5 which presumably is on the distant horizon for you . ( There are some exceptions ( including first-time home buying and extraordinary medical expenses ) to this rule that I wo n't bother going into ) . But You are not required to invest your retirement money into such a specially privileged retirement account . It is perfectly legal to keep your retirement money in an ordinary savings account if you wish , and pay taxes on the interest each year . You can invest your retirement money into municipal bonds whose interest is free of Federal tax ( and usually free of state tax as well if the municipality is located in your state of residence ) if you like . You can keep your retirement money in a sock under your mattress if you like , or buy a collectible item ( e.g. a painting ) with it ( this is not permitted in an IRA ) , etc. . In short , if you are concerned about the penalties imposed by retirement accounts on early withdrawals , forgo the benefits of these accounts and put your retirement money elsewhere where there is no penalty for instant access . If you use a money management program such as Mint or Quicken , all you need to do is name one or more accounts or a portfolio as MyRetirementMoney and voila , it is done . But those accounts/portfolios do n't have to be retirement accounts in the sense of tax law ; they can be anything at all .
A couple ideas : Use excel - it has an IRR ( internal rate of return ) that can handle a table of inputs as you describe , along with dates deposited to give you a precise number . Go simple - track total deposits over the year , assume half of that was present in January . So , for example , your account started the year with $ 10k , ended with $ 15k , but you deposited $ 4k over the year . It should be clear the return ( gain ) is $ 1k , right ? But it 's not 10 % , as you added during the year . I 'd divide $ 1k / $ 12k for an 8.3 % return . Not knowing how your deposits were structured , the true number lies between the 10 % and 6.7 % as extremes . You 'll find as you get older and have a higher balance , this fast method gaining accuracy , as your deposits are a tinier fraction of your account and likely spread out pretty smoothly over the year anyway .
There are certain companies that will let you pay a flat fee per month instead of billing you for consumption . You should call your providers and ask them if they have such an option available ; this way budgeting will be easy . :)
From the IRS 's <URL> : Recordkeeping Tip Once you have agreed to barter transactions with a vendor or customer , you must enter the transaction accurately in your accounting and tax records . Whether you maintain your books and records manually or use one of the many accounting and tax software packages on the market today , you need to keep and record some basic information about your barter transactions . Clearly mark or file all barter income and expense documents as " bartering , " and retain all original source documents pertaining to your barter transactions : Sales receipts and invoices Barter exchange statements and Forms 1099-B , Proceeds From Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions Bartering Products or Services The most important barter tax accounting concept is that the IRS treats bartering as income received , whether you use accrual-basis or cash-basis accounting .
Look at the previous owner and the maintenance records they have for the car . Someone who has regularly serviced the car ( and I mean more than just an oil change , preferably maintenance history from a reputable garage or main dealer [ 1 ] ) and has n't skimped on it . Also , keep in mind that the newer the car , the more electronic components they have that can go expensively wrong , especially if you fall prey to a garage whose method for debugging electronics is to throw components at the car for a grand a pop . I tend to look for the following ( but I am a bit " special " when it comes to buying vehicles ) : Clean vehicle . Someone who ca n't even be bothered to chuck out ten days ' worth of burger wrappers and empty drinks cans before showing a car to a prospective buyer obviously cares so much about the car that they take good care of it , right . Matched , name brand tires . That 's a bit of an odd one but a good indicator that someone 's willing to spend money on their car . If you see a car with four different tires on , three of them made in North Korea , that 's not a good sign Check the colour of the brake fluid - the darker it is , the older it is . Most people will change the oil regularly but forget about the brake fluid , even though that should be changed every year or two , too . It 's a good indicator of how thoroughly the vehicle has been serviced . Maintenance receipts . You want someone who keeps the receipts to show what work has been done . The stamp in the service book is n't worth that much unless you can go see the garage who did the work . Plus , stamps have appeared in service books after the right person suddenly found themselves in possession of a Benjamin . Before you go see a vehicle , go find the forum for it and have a look for the sort of problems people tend to encounter with the vehicles . Google for problem with this particular model , find out if there are any recalls etc. . Make sure you ask the seller specific questions about these issues and if you like the vehicle but get " dunno " as the regular answer , get someone to check it out . Find out who the car nut at work is ( you know , the guy who drives odd cars , has more T-shirt with oil stains than without them and tends to have permanent ingrained oil residue under their fingernails ) and ask him nicely if he 'd be willing to help you check out a car . Most of us will if we 've got the time , and most of us have made pretty much every purchase mistake in the book . More than once , but we should be able to recognise it and stop you from falling into the same trap . Once you found something you like , get it checked out by a mechanic , preferably by a specialist for the make/model or at least a main dealer . Get them to provide you with a list of work the vehicle needs and have them explain to you the importance of each line item . If the vehicle requires work - especially when the seller kind of forgot/didn ' t realise certain work was needed - go back and haggle or walk away . Do n't , ever , believe what a used car salesweasel tells you . If they tell you it 's afternoon , get a second independent opinion . Yes , I know there are a few good helpful ones out there but there are also a bunch of rip-off artists out there and IMHO they are the majority as that seems to be the way that most dealerships load the dice . If you are searching for a car as a transportation appliance ( as opposed to someone like me who tends to seek out a vehicle because I want a specific model ) , be prepared to walk away from a vehicle . Do n't get emotionally attached to it because it 's the correct colour and thus overlook the hole in the floor that would make Fred Flintstone proud . Work out what the vehicle is worth , have a look at the work it needs and if the two numbers do n't look good together , go walk . And do n't forget the golden rules of car buying : Never buy the first one you see . If you are looking for a specific model , make sure you check out several so you get a feel if one of them is a dog . Buy the best condition car you can afford within your budget . That 's condition , not mileage or extras . Extras are mostly worth zilch anyway , and I 'd rather have a car with 100k on it that 's maintained perfectly than one with 25k on the clock that 's never had brake fluid or an oil change . [ 1 ] Unfortunately that might not be one and the same place
I found a way to do this , but it 's slightly backwards . Quicken does not allow you to make a graph of just your income , probably because that would be a fairly boring graph for most people . But it does allow you to do a graph of your expenses . Doing so , while including income categories , will produce the graph I want , but with negative numbers ( savings is negative spending ) . Go to Reports - > Reports and Graph Center in the main menu . In the Quicken Standard Reports section , go to Spending by Category Click the Customize button . On the Customize Spending by Category window , on the Categories tab , add all Income and Expense categories ( but no Bank categories ) . Click Show Graph . Set the Column to Month . This will switch it from a pie chart to a bar graph This will show a bar graph of overall spending , counting income as Negative Spending . So , having negative bars is good in this case .
The best practices for this sort of thing : Do n't keep too much money and valuable jewerly around . You should have no more than a couple of thousand dollars lying about . Keep the exterior of your house clean and well-lit . Gates and doors , even if not locked , should be in good repair and consistently closed . Secure stuff like bikes , lawnmowers , etc in a place not visible from the outside of the street , preferably in a shed . Have decent locks and keep accessible windows closed and locked when you 're not home . Get a dog . In terms of electronics and such , you 're always at risk for some crackhead busting in your door and grabbing your iPod or whatever . Thieves do n't really care about clothes ... they want items quickly converted to cash : small electronics with resale value , cash , jewelry . Keeping things locked and having a dog are probably the best deterrents for that scenario . More professional/organized burglars who rob houses during the day stake out a neighborhood and look for places where their presence wo n't be noticed . If things are clean and consistent , your neighbors , police patrol , mailman , etc are more likely to notice something awry and call the police . That 's a risk factor for the " pro " thief , who will more likely look for a softer target . If you live in an area where there has been a burglary spree or you are really worried about this , get a basic , centrally monitored alarm system . If you 're not living a flashy lifestyle and are deliberately thinking about ways to look like you do n't have anything , it is money well spent . If you are living a flashy lifestyle , unwanted attention comes with the territory . In any case , feeling safe at home is something you need to be able to do .
Unused checks can be discarded as soon as you no longer need them . No need to return them to the bank , just tear/shred and dispose of as paper .
I would say a diversified conservative balanced fund ( perhaps 80 % bonds , the rest equities ) . This historically keeps up with inflation , though in the short term it can definitely fluctuate downward some years . The more diversification the better , say into international stocks and other major asset classes . The 80/20 average historical annual return is 6.7 % nominal ( before inflation ) , which is higher than historical inflation : <URL> Bonds alone would generally be less reliable than bonds plus 10-20 % in stocks . You may be able to go as much as 90 % bonds if the goal is absolute minimum risk . I 've read in more than one place that 100 % bonds averages lower returns with more risk than 90/10 , so 100 % bonds would be an inferior option historically , compared to diversifying just a bit into equities . You could argue that TIPS ( or other inflation-indexed bonds ) are the guaranteed way to beat inflation with no additional risk . I would personally feel more comfortable with a balanced portfolio diversified across thousands of stocks and bonds around the world : TIPS are country-specific , and however remote the chances , there are probably risk factors unique to US government securities while I do n't subscribe to conspiracy theories about the consumer price index ( CPI ) , it is in some ways arbitrary and its definition of inflation may not line up with your actual expenses ; a diversified portfolio avoids " inflation definition risk " a bit more perhaps because an 80/20 portfolio does a little better than inflation historically , maybe you have some more margin for error You can always keep some money in cash or near-cash ( very short-term bonds ) , in addition to the balanced portfolio , to lower risk and returns down to the desired point . Commodities and metals often come up when talking about inflation risk ; the problem is that these are so volatile , you 'll have big timing problems - if you buy at a wrong ( too high ) time you could wait decades to get your principal back . So I do n't think these make sense for the goal you described . See also <URL>
I think about as close as you 're going to get is to use a personal PayPal account , and set up a reminder to yourself to log in and send the money . ( Because , as you said , setting up a recurring payment is a business account thing . ) From <URL> : Sending money -- Personal payments : It 's free within the U.S. to send money to family and friends when you use only your PayPal balance or bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . ... Receiving money -- Personal payments : It 's free to receive money from friends or family in the U.S. when they send the money from the PayPal website using only their PayPal balance or their bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . You can automate the reminder to yourself with any of the gazillion task managers out there : Google Calendar , MS Outlook , Todoist , Remember the Milk , etc. .
In the US , you just file an amended return . TurboTax will even do it ( probably other tax software will too ) . See <URL> for details . If you discover an error after your return has been mailed , you may need to amend your return . The service center may correct errors in math on a return and may accept returns with certain forms or schedules left out . In these instances , do not amend your return ! However , do file an amended return if your filing status , your income , your deductions or credits are incorrect
Any ETF has expenses , including fees , and those are taken out of the assets of the fund as spelled out in the prospectus . Typically a fund has dividend income from its holdings , and it deducts the expenses from the that income , and only the net dividend is passed through to the ETF holder . In the case of QQQ , it certainly will have dividend income as it approximates a large stock index . The prospectus shows that it will adjust daily the reported Net Asset Value ( NAV ) to reflect accrued expenses , and the cash to pay them will come from the dividend cash . ( If the dividend does not cover the expenses , the NAV will decline away from the modeled index . ) Note that the NAV is not the ETF price found on the exchange , but is the underlying value . The price tends to track the NAV fairly closely , both because investors do n't want to overpay for an ETF or get less than it is worth , and also because large institutions may buy or redeem a large block of shares ( to profit ) when the price is out of line . This will bring the price closer to that of the underlying asset ( e.g. the NASDAQ 100 for QQQ ) which is reflected by the NAV .
end question
start question
Filled wrong answer for a question in a previous 1040NR form , do I need to send amendment ?
Form 8843 is not an income tax return . I do n't think you need to file an amendment .
Form 8843 is not an income tax return . I do n't think you need to file an amendment .
No . The electronic rejection did n't change the due date of your return and the following code sections still apply . <URL> - > <URL> ( 3 ) Time when contributions deemed made For purposes of this section , a taxpayer shall be deemed to have made a contribution to an individual retirement plan on the last day of the preceding taxable year if the contribution is made on account of such taxable year and is made not later than the time prescribed by law for filing the return for such taxable year ( not including extensions thereof ) .
I think something you might want to look at is a service called <URL> . They charge $ 0.25 per transaction , and are free for transactions under $ 10 .
You got a refund last year right ? I believe your 1099-G is probably the income from that . The G is government income .
As @duffbeer703 mentioned , it really depends on the type of loan . But you might not know what type of loan you will eligible for : unsecured versus secured ? personal versus debt consolidation ? line of credit versus home improvement ? You WILL know whether you are applying for boat loan versus a home mortgage though ! What will help your chances of being approved ? If possible , make an appointment in advance with a loan officer ! That 's better than just walking in . ( It might increase your chances of being perceived as a responsible , valued bank customer . ) Focus on the purpose of the loan . Let the bank representative tell you what your options are . If you are told that you do n't qualify , ask if there is something else that they could suggest . It might mean paying a higher rate of interest , or using some other asset or account as collateral for a secured loan . It is up to you whether you want to do that . Depends on your situation , urgency of need , trade-off 's . Documents to bring with Start by looking at the bank 's website . See if there are any suggestions there , for document req 's . If that is n't helpful , call on the telephone . Say that you want to speak to a loan officer . Mention any accounts or other existing relationship you have with the bank . Then describe as best you can what type of loan you want , the purpose ( to buy a house , boat , car , repay student loans at lower interest rate etc ) . You 'll need some combination of the following : Proof of ID which in the United States , ( was in the question tag ) , would be a picture ID . A driver 's license or state ID card is good . If you do n't have those , then a U.S. Passport or military ID . Social security number ( but not necessarily the card ) Prior year 's tax returns , other financial account statements ( or account numbers if with the same bank ) Pay stubs or something that shows income . Also , when you make the appointment or call , you may be told to bring title on property , vehicle , credit card statement , student loan docs . It all depends on the type of loan . Good luck , hope you get what you want !
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
The form is just for your records . You do not need to adjust your tax return . From the article " <URL> " : Form 5498 : IRA Contributions Information reports your IRA contributions to the IRS . Your IRA trustee or issuer -- not you -- is required to file this form with the IRS by May 31 . You wo n't find this form in TurboTax , nor do you file it with your tax return . The copy you receive in the mail is a copy for your records . It 's a good idea to verify that the amount reported on the form ( box 1 ) matches what you actually contributed .
You 're not subject to the US tax laws , and since the income is not US-sourced , it is not subject to withholding . Your employer does n't need any form , but if they insist - you can provide them a W8-BEN to certify your non-resident status . Keep in mind that if you do come to the US , the money you earn while in the US is US-sourced and subject to the US taxes and withholding , even if you 're non-resident .
To start trading at a minimum you need 3 things ; Bank Account : This again is not must , but most preferred to transact . Quite a few broker would insist on this . Demat Account : This is must as all shares on NSE are held electronically . The custodians are CSDL or NSDL both Government entities . These do n't offer services directly to customer , but via other financial institutions like Banks and Large Brokers . Broker Account : This is required to buy or sell securities . If you are only buying in IPO , this is not required as one can directly participate in IPO and Broker is not involved . However if you want to buy and sell on NSE you would need a broker account . Quite a few financial institutes offer all 3 services or 2 services [ Demat/Broker ] . The fee structure and online service etc are differentiators . You can take a look at options and decide the best one to use .
The answer is ... it depends ... :) It depends on how the university reports covering your tuition expenses . The end result is that any amount the university pays for you to attend school that goes directly to Qualified Education Expenses as listed in the attached form should not be taxed . So ... it the entire " fellowship " income is reported to you as a w-2 or 1099 then you can claim the qualified expenses on the 8917 . You ca n't claim any expenses that were paid by the university that were not reported as income on either a w2 or 1099 . Note : I believe from another question that you mentioned that you were not from the US . In that case the handling is different if you classify yourself as a non-resident alien . Note 2 : I am a little confused by one fact of your question . You are n't currently in school ? Just to be sure , know that you for taxes that are being filed now ( for tax year 2011 ) only expenses paid in 2011 can be claimed .
For the broker it may be the same , since the actual act of recharacterization requires you to withdraw the money from one account and put it into the other . The specifics of withdrawing from Roth for re-characterization may be warranting a special procedure for them , but from Traditional to Roth - they 're blind to whether it is conversion or re-characterization . The one who 's not blind to it is you . <URL> , in order to re-characterize , all you need is to do the conversion before the tax return due date ( + extensions ) , i.e. : before April 15th , or if you submitted the <URL> in a timely manner , October 15th next year ( after the year to which the deposit is attributed , so in your case - it is October 15th , 2014 ) . To recharacterize a contribution , you generally must have the contribution transferred from the first IRA ( the one to which it was made ) to the second IRA in a trustee-to-trustee transfer . If the transfer is made by the due date ( including extensions ) for your tax return for the tax year during which the contribution was made , you can elect to treat the contribution as having been originally made to the second IRA instead of to the first IRA . If you recharacterize your contribution , you must do all three of the following . Include in the transfer any net income allocable to the contribution . If there was a loss , the net income you must transfer may be a negative amount . Report the recharacterization on your tax return for the year during which the contribution was made . Treat the contribution as having been made to the second IRA on the date that it was actually made to the first IRA . You should ask the broker , however , to have the recharacterized amount to appear on the <URL> for the new contribution .
You should initial for any alteration made to the check . <URL> of the Uniform Commercial Code , which deals with altered checks , specifies a wide array of actions that constitute an altered check , so you want to make sure that you 've initialed for any change you make to the check that would constitute an " altered check " without such authorization . ( a ) " Alteration " means ( i ) an unauthorized change in an instrument that purports to modify in any respect the obligation of a party , or ( ii ) an unauthorized addition of words or numbers or other change to an incomplete instrument relating to the obligation of a party . If you need to change the amount , however , you 're probably better off shredding the check . Remember that it 's very easy for someone to commit fraud if they <URL> . If you do n't have access to a shredder , see Victor 's <URL> for an easy way to securely shred the check .
IRS does n't require 1099 to be filed for payments of less than $ 10 . It is , however , taxable income . The fact that 1099 was n't filed with the IRS does n't affect your tax liabilities . If for example you have a private loan ( say to a family member ) and get paid interest on it , the payer will also probably not file 1099-INT with the IRS . However the interest you 're being paid is taxable income to you and should be reported on Schedule B.
In the U.S. , <URL> is known as the tax return . This is the form that is filed annually to calculate your tax due for the year , and you either claim a refund if you have overpaid your taxes or send in a payment if you have underpaid . The form is generally due on April 15 each year , but this year the due date is April 18 , 2016 . When it comes to filing your taxes , there are two questions you need to ask yourself : " Am I required to file ? " and " Should I file ? " Am I required to file ? The <URL> has a section called " Do I have to file ? " with several charts that determine if you are legally required to file . It depends on your status and your gross income . If you are single , under 65 , and not a dependent on someone else 's return , you are not required to file if your 2015 income was less than $ 10,300 . If you will be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's return , however , you must file if your earned income ( from work ) was over $ 6300 , or your unearned income ( from investments ) was over $ 1050 , or your gross ( total ) income was more than the larger of either $ 1050 or your earned income + $ 350 . See the instructions for more details . Should I file ? Even if you find that you are not required to file , it may be beneficial to you to file anyway . There are two main reasons you might do this : If you have had income where tax has been taken out , you may have overpaid the tax . Filing the tax return will allow you to get a refund of the amount that you overpaid . As a student , you may be eligible for student tax credits that can get you a refund even if you did not pay any tax during the year . How to file For low income tax payers , the IRS has a program called <URL> that provides free filing software options .
California is not one of the states that have a " Connivence of Employer " rules that would force a non-resident ( telecommuter ) to pay state income tax As of 2013 , only New York , Pennsylvania , Delware , and Nebraska have these laws . If you spent a portion of the year physically working in CA , that would change things , but not for a 100 % telecommute situation
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
I wrote a <URL> ( < < it may not be obvious - this is a link to pull down the spreadsheet ) a while back that might help you . You can start by putting your current salary next to your age , adjust the percent of income saved ( 14 % for you ) and put in the current total . The sheet basically shows that if one saves 15 % from day one of working and averages an 8 % return , they are on track to save over 20X their final income , and at the 4 % withdrawal rate , will replace 80 % of their income . ( Remember , if they save 15 % and at retirement the 7.65 % FICA / medicare goes away , so it 's 100 % of what they had anyway . ) For what it 's worth , a 10 % average return drops what you need to save down to 9 % . I say to a young person - try to start at 15 % . Better that when you 're 40 , you realize you 're well ahead of schedule and can relax a bit , than to assume that 8-9 % is enough to save and find you need a large increase to catch up . To answer specifically here - there are those who concluded that 4 % is a safe withdrawal rate , so by targeting 20X your final income as retirement savings , you 'll be able to retire well . Retirement spending needs are not the same for everyone . When I cite an 80 % replacement rate , it 's a guess , a rule of thumb that many point out is flawed . The ' real ' number is your true spending need , which of course can be far higher or lower . The younger investor is going to have a far tougher time guessing this number than someone a decade away from retiring . The 80 % is just a target to get started , it should shift to the real number in your 40s or 50s as that number becomes clear . Next , I see my original answer did n't address Social Security benefits . The benefit is n't linear , a lower wage earner can see a benefit of as much as 50 % of what they earned each year while a very high earner would see far less as the benefit has a maximum . A $ 90k earner will see 30 % or less . The social security site does a great job of giving you your projected benefit , and you can adjust target savings accordingly . 2016 update - the prior 20 years returned 8.18 % CAGR . Considering there were 2 crashes one of which was called a mini-depression , 8.18 % is pretty remarkable . For what it 's worth , my adult investing life started in 1984 , and I 've seen a CAGR of 10.90 % . For forecasting purposes , I think 8 % long term is a conservative number . To answer member " doobop " comment - the 10 years from 2006-2015 had a CAGR of 7.29 % . Time has a way of averaging that lost decade , the 00 's , to a more reasonable number .
There is no " Married " filing status ; there are " Married Filing Jointly " and " Married Filing Separately " . As you are married as of the end of 2016 , you may only file 2016 taxes as Married Filing Jointly or Married Filing Separately ( or in certain situations if you have a dependent , you might be able to choose Head of Household ) , and can not file as Single . You are a resident alien for 2016 , as you pass the green card test . I will assume that your wife has n't been to the US much , so she is a nonresident alien for 2016 , because she does not pass the green card test or the substantial presence test . In this case , there are basically two ways the two of you can do it : File as Married Filing Separately . This basically means you file as Married Filing Separately and she almost certainly does not have to file as nonresident aliens are only taxed on income connected to the US , and I 'm assuming that she does n't have any . Note that the tax calculated for Married Filing Separately is almost always worse than for Married Filing Jointly , especially if the two people 's incomes are very different . File as Married Filing Jointly . Since one of you is a resident alien and the other is a nonresident alien , this will involve using the <URL> election . Your wife will be treated as a resident alien for all of 2016 . As a resident alien , her worldwide income is subject to US tax , and will need to be reported on the tax return , but she should be able to use the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion to exclude the first about $ 100k of her foreign earned income , since she was outside the US for virtually all of the year . If she does n't already have a Social Security Number , she will have to apply for an ITIN together with filing of the tax return . Note that you could also file separately at first , and then ( within 3 years ) amend the tax return to file jointly when it is more convenient ( e.g. after she gets a Social Security Number , so she wo n't have to go through the hassle of applying for an ITIN while abroad ) .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
end question
start question
How frequently is the list of constituents that make up the S&P / ASX 300 updated ?
The S&amp;P / ASX 300 is rebalanced every six months , with changes taking effect on the third Friday of March and September . From a PDF under <URL>
The list of the public companies is available on the regulatory agencies ' sites usually ( for example , in the US , you can look at SEC filings ) . Otherwise , you can check the stock exchange listings , which show all the public companies traded on that exchange . The shareholders , on the other hand , are normally not listed and not published . You 'll have to ask the company , and it probably wo n't tell you ( and wo n't even know them all as many shares are held in the " street name " of the broker ) .
It can be pretty hard to compute the right number . What you need to know for your actual return is called the dollar-weighted return . This is the Internal Rate of Return ( IRR ) <URL> computed for your actual cash flows . So if you add $ 100 per month or whatever , that has to be factored in . If you have a separate account then hopefully your investment manager is computing this . If you just have mutual funds at a brokerage or fund company , computing it may be a bunch of manual labor , unless the brokerage does it for you . A site like Morningstar will show a couple of return numbers on say an S&amp;P 500 index fund . The first is " time weighted " and is just the raw return if you invested all money at time A and took it all out at time B . They also show " investor return " which is the average dollar-weighted return for everyone who invested in the fund ; so if people sold the fund during a market crash , that would lower the investor return . This investor return shows actual returns for the average person , which makes it more relevant in one way ( these were returns people actually received ) but less relevant in another ( the return is often lower because people are on average doing dumb stuff , such as selling at market bottoms ) . You could compare yourself to the time-weighted return to see how you did vs. if you 'd bought and held with a big lump sum . And you can compare yourself to the investor return to see how you did vs. actual irrational people . .02 , it is n't clear that either comparison matters so much ; after all , the idea is to make adequate returns to meet your goals with minimum risk of not meeting your goals . You ca n't spend " beating the market " ( or " matching the market " or anything else benchmarked to the market ) in retirement , you can only spend cash . So beating a terrible market return wo n't make you feel better , and beating a great market return is n't necessary . I think it 's bad that many investment books and advisors frame things in terms of a market benchmark . ( Market benchmarks have their uses , such as exposing index-hugging active managers that are n't earning their fees , but to me it 's easy to get mixed up and think the market benchmark is " the point " - I feel " the point " is to achieve your financial goals . )
See the FTSE Volatility Index . You can see the current index on the Bloomberg site ( just one place of many to read it ) : <URL> You can find background info on what brought the index about , and how to read it , here : <URL> FTA : " Market participants consider volatility indices to work like a barometer ; a high value translates to a greater degree of underlying index turbulence ; a low value is consistent with greater stability . "
Short answer That ratio is a decent approximation of the market cap distribution in VTSMX , although it 's not perfect because the two funds you have access to , VIIIX and VIEIX , overlap somewhat in their holdings . The S&amp;P 500 and the completion index do n't . Using the S&amp;P 500 and the completion index as relative weights gives you ( 14.7 +3.4 ) / 14.7 = 81.2 % and 1-0 .812 = 18.8 % for VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively . We can verify that this is close to the best allocation using either of the two methods below . Based on that , it 's safe to say that an allocation of 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX should replicate VTSMX pretty well . Remember that because of expense ratios ( among other factors ) , the returns to your replicated portfolio may not match the returns to the target portfolio exactly . Long answer According to Morningstar , <URL> has the market cap distribution shown in the first column . Morningstar places VTSMX in the Large Blend category , so the category averages in the right-hand column are for that category . The benchmark index is the <URL> . <URL> and <URL> have these distributions : We want to find allocations for VIIIX and VIEIX , i.e. two percentages that sum to 1 , that give us a portfolio with a market cap distribution as close to that of VTSMX as possible . There are several methods that would work for this ; both return the same solution : Method 1 : Goal-seeking in Excel Using the goal-seek feature of Excel , I found that allocating 80.5712423979149 % of your portfolio to VIIIX and the remainder ( 19.4287576 % ) to VIEX yields this distribution ( shown in the " replicated " column ) , which is pretty close . The second data column is VTSMX , the fund you 're trying to replicate . This gives me the allocation of approximately 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX that I listed in the short answer above . The percent error , which is calculated as the absolute value of the difference between the allocations divided by the allocation in VTSMX , increases as market capitalization decreases , but that should n't bother you . Since allocation decreases as market cap decreases , even though the error grows as market cap decreases , that error represents an increasingly small amount of the fund 's actual value . This is n't a perfect system , because I 'm abusing the notion of " weighted percent errors " a little here , but hopefully the idea is clear . Method 2 : Matrices In this specific case , matrices provide a much more robust , and arguably logical , strategy . From a mathematical perspective , this is the problem we 're trying to solve : where and are the percentage allocations of VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively , that you want in your 401K portfolio . At first glance , it looks like you can simply solve the last equation for and substitute that value into any of the first four equations to solve for ; unfortunately , if you try this strategy with the fourth equation , you get a value of , but if you try this with the third equation , you get . If you try using the value of that came from the fourth equation in any of the other equations ( besides the fifth one , in which it does n't matter ) you 'll find it wo n't work . The same goes for the that came from the third equation , or the second , or the first . It seems we have a problem . All is not lost , however . If you 've ever taken an algebra course , you can see that the system of equations above looks like this matrix equation : I labeled the numerical matrix on the left-hand side of the equation to save space . The linear algebra theory probably is n't exciting to everyone as it is to me , so I 'll keep it short . Since is a 5x2 matrix with <URL> 2 , it therefore has a <URL> , which we can calculate like this : With our left-inverse in hand , we can quickly find the solution to the matrix equation like this : which gives us the same solution that we found with Excel . It 's also important to understand that this is the " best " solution to the problem ; in other words , we have found the weights of VIIIX and VIEIX that replicates the market cap distribution of VTSMX as closely as possible . If you 've ever taken a statistics or econometrics course , you might recognize the calculation and application of the left-inverse as the <URL> estimation of the weights ; that means that in this case , " closest " implies that the weights we found minimize the sum of the squares of the differences ( " errors " or " residuals " ) between our replicated portfolio and VTSMX . While the matrix/OLS method seems more complicated , I include it because it may be much quicker computationally than using Excel if you attempt to replicate a portfolio using more than two funds . The matrix/OLS method also scales very well in situations where more than two funds are used in the replication . Also , in this case , we had the relative weights of the S&amp;P 500 and the Completion Index to use as guides , but once we start adding more funds with potentially more overlapping holdings between them , calculating a simple ratio may not work
Based on their <URL> After the initial market capitalization breakpoints are determined by the ranges listed above , new members are assigned on the basis of the breakpoints , and existing members are reviewed to determine if they fall within a cumulative 5 % market cap range around these new market capitalization breakpoints . If an existing member 's market cap falls within this cumulative 5 % of the market capitalization breakpoint , it will remain in its current index rather than be moved to a different market capitalization -- based Russell index . Companies that fall on the edge of market capitalization breakpoints are often still within a manager 's opportunity set , since they have not significantly grown or declined in market capitalization . In other words they wo n't move companies from the Russel 2000 to the Russel 1000 to the other just for the sake of moving them , if they are within 5 % of the break point . Moving them just adds to selling and buying of stocks with no real advantage . This can mean that one list will be too big and the other too small .
The S&amp;P / ASX 300 is rebalanced every six months , with changes taking effect on the third Friday of March and September . From a PDF under <URL>
After reading their full guarantee page , it seems that they really do n't understand the definition of the word . They do n't seem to offer any guarantee , but rather just a list of reasons that they believe their plan is foolproof . Mostly they argue that their lawyers have covered every angle and a lot of big players use them so naturally everyone will respect the value of their online currency . Nowhere do they address what happens if their company goes belly up , which is the primary thing I 'd be worried about with this type of thing . Ironically they specifically state on their guarantee page Many first-rate payment systems tried to guarantee their stability but unfortunately failed to fulfill their obligations given to the users and contractors . Myopic investment policy and court claims of tax agencies have frequently adversely affected the work of Electronic Payment Systems . Which , personally , would make me even MORE nervous to use their system . Their guarantee amounts to , other systems have crashed and burned , but we are smarter than those guys and even hired lawyers to confirm it !
There is an arithmetically calculated value for the difference , or spread , between the futures contract price and the actual cash value of the underlying stocks ( in the appropriate weighting ) comprising the S&amp;P 500 . This spread is a function of current short term interest rates and the time remaining until the futures contract expires . Whenever the spread is at fair value , there is no benefit from owning the futures instead of the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks , or vice-versa . When the <URL> , by a large enough margin , then ... either stocks or futures will become more attractive than the other , and they [ traders in size ] will sell one and buy the other . The spread varies all day , because the futures contract and the actual S&amp;P 500 stocks trade independently of each other . The futures trade in Chicago at the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . The underlying S&amp;P 500 stocks trade on the NYSE in New York , a different marketplace . Supply and demand for ALL 500 stocks in the S&amp;P index determine the cash price of the S&amp;P 500 . Sometimes , there are short term discrepancies , which might seem to present an opportunity for arbitrage . When those discrepancies happen , and they can be due to many insignificant things e.g. the normal progression or " rolling over " of futures contract expiration dates , the spread can deviate from fair value . These differences are not large in magnitude , and the market quickly reacts removing any discount or premium . So there really is n't a chance for most investors to benefit from this sort of arbitrage . This is the formula for the fair value of the spread : where F = break even futures price S = spot index price i = interest rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) d = dividend rate ( expressed as a money market yield ) t = number of days from today 's spot value date to the value date of the futures contract . Something like <URL> presents more opportunity for mild arbitrage . To directly answer your question , no , shorting the S&amp;P futures wo n't move the underlying prices of the 500 stocks . The relationship goes in the other direction i.e. the price of the 500 stocks , with the exception of tiny variations like I described above , are what drive the price of the futures contract .
This is only a rule of thumb . Peter Lynch popularized it ; the ratio PE/growth is often called the <URL> . At best it 's a very rough guideline . It completely ignores the balance sheet . It makes no distinction between accounting earnings and cash flow . It does n't consider qualitative characteristics like management competence . I could fill up this page with other caveats . I 'm not saying that it 's wrong , only that it 's grossly incomplete . For a 10 second eyeball valuation of growth stocks , it 's fine . But that 's the extent of its usefulness .
Just to be clear , this is a 2011 tax table . No problem as an example , but I do n't want you paying the wrong tax if you 're actually using this now . Beyond that , you 've got the right idea , but you need to keep track of the progressive nature at each rung . The first line your table is so if you 're in the lowest bracket you just pay 10 % . The second line is The third column contains 10 % of the top of the first bracket , which is 10 % of $ 8,500 . So far so good . Now the third line is Now to get the third column here , you take the $ 850 from the third column of the second line , and you add 15 % of ( $ 34,500 - $ 8,550 ) . In other words , you 're adding the marginal tax for the full width of the previous bracket only .
To a certain extent , small cap companies will in general follow the same trends as large cap companies . The extent of this cointegration depends on numerous factors , but a prime reason is the presence of <URL> , i.e. the risk to the entire market . In simple terms , sthis is the risk that your portfolio will approach asymptotically as you increase its diversification , and it 's why hedging is also important . That being said , small cap businesses will , in general , likely do worse than large cap stocks , for several reasons . This was/is <URL> in the Great Recession . Small cap businesses have , on average , higher betas , which is a measure of a company 's risk compared to the overall market . This means that small cap companies , on average outperform large cap companies during boom times , but it also means that they suffer more on average during bear times . <URL> over whether or not the standard beta is still useful for small cap companies continues , however . Some economists feel that small cap companies are better measured against the Russell 2000 or similar indexes instead of the S&amp;P 500 . Small cap companies may face problems accessing or maintaining access to lines of credit . During the Great Recession , major lenders <URL> to small businesses , which might make it harder for them to weather the storm . On a related point , small businesses might not have as large an asset base to use as collateral for loans in bad times . One notable large cap company that used its asset base to their advantage was Ford , which gave banks partial ownership of its factories during hard times . This a ) gave Ford a good amount of cash with which to continue their short-term operations , and b ) gave the banks a vested interest in keeping Ford 's lines of credit open . Ford <URL> , but it never faced the financial problems of GM and Chrysler . Despite political rhetoric about Main Street vs. Wall Street , small businesses do n't receive as much government aid in times of crisis as some large cap companies do . For example , the <URL> , a brilliant but poorly implemented idea in 2010 , allocated less than $ 30 billion to small businesses . ( The actual amount loaned was considerably less ) . Compare that to the amounts loaned out under TARP . Discussions about corporate lobbying power aside , small businesses are n't as crucial to the overall stability of the financial system Small businesses do n't always have the manpower to keep up with changes in regulation . When the Dodd-Frank Act passed , large banks ( as an example ) , could hire more staff to understand it and adapt to it relatively easily ; small banks , however , do n't always have the resources to invest in such efforts . There are other reasons , some of which are industry-specific , but these are some of the basic ones . Graph ( s ) If you want visual confirmation that small cap businesses follow a similar trend , here is a graph of the Russell 2000 and S&amp;P 500 indexes : Here is a similar graph for the Russell 2000 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average . If you wanted to confirm this technically and control for the numerous complicated factors ( overlap between indexes , systemic risk , seasonal adjustment , etc. ) , just ask and I 'll try to run some numbers on it when I have a chance . Keep in mind , too , that looking at a pretty picture is no substitute for rigorous financial econometrics . A basic start would be to look at the correlation between the indexes , which I calculate as and , respectively . As you can see , they 're pretty close . Once again , however , the reality is more complicated technically , and a sufficiently detailed analysis is beyond my capabilities . Just a quick side note . These graphs show the logarithm of the values of the indexes , which is a common statistical nuance that is used when comparing time series with radically different magnitudes but similar trends . Data sources S&amp;P 500 and Russell 2000 data came from Yahoo! Finance , and the Dow Jones Industrial Average data came from <URL> Code Per usual , I try to provide code whenever possible , if I used it . Here is the Stata code I used to generate the graphs above . This code assumes the presence of and , downloaded from Yahoo! Finance , and , downloaded from FRED , in the current directory . Further reading Fidelity published an <URL> on the subject that you might find interesting , and Seeking Alpha has <URL> <URL> related to small-cap vs. large-cap returns that might be worth a read too .
In accrual accounting , you 're not meant to book expenses before they happen . The " accrual " part means you recognize ( accrue ) expenses as they are incurred , which is not necessarily when they are paid ( which often happens later ) . The idea with accrual accounting is to recognize that unpaid liabilities are still a claim against current assets , even if the cash to pay has n't left the bank account yet . Under accrual accounting , consider that if you had prepaid future expenses , the prepaid expense amount would actually be recognized in the books as an asset , up until the point where the company actually incurs the expense . Only when the expense gets incurred is it booked as an expense , using up a portion of the prepaid amount . What ought to be clear from accrual 's treatment of prepaid expenses is that you generally do n't get to claim as a liability any expense that has not yet been incurred . That being said -- while financial accounting ( and the tax man ) says you should maintain your books as an accurate historical record , you are still free for your own purposes to make separate " forward looking " projections of your company 's income or other metrics . Forward-looking projections for informing decision making is generally what management accounting is concerned with . Just do n't book these fictitious liabilities in your books of record -- work in a separate spreadsheet or on a copy of your books . Your actual books should reflect what has actually happened , not what might .
83 ( b ) election is for restricted stocks , not options , so my answer assumes exercise at vest/at grant ( early exercise ) . Will I have to pay tax on ( 2000 * 8 = $ 16000 ) Yes . Will it be a regular income tax or AMT or a short term capital gain ? You have no gain . You vested at $ 10 and sold at $ 10 , you got a wash . The $ 16K you mentioned earlier is the benefit you got from the company , which is not a gain but your salary and is taxed as such ( including FICA etc ) . Also , I read that 83B does not make sense for vested stocks Indeed . In the above case , can I file 83B for the unvested 1000 stocks ? No , you can only file 83 ( b ) election within 30 days from the grant . By not filing it , you ended up with $ 16K being taxed at vest time as your salary ( i.e. : at marginal rates ) . Had you filed 83 ( b ) election on time , you 'd pay the tax on your benefit ( the $ 2 per option , if you did n't have to buy them ) , but all the gains on vesting would be capital gains ( likely long term ) . That ship has sailed , for that particular grant . Since in your case you can exercise the options , it is not as bad as it could have been . Consider a case where you got 1000 options at $ 0.01 , they vested at $ 1000 , you exercised them to get the stocks and you could n't sell any ( not yet public , ca n't sell privately , etc ) . You 'd be taxed on $ 1M when you never actually received any cash income , and you 'd have to chip out $ 300K on taxes on income you never had . By the time you could sell , the stocks can fall , say to $ 100 , leaving you with hundreds of thousands of capital loss that you can not deduct , and hundreds of thousands of taxes owed which you have no money to pay . That led to a lot of problems for people during the 90 's . com bubble and the subsequent crash .
This is called currency speculation , and it 's one of the more risky forms of investing . Unless you have a crystal ball that tells you the Euro will move up ( or down ) relative to the Dollar , it 's purely speculation , even if it seems like it 's on an upswing . You have to remember that the people who are speculating ( professionally ) on currency are the reason that the amount changed , and it 's because something caused them to believe the correct value is the current one - not another value in one direction or the other . This is not to say people do n't make money on currency speculation ; but unless you 're a professional investor , who has a very good understanding of why currencies move one way or the other , or know someone who is ( and gives free advice ! ) , it 's not a particularly good idea to engage in it - while stock trading is typically win-win , currency speculation is always zero-sum . That said , you could hedge your funds at this point ( or any other ) by keeping some money in both accounts - that is often safer than having all in one or the other , as you will tend to break even when one falls against the other , and not suffer significant losses if one or the other has a major downturn .
If the market believes that the company is overstaffed , then management acknowledging the issue and resolving the problem can result in the price going up . It can also mean that external events drove the price up , and the bad news was lost in the other issues of the day . Sometimes layoffs are a sign of the company entering a long downward spiral ; in other cases it is a sign of the beginning recovery . The layoffs can also be viewed as good news if they were n't as big as some experts feared . You have to look at the exact situation to understand why news x impacts the companies price .
I 'm not familiar with QQQ , but I 'm guessing this is something like IShares Ftse 100 ( see description <URL> )
In the case of Wells Fargo , I believe that free trading is linked to your overall banking relationship with the firm . So if you have a checking account with a balance of $ X , or a total relationship with the bank ( " relationship " is usually defined as loan balances + deposit balances ) over a certain amount , they give you a plum like free stock trades . The theory behind this approach is that banks want to be a one-stop shop for you . The idea is that they can market the banks products to you over a period of years ( lowering customer acquisition cost ) and offer you a level of convenience that allows them to charge a premium for services . For example , many people will pay a rate or fee premium on a mortgage or car loan so that they can do all of their business in one place . In other cases , free trading is linked to marketing campaigns by funds . Charles Schwab started this with the " no transaction fee " mutual fund store many years ago -- transaction fees are actually paid for by the mutual funds who pay for placement in the program . " Free ETF trade " programs are similar .
File a small claims lawsuit in the city that the person resides . The court will charge you a small fee and give you a date . They will also summons the other person to appear . Bring all the documentation that shows the following The contractor ( you ) The contractee ( your friend ) The goods being transferred ( in your case the money with exact amount ) The start date of the agreement The end date of the agreement Proof that you transferred the money to them BONUS - Bring the documentation that shows them saying they will not pay you back I had to sue someone once for a very similar problem . I lent them a 6 month interest free loan . They told me to shove it after 6 months and 1 day . So I sued them . The court should accept facebook messages as proof . More than likely though your friend wont even show up which means you win by default . Here 's the bad news , that was the easy part . Just because you win in court does n't mean the money appears the next day . There are a couple ways you may have to recover your money . Ask REALLY nicely for it back ( no seriously , this is the easiest ) File for wage garnishment ( state dependent ) Sell your claim to collections company to collect for you Hire an executioner ( The city has a sheriff usually that handles this . Call them and ask the fee , last resort ) Best of luck to you !
Take a peek at the discussion at <URL> , in which I offer a look at the returns over shorter periods . The 20 yr returns are as follows <URL> The total returns in the middle col , and CAGR last . These are the returns for all 20 year periods from 1900-2014 . It shows an average of 11 % , and a minimum 3 % . In other words , of 96 time periods , 51 were less than 10 % , 45 were greater , and the average , 11.2 % . <URL> offers S&amp;P data easily copied into a spreadsheet . And you can manipulate to analyze as you wish . The nature of returns is closer to a bell curve . You ca n't make that final assumption that you suggested . The disparity between getting less than 3X your money vs over 20X over the bad/good 20 year periods is what makes for difficulty planning strategies . On a personal note - I am semi-retired . 53 yrs old . How different could I spend if I knew with certainty whether the next 40 years would return 3 % vs 11 % ? ( min , vs ave , I wo n't even fantasize over 15 % + )
end question
start question
Double taxation on Americans working abroad ?
I lived in the UK for a few years . Luckily the UK tax system is super easy , all PAYE ( Pay As You Earn ) , so if you only have a job and no major investments , you do n't have to file taxes at all . They 've already been collected in the proper amounts throughout the year from your paycheck . The US taxes all worldwide income , so you 'll always have to file a US tax return . However , the US has agreements with many countries ( UK included ) that exempt you from being " double-taxed " if you are under a certain amount . The limits for individuals is $ 91,500 and for married couples $ 183,000 . This amount includes deductions that you can make for housing , utilities and relocation costs . For London , the maximum housing deduction is over $ 80,000 . You automatically get a 2 month extension to file and pay your taxes if you are living abroad . You should also go back through all of 2010 and determine when you were in the US and when you were in other countries . You 'll need to document your travel in order to meet the physical presence and bonafide resident tests . Check out Publication 54 from the IRS - <URL> Also this site has a pretty good breakdown of how it all works - <URL> You 'll also need to file TD F 90-22 .1 if you have any foreign accounts worth over $ 10,000 at any point in 2010 .
I would talk to your HMRC tax office they do have guidance on this issue here <URL>
Yes When exercising a stock option you will be buying the stock at the strike price so you will be putting up your money , if you lose that money you can declare it as a loss like any other transaction . So if the stock is worth $ 1 and you have 10 options with a strike at $ 0.50 you will spend $ 500 when you exercise your options . If you hold those shares and the company is then worth $ 0 you lost $ 500 . I have not verified my answer so this is solely from my understanding of accounting and finance . Please verify with your accountant to be sure .
From my experience , almost always it is cheaper to pay in the local currency , including the bank fees and the bank conversion rates . If you let the store convert to your home currency for you it will be the least favorable rate you could have gotten anywhere . There might be some exceptions , but I have n't seen these .
I would call your bank directly and ask if they can mail you deposit slips or if they have deposit slips available to print off online . Wrap your check and completed deposit slip in a piece of paper so that the information is not visible through the envelope or packaging you are using , and ask them for a receipt when it is received . As far as endorsement , you should write " For deposit only " and sign your name underneath in the area of the back of the check for endorsements . This will ensure that the check is deposited into your account and can not be cashed if it is intercepted in the mail .
When I have been faced with this sort of situation I have done the split at the bank . They had the ability to recognize the deposit as a payroll transfer and split it the way I wanted . I put a specific amount of money into checking , another amount of money into the mortgage , and a specific amount of money into another fund . The balance , whether it was $ 1 or any other amount , went in to savings . That meant that I transferred the amounts I needed to pay my budgeted living expenses and what ever I made above that went to savings . In months I made extra , more was available to be saved .
You should first take into account your living expense in other country by using some online living expense estimator . ( for example , <URL> ) Then do some simple math to calculate the amount based on your home country currency . Apart from that , you may want to put the rest of your salary into your Canadian account .
Generally speaking , each year , mutual funds distribute to their shareholders the dividends that are earned by the stocks that they hold and also the net capital gains that they make when they sell stocks that they hold . If they did not do so , the money would be income to the fund and the fund would have to pay taxes on the amount not distributed . ( On the other hand , net capital losses are held by the fund and carried forward to later years to offset future capital gains ) . You pay taxes on the amounts of the distributions declared by the fund . Whether the fund sold a particular stock for a loss or a gain ( and if so , how much ) is not the issue ; what the fund declares as its distribution is . This is why it is not a good idea to buy a mutual fund just before it makes a distribution ; your share price drops by the per-share amount of the distribution , and you have to pay taxes on the distribution .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
No-one can improve your credit but yourself . If the bad items on your credit report are genuine - there 's nothing much these firms can do for you , really , other than taking your money for telling you that . Disputing valid bad points on the report might reset the clock for them and keep them even longer on your record .
Be ruthlessly meticulous about the <URL> . If it 's allowed , it 's allowed .
I think you should really start a limited company for this . It 'll be a lot simpler to spread the income over multiple years if your business and you have completely separate identities . You should also consult an accountant , if only once to understand the basics of how to approach this . Having a limited company would also mean that if it has financial problems , you do n't end up having to pay the debts yourself . With a separate company , you would keep any money raised within the company initially and only pay it to yourself as salary over the three years , so from an income tax point of view you 'd only be taxed on it as you received it . The company would also pay for project expenses directly and there would n't be any income tax to pay on them at all . You would have to pay other taxes like VAT , but you could choose to register for VAT and then you 'd be able to reclaim VAT on the company 's expenses but would have to charge VAT to your customers . If you start making enough money ( currently # 82,000 / year ) you have to register for VAT whether you want to or not . The only slight complication might be that you could be subject to corporation tax on the surplus money in the first year because it might seem like a profit . However , given that you would presumably have promised something to the funders over a three year period , it should be possible to record your promises as a " liability " for " unearned income " in the company accounts . In effect you 'd be saying " although there 's still # 60,000 in the bank , I have promised to spend it on the crowdfunded thing so it 's not profit " . Again you should consult an accountant at least over the basics of this .
If we knew for sure that euros are only going to be more expensive in the future , then the answer would be easy : Buy them all at one time , so that we are getting them at the best price . Of course , we ca n't assume that to be the case , they could get cheaper , so the answer gets more complicated . Focusing strictly on monetary considerations , there are two factors to examine : List item The overhead cost of currency conversion . How much do we anticipate each conversion costing ? List item The variation in exchange rate . Can we assume the rate do remain steady or is it more reasonable to assume fluctuations ? If there are fluctations , how much might it change over the course of a year ? Using answers to this <URL> as a reference , you see that the cost of currency conversion can be as low as 1 % -2 % if you make the transaction with a debit card , but can be as high as 15 % . So , buying 1000 euros a month would cost between 20 and 150 euros . Examining a <URL> gives us an idea of how much the currency fluctuates . Over the past two years , a euro has cost has much as $ 1.54 CAD and as little as $ 1.26 CAD , a 22 % spread . Looking at it on a month-to month basis , we see that monthly changes have been as high as .05 to .07 ( 4-5 % ) . As such , buying 1000 euros a month could cost 50 CAD more ( or less ) on a monthly basis due to variance in the exchange rate . If we anticipate our overhead cost of currency conversion to be more than 5 % , it does n't make sense to do multiple transactions ; the costs are likely to outweigh the benefits . If we can keep them under that amount , then multiple transactions are advantageous when the euro is cheaper . The problem is somewhat analagous to that of someone who wants to make an annual investment in a mutual fund and is unsure of whether to make the purchase all at once , or to divide it over multiple purchases . One ca n't know for sure which way the mutual fund price is going to move over the time period <URL> , spreading the purchase over regular intervals , is the generally accepted solution to this problem . As such , so long as we can keep the overhead cost of currency transactions low ( < 5 % ) , doing transactions on a regular basis positions ourselves to take advantage of possible drops in the price of euros and reduces the risk of buying euros when they are most expensive . If we ca n't keep the cost low , then currency fees would be greater than potential price drops and we would be better off doing a single transaction .
Let 's define better the situation and then analyze it : Start with : End with : Process : So has the same amount of money , just in a different bank account , but and changed states . now does n't have money , and does , as the result of the transaction between , and . The gift tax issue I see is the transfer of money from ( you ) to ( your brother ) . If you 're a US tax resident then you have $ 14K exemption from gift tax per person per year . # 20K is more than that , so it will be subject to the tax . The fact that a third person was involved as an intermediary is irrelevant - for the purpose of gift tax there 's no distinction between using a bank for transfers or a private party . Keep in mind that paying tuition directly to the institution on behalf of your brother may help you mitigate your gift tax liability - tuition payment made on behalf of your brother is exempt from gift tax . But it has to be made directly to the institution , it can not pass through your brother .
It appears that the <URL> in $ 6,500 as long as the combined income is greater than the total contributions for both spouses . Spousal IRAs If you file a joint return , you and your spouse can each make IRA contributions even if only one of you has taxable compensation . The amount of your combined contributions ca n't be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return . It does n't matter which spouse earned the compensation . Examples : Sarah , age 52 , is married with no taxable compensation for 2012 . She and her husband reported taxable compensation of $ 60,000 on their 2013 joint return . Sarah may contribute $ 6,500 to her IRA for 2013 ( $ 5,500 plus an additional $ 1,000 contribution for age 50 and over ) .
Because you 've sold something you 've received cash ( or at least an entry on your brokerage statement to say you 've got cash ) so you should record that as a credit in your brokerage account in GnuCash . The other side of the entry should go into another account that you create called something like " Open Positions " and is usually marked as a Liability account type ( if you need to mark it as such ) . If you want to keep an accurate daily tally of your net worth you can add a new entry to your Open Positions account and offset that against Income which will be either negative or positive depending on how the position has moved for/against you . You can also do this at a lower frequency or not at all and just put an entry in when your position closes out because you bought it back or it expired or it was exercised . My preferred method is to have a single entry in the Open Positions account with an arbitrary date near when I expect it to be closed and each time I edit that value ( daily or weekly ) so I only have the initial entry and the current adjust to look at which reduces the number of entries and confusion if there are too many .
No , since you 're a non-resident alien you can not claim it . Had you been resident when you paid that tuition , you might have been able to claim it . You 're only a US resident for tax purposes starting of the first day of your TN status , and since you do n't pay US taxes on your earnings before that - you also do n't get credits . You should , of course , verify this with a licensed tax adviser ( which I 'm not ) .
Fellow student here ! Okay , I do n't have enough rep to ask you a question otherwise I would check which year you started uni ( 2 years left could be on anything from a 3 year course to a 5 year sandwich with integrated masters and a retake year ) and which UK country you were in , as the repayment rules differ slightly depending on whether you were using Student Finance England &amp; Wales/NI/Scotland . However assuming you started after September 2012 and were in England/Wales i.e. <URL> , you would need to complete an <URL> to let the repayment company know how much you 're earning and calculate the equivalent repayment rate depending the earnings threshold for your destination country . It 'd be up to you to let them know if your circumstances change , but there 's no way they 'd stop you from leaving the UK . I think the other plans work in the same way but you can check your particular circumstance on the student loan repayment website <URL> . So in short , nope . You 'll be fine !
I do n't think the choice of how you report it is going to be up to you . If you won more than $ 600 from a DFS site then you will be receiving a form from them in January , and that form will dictate how you report it . The form will likely be a 1099-MISC which means you will report it as such . The good news is that with a 1099-MISC they should automatically deduct your entry fees , so for example if you paid $ 1000 to play throughout the year , and won $ 5000 that year , your 1099-MISC should be for $ 4000 . If you were to receive a W-2G form ( Gambling winnings ) , typically this would be for only your winnings , so from the previous example it would be for $ 5000 rather than $ 4000 , and you would have to deduct your $ 1000 yourself . The caveat though is you can only deduct your gambling losses if you itemize ( as opposed to taking the standard deduction ) . If you do itemize , a W-2G is probably preferred because not only can you deduct your losses from DFS , but you would also be able to deduct any other losses you had such as lottery tickets , casino play , etc. . Lastly , if certain conditions are met , ( for example if you use PayPal to get your money and you have more than 200 transactions in a year and you had more than 20K in winnings ) , you could receive a 1099-K form . If you receive this form I 'd recommend discussing with an accountant to help you maximize your deductions as it 's very likely they 'll save you much more than their fee .
I moved abroad for 3 years , and did n't have to forego the use of my cards or bank accounts at all . I switched most of my account statements to paperless , conducted all my bill payments online , and to handle the occasional snail mail that still trickled through , got myself an international mail forwarding service -- US Global Mail is their name . They even have an option to throw out the junk mail , and allow you to look at sender information on the web , and you can decide whether to discard or forward the mail to you . As for taxes , I did sign up with a tax preparer with international experience , but it was expensive ( up to $ 3K per tax year ) and largely unnecessary . I 've found that H&amp;R Block ( or equivalent , that 's not an endorsement ) can provide you pretty comprehensive services for international tax issues ( e.g. the income exemption , or allocation of income to US or global ) .
end question
start question
Free Historical Commodity Prices in txt ?
At <URL> , they have some historical data which you can grab from their charts : Find the commodity on the left hand side choose your date range ( I used 25 years ) Right click on the chart and select Copy data to clipboard Open notepad ( or some other text editor ) and past in the data . Save your file as a . txt ( you could also try pasting directly into a spreadsheet ) It only has a price on a monthly basis ( at least for the 25 year chart ) . It has a number of things , like barley , oranges , crude oil , aluminum , beef , etc. . I grabbed the data for 25 years of banana prices and here 's an excerpt ( in dollars per metric ton ) : That page did not appear to have historical prices for gold , though .
Go to <URL> , search for the stock you want . When you are seeing the stock information , in the top left corner there 's a link that says ' Historical prices ' . Click on it . then select the date range , click update ( do n't forget this ) and ' Download to spreadsheet ' ( on the right , below the chart ) . For example , this <URL> takes you to the historical data for MSFT for the last 10 years . <URL> has something similar , like <URL> . In this case the link to download a CSV is at the bottom of the table .
Having seen the process of reporting and dealing with stolen checks I would pay the fee and , very truthfully , I would do everything in my power to avoid getting checks at all . Many of the banks now offer online interfaces that allow you to provide the payee information and they will send a printed check on your behalf , which is much much safer . If someone steals a book of your checks multiple things have to be done and the process is ongoing and painful . This is by no means a complete list , but it shows how painful this can be . Close the bank account ( And change and direct deposit or autopay setups ) Report to ChexSystems ( reporting agency for checking accounts ) Fill out a fraud report for every stolen check that gets used Fill out a fraud report for every bad check of someone else 's that gets logged against your account We closed the bank account within 15 minutes of the checks being stolen and still multiple checks got through , both written directly against the account as well as the thieves cashing other people 's stolen checks against the account since they new the account number . Several times they were able to do this within the bank , even though the account had already been closed so it 's a major problem if your checks disappear , and if you do n't have a way to track them then you 'll be very late in realizing that they 're stolen . Additionally this bank ( not sure if this is common with others ) insisted on paying the stolen money back into the closed account , instead of into a new account . This allowed the thieves to steal the same money several times over , forcing us through the weeks long process of reporting the fraud and dealing with the bank 's fraud investigators again .
As I 'm sure you are reading in Hull 's classic , the basic valuation of bonds depends on the chance of entity defaulting on those bonds . Let 's start with just looking at the US . The United States has a big advantage over corporations in issuing debt as it also prints the same currency that the debt is denominated in . This makes it much easier not to default on your debt as you can always print more money to pay it . Printing too much currency would cause inflation lowering the value of debt , but this would also lower the value of US corporate debt as well . So you can think of even the highest rated corporate bonds as having the same rate as government debt plus a little extra due to the additional default risk of the corporation . The situation with other AA rated governments is more complicated . Most of those governments have debt denominated in their local currency as well so it may seem like they should all have similar rates . However , some governments have higher and some actually have lower rates than the United States . Now , as above , some of the difference is due to the possible need of printing too much currency to cover the debt in crisis and now that we have more than one country to invest in the extra risk of international money flowing out of the country 's bonds . However , the bigger difference between AA governments rates depends more on money flow , central banks and regulation . Bonds are still mostly freely traded instruments that respond to supply and demand , but this supply and demand is heavily influenced by governments . Central banks buy up large portions of the debt raising demand and lowering rates . Regulators force banks to hold a certain amount of treasuries perhaps inflating demand . Finally , to answer your question the United States has some interesting advantages partially just due to its long history of stability , controlled inflation and large economy making treasuries valuable as one of the lowest risk investments . So its rates are generally on the low end , but government manipulation can still mean that it is not necessarily the lowest .
I am going to answer my own question . First of all , if your broker trades bonds , then you can find their historical rates there . Next , if you do n't have a broker that trades bonds go to FINRA 's bond center at <URL>
<URL> . But how viable it is for your needs , I can not comment on it . A google for crowd funding gave me a number of websites , but I believe you have to figure out which one is best for your needs and available in your state .
The best bank with least amount of gotchas is Alliant Credit Union . I did a lot of research and finally decided on this bank . I did a comparative study between ING , Ally and Alliant and found Alliant to be superior than the the other two . More about my study : <URL> If you do find a better bank than this , please update this post , I 'd definitely like to know ! Disclaimer : I have no relationship with either of the three banks .
There are obviously lots of complexities here , and there are rules against price or market manipulation that are somewhat interpretive due to the rules ' inclusion of the manipulator 's intent , but : Generally speaking , you can publicly promote the value of a company whose stock you own provided that you : Do n't have any material , non-public information ( which would be insider trading ) Do n't materially misstate facts or mislead the public Disclose your ownership , and as such , your conflict Now , if you extol the value of a company publicly , and sell it immediately thereafter , " pump and dump , " the regulators might suggest that your actions imply that you did n't believe it was so wonderful , and were misleading the public to move the price . That said , a fair retort might be that you loved it for all the reasons you said at [ lower price ] , but thought it had run its course once it got to [ higher price ] . Again , if it can be demonstrated that your reason for praising it was to push the price higher , your intent may land you in hot water . This is n't legal advice or a full analysis , but if Fitty essentially declared his honest reasons for loving a stock in which he is invested , and discloses that investment , letting others know he is biased , he 's probably ok , especially if he intends to hold it long term .
The top long-term capital gains tax rate will rise to 20 % effective 1 Jan , 2011 , unless Congress decides to do something about it before then . ( Will they ? Who knows !! There 's been talk about it , but , well , it 's Congress . They do n't even know what they 're going to do . ) Anyway . The rules about when you can sell stock are mostly concerned with when you can realize a capital loss : if you sell a stock at a loss and then re-buy it for tax purposes within 30 days , it 's a wash sale and not eligible for a deduction . However , I do n't believe this applies to any stocks once you realize a gain - once you 've realized the gain and paid your tax for it , it 's all yours , locked in at whatever rate . Your replacement stock will be subject to short-term capital gains for the next year afterwards , and you might need to be careful with identifying the holding period on different lots of your stock , but I do n't believe there will be any particular trouble . Please do not rely entirely on my advice and consult also with your tax preparer or lawyer . :) And the IRS documentation : <URL> Special Addendum for Nov/Dec 2012 ! Spoiler alert ! Congress did indeed act : they extended the rates , but only temporarily , so now we 're looking at tax hikes starting in 2013 instead , only the new top rate + + will be something like 23.8 % on account of an extra 3.8 % medicare tax on passive earnings ( brought to you via Obamacare legislation ) . But the year and the rates ' specifics aside , same thing still applies . And the Republican house and Democratic senate/President are still duking it out . Have fun . + + 3.8 % surtax applies to the lesser of ( a ) net investment income ( b ) income over $ 200,000 ( $ 250k if married ) . 20 % tax rate applies to people in the 15 % income tax bracket for ordinary income or higher . Additional tax discounts for property held over 5 years may be available . Consult tax law and your favorite tax professional and prepare to be confused .
Here are three sites I can recommend : <URL> This is annualised data put out by the US Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service and is n't too bad ; <URL> This is a commercial service which can supply a currency instream but also provides historical data and a fair amount of info available free from the site . <URL> This is my favourite site for global data sourcing . You sometimes have to hunt a bit but this search brought up quite a bit and you may find what you 're looking for directly .
Check out ycharts.com , here is an example of GS <URL>
You can open a <URL> , here 's an example . You can deposit up to 50K ( including the personal cap and the profit sharing/matching portion ) .
This is a case where a snapshot of the quote page would make good sense . As you can see , even though I tried to choose a range of strikes that were active , around the current price , the volume is n't really impressive . One option at $ 6 is a $ 600 trade , so even the 40 volume is less than $ 40K dollars . With little volume the bid/ask can easily go stale . If it 's the ' last ' that you are focusing on , it could very easily have been a trade early in the day . If I understand your question correctly , the answer is , " if you got a current bid/ask for a series of strikes , indeed they would cluster around the theoretical nice curve you expect . I believe the bid/ask would straddle the line very neatly . But at any moment , the last sale or the stale bid/ask wo n't reflect that curve . If you see a bid/ask that looks advantageous and try to place a real order the bid/ask will quickly update to reflect reality . "
When over the long term housing costs in a area rise faster than wages rise , the demographic of who lives in the area changes . The size and income parameters change . A region that was full of young singles is now populated with couples with adult children , that means that the businesses and amenities have to change . At a national level it is n't sustainable unless other items change . The portion of monthly income that can be safely allocated to housing would have to change . One adjustment could be the the lengthening of home loan periods , thus dropping the monthly payment . This has been seen with car loans , over the last few decades the length of loans has increased . In interesting related event could be the change in deduction of mortgage interest and property tax . If this was to change abruptly , there could be an abrupt change the estimated value of housing , because the calculus of affordability would change .
You can use google docs to create a spreadsheet . In field A2 , I put Google will load the prices into the sheet . At that point , I add the following into C12 , then copy that line all the way down to the botton of column C . You can find my spreadsheet <URL> . It calculates the moving 10 day standard deviation as a percentage of average price for that time period .
Sure ! Anything that affects the balance of supply and demand could cause rent prices to fall . I 'll betcha rent prices in Wilmington , Ohio collapsed when the biggest employer , DHL , <URL> . An economic depression of any sort would cause people to substitute expensive rentals for cheaper ones , putting downward pressure on rents . It would also cause people to double up or move in with family , decreasing demand for rentals . Anything that makes buying a house cheaper will actually make rents lower , too , because more people will buy houses when houses get cheaper ... those people are moving out of rentals , thus decreasing demand for rentals .
Is it possible to pay off my balance more than once in a payment period in order to increase the amount I can spend in a payment period ? Yes you can pay off the balance more than once even if its not due . This will get applied to outstanding and you will be able to spend again . If so , is there a reason not to do this ? There is no harm . However note that it generally takes 2-3 days for the credit to be applied to the card . Hence factor this in before you make new purchases . I just got a credit card to start rebuilding my credit . Spending close to you credit limit does not help much ; compared to spending less than 10 % of your credit limit . So the sooner you get your limit on card increased the better .
Yes , even though interest might be tax free , a capital gain or loss on sale of the fund is taxable .
These amounts should appear in the W2 as imported by Turbo Tax . You should be able to go to the " Income " section , and check the W2 as imported there . It should match . If it does n't - correct it . ESPP-related entry on box 14 in W2 does n't appear on your 1040 as is , instead it affects the calculations on your Schedule D . It should appear as adjustment to basis for the corresponding sales of the ESPP shares .
What you did is called a " strangle . " It 's rather unlikely that both will be exercised on the same day . But yes , it can happen . That is if the market is very volatile on a given day , so that the stock hits 13 in the morning , the put gets exercised , and then hits 15 later in the day , so the call gets exercised . Or vice versa . More to the point , the prices are close enough that one might be hit on one day , and the other on a DIFFERENT day . In either case , if one side gets hit , you need to reevaluate your position in the other . But basically , any open position you have can be hit at any time . The only way to avoid this risk is not to have positions .
end question
start question
What is a rule of thumb for accruing debt on a rental property ?
To start , I hope you are aware that the properties ' basis gets stepped up to market value on inheritance . The new basis is the start for the depreciation that must be applied each year after being placed in service as rental units . This is not optional . Upon selling the units , depreciation is recaptured whether it 's taken each year or not . There is no rule of thumb for such matters . Some owners would simply collect the rent , keep a reserve for expenses or empty units , and pocket the difference . Others would refinance to take cash out and leverage to buy more property . The banker is not your friend , by the way . He is a salesman looking to get his cut . The market has had a good recent run , doubling from its lows . Right now , I 'm not rushing to prepay my 3.5 % mortgage sooner than it 's due , nor am I looking to pull out $ 500K to throw into the market . Your proposal may very well work if the market sees a return higher than the mortgage rate . On the flip side I 'm compelled to ask - if the market drops 40 % right after you buy in , will you lose sleep ? And a fellow poster ( @littleadv ) is whispering to me - ask a pro if the tax on a rental mortgage is still deductible when used for other purposes , e.g. a stock purchase unrelated to the properties . Last , there are those who suggest that if you want to keep investing in real estate , leverage is fine as long as the numbers work . From the scenario you described , you plan to leverage into an already pretty high ( in terms of PE10 ) and simply magnifying your risk .
They will include the rental income into the calculation . They do n't give you a 100 % credit for the income because they have to factor that you might have a gap between tenants . Years ago they only credited me with 66 % of the expected monthly income . Example : $ 600 Principal , Interest , Taxes , Insurance , Condo Fee $ 400 Rent credit ( 2/3 of the $ 600 in rent I charged the tenant ) Resulting in an expected loss of $ 200 a month . This expense was then supposed to come from the 10 % of my income that was allocated for monthly non-principal mortgage loans , e.g student loan , auto loan , credit card debt ...
Given the context , I 'd imagine you need to give at least 24 hours notice of viewings so that the landlord can inform the tenant ( probably due to a clause in the lease )
Yes they can , but not a part of the mortgage but the whole remaining sum . I am not so sure about loans , but I would believe they also might have the same . This is from Halifax - > In some circumstances ( normally where you break our agreement ) we may require you to pay off everything you charge , and there are a number of steps we can take , such as taking possession of your property and selling or
Well , in math terms , it 's the reciprocal . A 20 % drop ( 80 % of original value ) needs a 25 % increase to break even . .8 and 1.25 are reciprocals .
The debt is absolutely real . China loans money to US via buying the US treasury bonds . The bond is essentially a promise to pay back the money with interest , just like a loan . As you point out , the US can print money . If this were to happen , then the USD that the owner of a treasury bond receives when the bond matures are worth less that than the USD used to purchase the bonds . There are lots of reasons why the US does n't want to print lots of money , so the purchaser of the bond is probably confident it wo n't happen . If for some reason they think it is possible , then they will want to cover that risk by only purchasing bonds that have a higher interest rate . The higher interest offsets the risk of the USD being worth less . Of course , there are lots more details , e.g. , the bonds themselves are bought and sold before maturity , but this is the basic idea .
Since you say you are a student , perhaps you should look carefully at the requirements for contributing to an IRA , whether Traditional or Roth . Unless Congress changed the law recently , one has to have earned income to contribute to an IRA . So if you were a teaching or research asssistant receiving W-2 wages while completing your Master 's degree , you are eligible , but if you had a fellowship you are not eligible ( unless you had other income , whether W-2 wages or self-employment income reported on Schedule C ) . The amount that one can contribute is the smaller of your earned income and $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for 50 and older people ) .
Box 1 on your w2 is gross pay minus pre-tax deductions , like 401k ( traditional 401ks , not Roth ) , so you are correct with that assumption . With that in mind , it was my experience that the bank only looked at gross pay from my previous two months of paychecks . Double check with a loan officer , but mortgage applications only take gross income into account so a deduction wo n't affect your dti . Also , mortgage apps usually assume that you can liquidate or borrow some large percentage of your 401k to add to your cash on hand for a down payment and closing costs . Something to keep in mind .
Beg , plead , whimper , and hope they take pity on you . Sorry , but there 's no way to force someone to take less than you legitimately owe them except to declare bankrupty , and even that may not do it . If they are n't interested in throwing away $ 3000 , your best bet really is to try to arrange a payment plan , or to get a loan from somewhere and pay that back over time . Of course either of those options is likely to cost you interest , but that 's what happens ... I wish I could say something else , but there really is n't any good news here .
The textbook answer would be " assets-liabilities + present discounted value of all future profit " . A&amp;L is usually simple ( if a company has an extra $ 1m in cash , it 's worth $ 1m more ; if it has an extra $ 1m in debt , it 's worth $ 1m less ) . If a company with ~ 0 assets and $ 50k in profit has a $ 1m valuation , then that implies that whoever makes that valuation ( wants to buy at that price ) really believes one of two things - either the future profit will be significantly larger than $ 50k ( say , it 's rapidly growing ) ; or the true worth of assets is much more - say , there 's some IP/code/patents / people that have low book value but some other company would pay $ 1m just to get that . The point is that valuation is subjective since the key numbers in the calculations are not perfectly known by anyone who does n't have a time machine , you can make estimates but the knowledge to make the estimates varies ( some buyers/sellers have extra information ) , and they can be influenced by those buyers/sellers ; e.g. for strategic acquisitions the value of company is significantly changed simply because someone claims they want to acquire it . And , $ 1m valuation for a company with $ 500m in profits is n't appropriate - it 's appropriate only if the profits are expected to drop to zero within a couple years ; a stagnant but stable company with $ 500m profits would be worth at least $ 5m and potentially much more .
There 's no rule of thumb -- people get ripped all of the time on trade-ins or when they sell cars to the dealer . I think with used car negotiations , demand for the car is more important than their cost . If you 're talking a 2007 Kia , there will be lots of room . If it 's a 2009 Honda , they wo n't even discuss price . In terms of negotiations , you 'll only get the best price if you 're willing to walk away at most dealers . I usually pick 2-3 candidate cars at different lots and show up on the last day of the month . If it 's busy , look at the wall and find the # 1 salesman and be a pain in the butt . Refuse to listen to the 4-square speil and walk away slowly if he does n't negotiate . When I was in high school , my dad almost ran over a car salesman who literally jumped out in front of the car as we were leaving . My dad got his price and signed the contract right in the car .
<URL> does a perfectly fine job of explaining it : The percentage difference in current yields of various classes of high-yield bonds ( often junk bonds ) compared against investment-grade corporate bonds , Treasury bonds or another benchmark bond measure . So ... if a lot of people are buying junk bonds ( i.e. reach [ ing ] for yield ) , those bonds ' prices go up ( due to supply-and-demand ) and their yields go down ( by definition ) , meaning the difference ( spread ) between investment-grade bond yields ( which have presumably not changed ) and junk bond yields is reduced ( compressed ) . Therefore , the compression in the yield spread means that a lot of people are so hungry for high returns that they 're ignoring the high risk of junk bonds and buying them anyway .
It depends on how much equity you have in your home . Scenario 1 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 100K ( or more which means you are underwater . ) In this case you ca n't get a 2nd mortgage because : It 's not legal to use the same collateral ( e.g. some or all of your house ) for multiple loans without all parties knowing about it . If you let the parties know , then whoever is not first in line to receive the collateral certainly wo n't agree to it , since the collateral is not yours to use . ( The existing mortgage would already have legal claim to it . ) You could n't do it even if you tried because any real bank will do a title search to discover if you are trying to do this , before giving you any money . That being said , you can use different portions of equity in your home as collateral for multiple mortgages , as long as none of the equity overlaps , but you may need permission from the primary mortgage bank first , for example : Scenario 2 : Your home is worth $ 100K , and your current mortgage is for $ 80K meaning you currently have $ 20K in equity . It is possible to get a 2nd mortgage or home equity line of credit for $ 20K . As a side note , if your loan agent is telling you to use a different bank , it sounds like she is trying ( and willing ) to do something shady . If you are in Scenario 1 , I 'd find a new agent .
First , the usual caveat applies : consult a tax professional with experience in these matters . That being said , the term you 're looking for is a <URL> . The 60/40 rule applies to any contract that falls under this designation , which includes Regulated futures contracts Foreign currency contracts Nonequity options Dealer equity options Dealer securities futures contracts Futures options ( on commodities , indexes , etc. ) would fall under the " nonequity option " category , which is any listed option ( defined later ) that is not an equity option . Nonequity options include debt options , commodity futures options , currency options , and broad-based stock index options . A broad-based stock index is based on the value of a group of diversified stocks or securities ( such as the Standard and Poor 's 500 index ) .
Simple google search <URL> : 6-20 % Limitation -- The rule that assessments of Class 1 parcels may not increase more than 6 % in a current year , or more than 20 % over a five-year period . There is a similar rule for class 2 , called the " 8-30 % limitation " . What it means is that the assessed value can not increase more than 6 % a year , even if the real market value did . For long term holdings this accumulates to quite a difference , as you 've noticed .
The most basic way of determining whether a specific fund is a dud or not is to compare it to a correponding ETF or index . For example , if you are invested in an emerging market fund , compare your results to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ( EEM ) . If you are not getting the same return over time , or are incurring significantly more risk , I would question the value of staying in that particular fund .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
Check out some <URL> compared : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( this book gets a rave review in the question George Marian linked to ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Note that all these portfolios are loosely based on <URL> , a theory of how to maximize reward given a risk tolerance introduced by <URL> . The theory behind the <URL> and the <URL> ( <URL> ) is that you can make money by rebalancing once a year or less . You can take a look at <URL> to see other lazy allocation percentages . One big thing to remember - the expense ratio of the funds you invest in is a major contributor to the return you get . If they 're taking 1 % of all of your gains , you 're not . If they 're only taking .2 % , that 's an automatic .8 % you get . The reason Vanguard is so often used in these model portfolios is that they have the lowest expense ratios around . If you are talking about an IRA or a mutual fund account where you get to choose who you go with ( as opposed to a 401K with company match ) , conventional wisdom says go with Vanguard for the lowest expense ratios .
You ca n't insure for more than the financial cost of the event that you 're insuring against , but that can be more than the current market value of the item . If you 'd need to buy a new one , then that 's your financial loss . New-for-old cover is common for property insurance .
You should read into the local and Federal laws that concern these kinds of sales . Potential pitfalls that I know of ( there are probably much more ) : In many states , these " auctions " are rather random , and you ca n't chose the property you buy . Owners may repay the taxes , in which cases ( depending on the local laws ) you may have to give up the property back to the owner . You 'll have to foreclose on the property to get full ownership on it . There may be time limitations as to what and when you can do ( for example , I know that in some states you have to wait for a certain period of time before you 're allowed to foreclose , several years ) . Auctions in general mean : Many times you can not inspect the property prior to purchase . You have to pay very quickly ( and to decide very quickly ) . You will probably have to invest significantly in rehab and repairs before reselling . You might not get a title insurance
end question
start question
How do day-traders or frequent traders handle their taxes ?
There are two ways to handle this . The first is that the better brokers , such as Charles Schwab , will produce summaries of your gains and losses ( using historical cost information ) , as well as your trades , on a monthly and annual basis . These summaries are " ready made " for the IRS . More brokers will provide these summaries come 2011 . The second is that if you are a " frequent trader " ( see IRS rulings for what constitutes one ) , then they 'll allow you to use the net worth method of accounting . That is , you take the account balance at the end of the year , subtract the beginning balance , adjust the value up for withdrawals and down for infusions , and the summary is your gain or loss . A third way is to do all your trading in say , an IRA , which is taxed on distribution , not on stock sales .
The calculators on this site should help : <URL> They allow you to choose a currency ( only about half a dozen are available ) , enter an amount and the years to compare , and then provides feedback in a table . Obviously you will need to be careful which calculator you choose . If they do n't cover the currencies you are dealing with , see this site : <URL> They provide numerous links that , while they do n't provide sleek calculators per se , they do offer guidance on how to handle conversions yourself . Regarding comparing the cost to something like gold , to try and help younger readers , I think it 's a good idea but gold is not the ideal choice for comparison . I 'd recommend something more tangible like household goods - what a Playstation would have cost in 1930s money etc. . In short : the value of gold is esoteric even for most adults - concrete examples would be better .
If your dad would have won money on the slot machines ( And the amount was high ) , the casino would have given him a W2G to fill out right there and taxes would have been deducted . However , table games including Poker does not have any such rule . You will have to account for your winnings ( And losses ) at the end of the year . So , it is ok if you sign that paper , as you do not owe the IRS any money yet . You will still need to file your taxes as a non resident alien at the end of the year and attach the form W2G with it and pay your dues .
No . As a rule , the dividends you see in the distribution table are what you 'll receive before paying any taxes . Tax rates differ between <URL> and unqualified/ordinary dividends , so the distribution ca n't include taxes because tax rates may differ between investors . In my case I hold it in an Israeli account but the tax treaty between our countries still specifies 25 % withheld tax This is another example of why tax rates differ between investors . If I hold SPY too , my tax rate will be very different because I do n't hold it in an account like yours , so the listed dividend could n't include taxes .
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
Mutual funds do n't pay taxes themselves , they distribute any dividends or capital gains to the shareholders . Thus , if you hold a mutual fund in a tax-advantaged account like a 401k or IRA then the distribution is n't a taxable event while in a regular taxable account you would have to pay taxes on the distributions . From <URL> : Funds are pass-throughs . If they profit from capital gains , interest or dividends , they are compelled to pass those profits through to you as distributions . You must pay tax on the distributions . You owe the same tax whether you do or do n't reinvest in more fund shares . There can be foreign companies on US stock exchanges that would still work the same way . Unilever for example is an Anglo-Dutch multinational listed on the NYSE as " UN . "
I 'd first put it in CDs or other short term account . Get through school first , then see where you land . If you have income that allows you to start a Roth IRA , I 'd go for that , but keep it safe in case you actually need it back soon . After school , if you do n't land a decent job fast , this money might be needed to live on . How long will it last if you take a few months to find work ? If you do find a good job , moving , and setting up an apartment has a cost . Once you 're there , I 'd refer you to the many " getting started " Q&amp;A s on this site .
who computes the S&amp;P 500 ? <URL> . Why are they sharing this information and Because that 's what they do . This is a financial research company . how do they recuperate the costs inherent in computing the S&amp;P 500 ? By charging clients for other information . The computing of the index itself is not all that complicated , its coming up with the index that 's a problem . Once they 've come up with the formula , and it became widely accepted , the computation itself is not an issue . But the fact that its so popular leads to the S&amp;P brand recognition , and people come and pay good money for their other services ( ratings and financial analysis of securities ) . They do more work for free . For example , the ratings of various government debts are being done by S&amp;P for free ( governments do n't pay for that ) , while private bonds are rated for a fee ( corporations pay to have their bonds rated ) . Also , as noted by JBKing , there are probably some licensing fees for using the index name in the fund name ( and other users are probably paying the licensing fee , like the news agencies and the exchanges ) . <URL> , and as such can not be used without the owner 's permission . Why is then " active management " not required for indexed funds Because no research and stock picking is required . In fact , these funds do n't really require a manager , they can be managed by a simple script . and how does it lower taxes ? ( perhaps this could be a different question if this has become too broad ) Actively managed funds perform a lot more buy/sell operations , each leading to tax consequences to the fund ( which rolls them over to the investors ) . Index funds only buy and sell to re-balance back to the index ( or when the makeup of the index changes , usually once a year or half a year ) , leading to much lesser realized capital gains to the fund , thus much lesser tax consequences .
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
I strongly recommend that you talk to an accountant right away because you could save some money by making a tax payment by January 15 , 2014 . You will receive Forms 1099-MISC from the various entities with whom you are doing business as a contractor detailing how much money they paid you . A copy will go to the IRS also . You file a Schedule C with your Form 1040 in which you detail how much you received on the 1099-MISC forms as well as any other income that your contracting business received ( e.g. amounts less than $ 600 for which a 1099-MISc does not need to be issued , or tips , say , if you are a taxi-driver running your own cab ) , and you can deduct various expenses that you incurred in generating this income , including tools , books , ( or gasoline ! ) etc that you bought for doing the job . You will need to file a Schedule SE that will compute how much you owe in Social Security and Medicare taxes on the net income on Schedule C . You will pay at twice the rate that employees pay because you get to pay not only the employee 's share but also the employer 's share . At least , you will not have to pay income tax on the employer 's share . Your net income on Schedule C will transfer onto Form 1040 where you will compute how much income tax you owe , and then add on the Social Security tax etc to compute a final amount of tax to be paid . You will have to pay a penalty for not making tax payments every quarter during 2013 , plus interest on the tax paid late . Send the IRS a check for the total . If you talk to an accountant right away , he/she will likely be able to come up with a rough estimate of what you might owe , and sending in that amount by January 15 will save some money . The accountant can also help you set up for the 2014 tax year during which you could make quarterly payments of estimated tax for 2014 and avoid the penalties and interest referred to above .
You probably do need an IRS form . Reason being that a US payer must withhold 30 % of the payment to you as income tax and remit it to the IRS . You 're then expected to file a refund claim with the IRS to get it back , unless your own country will let you deduct it from your local tax liability ( and even that only if your local tax liability on that money is at least 30 % ) . You do n't have to , of course , but then you 're losing your money to the benefit of the US debt reduction . In addition , <URL> , which may limit or even eliminate that withholding altogether . In order to claim your treaty benefit you must submit form <URL> to your employer , and specify the treaty and the article of the treaty on lines 9 and 10 . I suggest you find a CPA who is US-licensed and works in Australia or with Australians to help you with this . Dealing with the treaty may be problematic if you do n't know what you 're doing . I 'm pretty sure a professional adviser who deals with your type of clients will be able to help you quickly and inexpensively . American taxes are more horrific than any horror movie you 've ever seen . Welcome to our world . We deal with the IRS so often that some of us even consider it being the normal way of things ...
You would simply plan for misc . expenses in your budget , and allocate a small amount to this every time you do your budget , eventually building up a pool of money that you can then use whenever you have to make a purchase such as that .
In short as Victor mentioned , the rates for a pair of currency vary from Bank to Bank . Banks also give special rates if the amount to be converted is large . Unless you are receiving large amounts , hopping / shopping will not help . If you are getting paid in USD , i.e. that is what is agreed between you and your client , then the client 's bank would be doing the conversion . You are your Bank have no say in this . If you have agreed to get paid in the local currency of your client , then depending on the currency it may still get converted by the sending Bank or in-between . Say for example you are to get paid in Indonesian Rupiah IDR , the client 's Bank or its Correspondent would convert this into USD as IDR does n't get settled . If you are getting say GBP or EUR , then yes the conversion would typically be done by your bank . However it typically takes 2-4 days SWIFT Wire transfers , i.e. from the time your client initiates the transfers to the time it reaches your Bank . And no you ca n't go shopping after the Wire has arrived . If you want to do it before then unless the amounts involved are large , no Bank would commit a rate to you .
Public companies in the US are supposed to follow accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) when publishing financial statements . These standards require that assets be valued at current market rates . During the 2008 financial crisis , <URL> pressured Congress to pass legislation to suspend mark-to-market accounting since many banks were holding assets that had severely dropped in value after the crisis . Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ) which required the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) to <URL> " Alternative accounting standards to those provided in [ Financial Accounting Standards Board ] Statement Number 157 " . At the time the SEC decided not to suspend mark-to-market . However , the EESA reaffirmed that the SEC has the authority to suspend mark-to-market if they choose .
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
Mutual funds ( that are not exchange-traded funds ) often need to sell some of their securities to get cash when a shareholder redeems some shares . Such transactions incur costs that are paid ( proportionally ) by all the shareholders in the fund , not just the person requesting redemption , and thus the remaining shareholders get a lower return . ( Exchange-traded funds are traded as if they are shares of common stock , and a shareholder seeking a redemption pays the costs of the redemption ) . For this reason , many mutual funds do not allow redemptions for some period of time after a purchase , or purchases for some period of time after a redemption . The periods of time are chosen by the fund , and are stated in the prospectus ( which everyone has acknowledged has been received before an investment was made ) .
Seek professional advice as duffbeer703 has suggested already . Very important ! Consider incorporating . If your income will fluctuate year to year , you can keep profit in the corporation , taxed in its hands at the Canadian small business rate , since such corporate income below $ 500,000 would likely qualify for the small business deduction . You could pay retained earnings to yourself as dividends over more than one year in order to lessen the personal tax burden . If you do n't incorporate , all your profits in the year they are earned are taxed at personal income tax rates , and with our progressive income tax system , taking the tax hit all in one year can be expensive . However , if this project is a one-off and you 're not likely to continue working like this , you might not want the overhead of a corporation . Taxes aside , there are also legal issues to consider vis-a-vis incorporating , or not . A professional can help you make this decision . Yes , you can claim deductions for reasonable business expenses , whether or not you are incorporated . No , you ca n't do free work on the side and claim it as donations . It 's nice to volunteer , but you would n't get a charitable tax credit for your time , only for money or goods donated . Consider opening an RRSP so you can start saving for retirement and get a tax deduction for any contributions you make . This is but one strategy to reduce your tax . There are others . For instance , if you are a student , you perhaps have some unused tuition credits that you could claim in your first year with higher income . Oh , and seek professional advice ! ;-)
You pay taxes on capital gains when you realize your gains by selling the investment property . Also , in the US , taxes on capital gains are computed at special rates depending on your current income level , and so when you realize your gains two years from now , you will pay taxes on the gains at the special rate then applicable to your income level for the year of sale . Remember also that the US Congress can change the tax laws at any time between now and the time you sell your stocks , and so the rates you are looking at now may have changed too .
You do n't generally pay capital gains taxes until you sell the stock . If you bought it in 2013 and the price goes up in 2014 but you just hold on to the stock , you wo n't have to pay any taxes on it . If you then sold it in 2015 for a profit , you 'd have to pay capital gains taxes on the profit . Note that this excludes dividends . Dividends may complicate the matter somewhat . I 'm also assuming you are in the U.S. or Canada , or a country like one of those two . It 's possible some other country does taxes differently , though it 'd surprise me .
The money gets sent to the IRS through the <URL> system . Depending on the amounts , the employers are required to deposit it on a <URL> , so they do n't get to keep the tax money for long . Failure to deposit the payroll taxes on time is one of the most heavily penalized IRS offenses . This area of violations is called " <URL> " . It is one of the very few areas in which employees may be liable for corporate misdoings ( i.e. : an HR or accounting manager responsible for payroll may be personally liable for trust fund violations ) .
end question
start question
Did Capital One ever start reporting credit limits to the Credit Agencies for Credit card accounts ?
Yes , they did stop the practice in 2007 . See this article from the Seattle Times for reference : <URL>
After doing some investigating , my employers contract with the credit card company has a clause that basically specifies that despite my name being on the credit card , and bills being sent to me , all liability is on the company . Additionally , the employer reserves the right to garnish wages in the event of a balance on the card . So it looks like it wo n't affect my credit score . I appreciate all of the advice .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
A debit card takes the funds right from your account . There 's no ' credit ' issued along the way . The credit card facilitates a short term loan . If you are a pay-in-full customer , as I am , there 's a cost to lend the money , but we 're not paying it . It 's part of the fee charged to the merchant . Thus the higher transaction cost .
We use the PC financial credit card . We switched to PC banking about 8 years ago and have been extremely happy with them . You get points for using their banking services and if you use their credit card you earn points . You can use the points earned for free groceries or purchasing anything at No Frills , Independant and Loblawas Superstores . With the points we 've earned over the years through just our regular banking , we 've purchased a 6 piece patio set , patio swing , tons of free groceries and currently have $ 500 worth of points that we 're using to purchase food and gifts for the Christmas season . You can find out the particulars on their points program throught their webiste at www.pcfinancial.ca
Not simply by applying for more cards , but rather by being approved for credit cards . In fact , too many declined credit applications can hurt your credit score . I 'm not certain of the details , but some activity is also necessary . Not using your lines of credit can be seen as a detrimental factor . I assume they are trying to guard against being gamed . So , having a bunch of unused lines of credit is not necessarily good . Finally , having too many open lines of credit ( for some definition of " too many " ) can also be a bad thing , though I 'm not sure if this effects your credit score or is simply used as a reason by some issuers to decline your application .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
This very much depends how you use that second line of credit and what your current credit is . If you max it out and then do not pay then it will hurt your credit . If you max it out and pay the minimum but currently have a low credit score it will help . If you already have a 700 + rating then it will hurt it . If you Never use it then it will have little impact on your rating but could cause problems if your available credit exceeds 50 % of your income . If you use it regularly but pay it off every month then it should improve your credit rating . There are of course many more combinations buy you can probably infer the impact based on these cases . Your credit score is based on your likely hood of being profitable to a creditor should they issue you credit . This is based on your history of your ability to manage your credit . Having more credit and managing it well shows that you have a history of being responsible with greater sums of money available . If you use the card responsibly now then you are more likely to continue that trend than someone with a history of irresponsibility . Having a line but not using it is not a good thing . It costs the creditor money for you to have an account . If you never use that account then you are not showing that you can use the account responsibly so if you are just going to throw the card in a safe and never access it then you are better off not getting the card in the first place .
If you have an AMEX from another country , you can get an AMEX in the US . American Express has a separate system that is not as strongly country-dependent as , say , VISA and MasterCard . Equifax operates in both Canada and the United States , so if you 're from Canada you can ask the bank to get your credit score through Equifax . Not a lot of people know about this but it can be done , so be persistent if they say it ca n't . This may be possible with other credit reporting agencies as well . If you have proof of income and some cash , most banks will let you get a card . They let teenagers with no credit get a card !
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
New legislation in the US aims to protect young borrowers . ( Just what you were hoping ! ) See Title III <URL> . My understanding of the new law is that individuals 18 to 20 years old applying for a credit card are required to either 1 ) have a parent/guardian co-sign , 2 ) prove they could independently repay the credit being offered , or 3 ) take a special financial education course for young consumers . It also requires parent ( or legal guardian , spouse , etc ) approval for a credit limit increase on a card that is co-signed by that parent , etc. .
Do n't cancel a card then apply for a new one from the same place . Ask The bank if you can switch to a different card program . If you are a good customer they will do so willingly . It keeps your account as an active customer . I have noticed that in the last few years the bank has been adamant that I should witch to a different program . When it is to my advantage I have done so . The only thing that changes is the words on the card , account number , expiration date and security code . There is no hit to my credit score . In fact with all the data breaches in the last few years every one of my card has undergone an account number change anyway .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
Reward cards are for people who can demonstrate to the lender that paying them the rewards is " worth it " , and the lender comes ahead in the end . Let me step back from just answering your question and understand what you are trying to do . First , stop doing what you are doing right now . No further applications as you have reduced your chances of getting unsecured credit by having a lot of hard hits to your report . I assume you have a SSN , and in that case what you are doing is digging a deep hole to put yourself into the next year unless you have a job at hand ( to justify a debt-income ratio that a lender will look at before approval ) . Read this and ask questions : <URL> Tell us more about your background : esp . if you have a job , how much credit you are seeking and what made you decide applying for rewards cards was a good idea to begin with . Updated after OPs edit : Your question has been answered already : the answer being " Yes " . I trust the answer and the person behind it . However , I know where you are coming from , and what you should focus on is establish a strong foundation for your credit . In that light you should n't be asking about rewards card . Rewards will come ( I am told ) but the time 's not now . The reason is embedded in your own edit : For the record , I 'm an incoming PhD student on a fellowship with an expected annual income of $ 30k for the next 5 years . I wanted to apply for reward cards since some of them were available and I wanted to try them out ( but I 'm ignorant of the bigger picture as I know little about credit cards ) The lenders have no metric about your expected annual income : they can see the data in a W2 , in a 1040 or similar . Anything else is up for speculation ; even your expected salary on a contract : if your project gets shelved or your advisor gets fired , you no longer have the money . If the lender gives you a line of credit you are then likely to use it up and then have a hard time paying it back . Establish strong foundation for your credit , focus your efforts there for now . If you have done less than 3 apps recently , see if you get a secured credit card . If you do n't get approved , it looks like you can have your parents to help you out ? Add yourself as an authorized user to a BofA card they own . I know BofA reports the authorized users on their cards . You can try a student credit union : I use <URL> . They rock . The fact that my professors also have accounts there and I often go in with them when I have a favor to ask from the CU might bias my feedback , so do your own research . You are a smart guy , put that brain to use :-D Best of luck !
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
Once the discharge order is issued , you can not reaffirm a debt . Lawyers will often advise you to not reaffirm debts like mortgages for you to avoid personal liability for the mortgage . Right now , you 're in an interesting grey area , since the bank probably can not foreclose on the basis of your failure to reaffirm ( laches doctrine ) -- but you do not benefit ( from a credit point of view ) from making timely payments . You also do not have an obligation to pay .
Assuming I pay them down completely , and then destroy the card or account , what 's the catch ? For you it is not so good because it will grow your credit report enormously . It will also affect the score : each new account opened , each new inquiry - reduce your score . The more of those and the more frequent they are - the deeper the dip . So the promoters know ( assume , rather ) that you would not do that , as it will harm you ( in short term ) and eventually will drive you out of the range that they accept . At some point if you continue doing this - you will no longer be approved . It seems to me those companies are betting me that I 'll lose self control and use their cards . Not necessarily . It is not in your best interest to get the card and then cancel it , so this means that a rational person will not cut up the card so quickly ( especially if it 's a no-fee card ) , and since it stays in the wallet it is likely to be used . For the reward cards that do have fees , they add benefits to compensate you for these fees . For example , airline cards allow getting free/heavily discounted tickets , free luggage , free lounge access etc. . You might want to consider keeping the card for these benefits despite the fees , and the benefits are virtually no-cost to provide . So again , they make you keep the card and since you already have it - it will occasionally be used . If you lose control and use it extensively , they 'll benefit from the interest . If not - they 'll just get the charge fees . Either way , they 'll earn something . Is that all there is to it , or is there some sort of security behind the scenes ( credit report ? ) preventing me from exploiting all the rewards I can ? As I said , doing this too often will lead to the credit card issuers to not approve your applications . Also , many times the sign-up bonuses are for new clients , which means you can not be an existing client , and also an ex-client who recently left them ( IIRC usually they look back at least 6 months in these cases ) . There are not so many card issuers , so you may find yourself blacked out by the virtue of being too recent ex-customer and thus not eligible .
I believe it 's just to limit the less well-off from acquiring one . If your credit history and income do not support a $ 15,000 credit limit , then do n't even think about applying for an Altitude Black card . If they do , then do n't bother with a student card . It 's primarily about market segmentation by wealth or income .
These do exist in the US ; I 've personally used them in the past through a Citi credit card . Wikipedia has some info that seems to fit : <URL> A controlled payment number ( a trademark of Orbiscom [ 1 ] ) , also called by generic names substitute credit card number , one-time use credit card , disposable credit card and virtual credit card number ) is an alias for a credit card number . It is generated through the use of either a Web application or a specialized client program , interacting with the card issuer 's computer , and is linked to the actual credit card number . Typically , a controlled payment number has a limit , and an expiration date between two and twelve months from the issue date , both chosen by the account owner , and while it can usually be set up to allow multiple transactions , it can only be used with a single merchant . This " alias " number is indistinguishable from an ordinary credit card number , and the user 's actual credit card number is never revealed to the merchant . Consequently if it is compromised a fraudulent user can usually not steal money , and the limit reduces how much a dishonest merchant can steal . The system was developed by Orbiscom , a Dublin-based payment processing company which was acquired by Mastercard in January 2009 and in parallel by Cyota Inc. [ 2 ] It is used by a number of credit card issuers . In the USA , these include Bank of America ( which inherited its system , " ShopSafe , " when it acquired MBNA ) , Citibank ( " Virtual Account Numbers " ) , Discover Card 's Secure Online Account Numbers and NetSpend 's " virtual accounts " . Examples from other countries are MBnet , which can create a payment number linked to virtually any credit or debit card emitted in Portugal .
end question
start question
W-4 : Is the " Estimate of State and Local Taxes " just for myself , or for me and my spouse ?
Keep in mind , the W4 will get you to an accuracy of one exemption , i.e. the tax you 'll pay or not pay , on $ 3800 . So , for a 25 % marginal rate taxpayer , you can get as close as $ 950 , but would need to tinker a bit to get closer . You say you had too much withheld . I suggest you take to amount of your refund , divide by 1000 and just bump your exemptions by that much . ( If you are in the 15 % bracket , the exemption will reduce withholding by about $ 570 , so divide that refund by $ 600 and up your exemptions by that much . ) As simple at it tries to be , the W4 is more complicated than necessary . For those who need a simple tweak , this method works fine .
April 18 is the deadline to either e-file your taxes or postmark your mailed copy , or to file an extension request ( in which case you have until October ) . ( This assumes you are a US resident ; if you 're a non-resident citizen , you may have a different , later deadline . ) <URL> Your return is considered filed timely if the envelope is properly addressed and postmarked by the due date . Whether or not you submit an extension request , you must submit your payment similarly by April 18th ( mail it or e-send it ) in order to avoid penalties . Even if you file for an extension , you must send money equal to what you expect to owe approximately in order to avoid underpayment penalties . When you owe a balance - You may pay any balance you owe via Direct Pay . Alternatively , you may enclose a check or money order with your paper return or , if you filed electronically , with the 2015 Form 1040-V ( PDF ) , Payment Voucher And You will owe interest on any past-due tax and you may be subject to a late-payment penalty if the payment of tax is not made by the original due date of your return . You will not get a physical bill , unless you fail to pay your owed taxes , in which case you will eventually get the collections department coming after you as with any other unpaid bill . See <URL> If you are not able to pay the tax you owe by your original filing due date , the balance is subject to interest and a monthly late payment penalty . There is also a penalty for failure to file a tax return , so you should file timely even if you can not pay your balance in full . It is always in your best interest to pay in full as soon as you can to minimize the additional charges .
Money you need in less than 5 years should be saved not invested . The only place I would be comfortable the money would be a money market account or Certificate of Deposit ( CD ) . I usually go for the money market account because they pay at or close to CD rates and there are no restrictions on getting to the money . However in this case I might choose a CD to keep me from being tempted to borrow some of it for something else . But even after typing that I still think I would put it in a money market , because if interest rates rise they rise in the money market but not the CD , and I just do n't think interest can go much lower .
A simplistic answer would be that it 's a multiplier on how much money per paycheck to subtract from your tax withholding ( taxes per paycheck ) , then at the end of the year you will have paid taxes on your income minus the amount of your withholding allowances . If you get a decent ( roughly 3 % or more of your gross annual salary ) refund you are letting the government withhold too much ( and should increase your allowances ) , if you have to pay a decent amount of taxes at the end of the year then the amount withheld is not high enough ( and should decrease your allowances ) . I definitely recommend using the <URL> that Stephen Cleary mentions , but I think it 's just as easy to adjust it up or down by 1 or 2 each year based on whether you got a large refund , no refund , or paid taxes . If you are disciplined with your money many experts advise to increase withholding allowances , save the extra in a safe short term interest account so that you earn money on your money and not the government .
Yes , definitely . Many municipalities and local governments issue bonds to fund various projects ( schools , hospitals , infrastructure , etc ) . You can buy these bonds and in that way invest in these things . In the US these kinds of bonds are tax-free , i.e. : the income they provide is not taxed ( by the US government , may be taxed by your State , check local tax laws ) . There are also dedicated mutual funds that that is all they invest in , if you do n't want to deal with picking individual bonds . As to mom-and-pop stores - that would not be as easy , as mom-and-pop stores are by definition family owned and you can invest in them only if you are personally acquainted with them . Instead , you can invest in small regional/local chains , that while not being mom-and-pop , still small enough to be considered " local " , but are publicly traded so that you can easily invest in them . You 'll have to look for these . You can also use social lending platforms , like <URL> or others , where you can participate in a lending pool to other people . You can invest in a credit union by opening an account there . Credit unions are owned by their account holders .
You put your Michigan address . The incorporation address is of no concern for the IRS , they could n't care less where you 're incorporated - it has no effect on your tax liability . The address is used when audited , and the IRS expects you to give the address where the records are ( i.e. : where the business , aka you , is physically located ) .
Most states that have income tax base their taxes on the income reported on your federal return , with some state-specific adjustments . So answering your last question first : Yes , if it matters for federal , it will matter for state ( in most cases ) . For estimating the tax liability , I would not use the effective rate but rather use the rate for your highest tax bracket and apply that to your estimated hobby income , assuming that you primary job income wo n't be wildly higher or lower than last year . As @keshlam noted in a comment , this income is coming on top of whatever else you earn , so it will be taxed at your top rate . Finally , I 'd check again whether this is really " hobby " income or if it is " self-employment " income . Self-employment income will be subject to self-employment tax , which comes on top of the regular income tax .
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
If you do n't have the time or interest to manage investments , you need a financial advisor . Generally speaking , you 're better served by an advisor who collects an annual fee based on a percentage of your account value . Advisors who are compensated based on transactions have a vested interest to churn your account , which is often not in your best interest . You also need to be wary of advisors who peddle expensive mutual funds with sales loads ( aka kick-backs to the advisor ) or annuities . Your advisor 's compensation structure should be transparent as well .
Yes , your email address is your " PayPal " account . It 's what people use to send you money , and what you use to pay people .
Inflation gets a lot of press but people rarely stop to think about how they would measure inflation . Prices do not go up equally for all items in the market . Market prices are ever changing in response to supply , consumer demand , and money devaluation . New money printed by the Fed ( in the US ) may flow into one area of the economy and not affect other areas which would causes certain items to be more inflationary than others . As you mention , different people will have varying levels of exposure to the items that are inflating more rapidly than others . I may have a long commute to work so I 'm more exposed to rising prices in gas . You may live in a city and walk to work so gas prices do not affect you as much . I may be a vegetarian so I 'm not sensitive to meat , pork , and chicken prices . There are also lots of items that I never purchase that are used to calculate the inflation rate . Inflation is not as easy to measure as some think . The only way I know to measure a personal inflation rate would be to track your expenses every month ( by unit - $ per 16 oz of bread , $ per gallon of gas , etc. ) . If you see your personal inflation rate rising faster than the government rate then you know you are more exposed to inflation ( at least according to the government 's way of measuring inflation - which uses <URL> , geometrically weighted averages , <URL> , and other political magic ) . In short , if your expenses do not match the CPI expense distribution ( see chart ) then you will not have the same level of exposure to the government reported inflation .
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
It 's safe to reveal the first and last four digits of your card number -- that 's not considered to be confidential data . And of course your broker already has your name , , so letting them have a scan of it does n't disclose any new information . You should make sure to obscure the CVV code ( the last three digits of the number on the back of the card ) .
I 'm a mathematician , not an accountant . But my feeling has been that the distinction between Asset and Liability is mainly a sign convention , and comes from a wish to avoid negative numbers . Suppose you take out a loan for $ 1000 and deposit the proceeds in your bank account . Under normal accounting conventions , your bank account is an Asset and the loan is a Liability . After the loan , Bank has a balance of 1000 and Loan has a balance of 1000 . You can compute your net worth by adding all Assets and subtracting all Liabilities ( so in this case your net worth remains 0 ) . If you treat Loan as an Asset account , then after taking out the loan , you should give it a balance of -1000 . Under this convention , you have lots of negative numbers to deal with everywhere , which I suspect early accountants would have found inconvenient . The Asset/Liability convention means you only need to deal with negative numbers in unusual situations ( overdrawn bank account , overpaid loan , etc ) . Likewise , in theory you could treat Expense accounts as negative Income . But I 'm not sure why you feel the need to reinvent the wheel by " simplifying " double-entry accounting like this . The standard conventions are not that complicated , and their major advantage is that they 're standard : other people will be able to understand your books if they ever need to . ( Say you want to hire somebody to do your taxes at some point : if your books are kept in your own idiosyncratic system , their job will be at best error-prone and at worst impossible . ) It 's a bit like a proposal to simplify English spelling : shur , a sistum waar yu rit lik this mit bee simplur in sum abstrakt sens , but if nobudee els can reed it eezulee , it izunt ackshyualee veree yusful .
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
From my friends at <URL> this is the 2012 tax table . This is the table of tax due on taxable income , i.e. the ' bottom line ' of the return after all deductions , credits , etc. . If your taxable income is exactly $ 35,350 , you are " in the 15 % bracket " as the last $ 100 was taxed at 15 % . But , the next $ 100 of income would be taxed at 25 % . Yes , part of the 401 ( k ) process is that you need to be aware of what the tax would have been on the pre-tax 401 ( k ) money . Since a Roth is post-tax money , it does n't change your bracket , only pre-tax 401 ( k ) or Traditional IRA will do that . At a taxable $ 50,000 , you are clearly in the 25 % bracket and would choose your account accordingly . You can see above , the way the tax structure works is progressive . i.e. . The tax on $ 35,350 is fixed at $ 4867.50 and only the amount above this is taxed at 25 % . The next $ 100 or $ 1000 in taxable income wo n't push other income into the higher bracket . Many use the strategy user102008 alluded to , navigating one 's retirement deposits so the pretax account saved them from 25 % income , but does n't drop too far into the 15 % bracket . A mix of Traditional 401 ( k ) , Roth 401 ( k ) , Traditional IRA , and Roth IRA , can help you hit the goal dead-on if you are willing to pay a bit of attention during the year .
Yes , this is a valid strategy . You 're not missing anything . In fact , you can only withdraw from the taxable source up to the RMD amounts and take all the rest from Roth , if you want .
These are two different ways of processing payments . They go through different systems many times , and are treated differently by the banks , credit card issuers and the stores . Merchants pay different fees on transactions paid by debit cards and by credit cards . Debit transactions require PIN , and are deducted from your bank account directly . In order to achieve that , the transaction has to reach the bank in real time , otherwise it will be declined . This means , that the merchant has to have a line of communications open to the relevant processor , that in turn has to be able to connect to the bank and get the authorization - all that while on-line . The bank verifies the PIN , authorizes the transaction , and deducts the amount from your account , while you 're still at the counter . Many times these transactions can not be reversed , and the fraud protections and warranties are different from credit transactions . Credit transactions do n't have to go to your card issuer at all . The merchant can accept credit payment without calling anyone , and without getting prior authorizations . Even if the merchant sends the transaction for authorization with its processor , if the processor can not reach the issuing bank - they can still approve the transaction under certain conditions . This is , however , never true with debit cards ( even if used as " credit " ) . They 're not deducted from your bank account , but accumulated on your credit card account . They 're posted there when the actual transaction reaches the card issuer , which may be many days ( and even many months ) after the transaction took place . Credit transactions can be reversed ( in some cases very easily ) , and enjoy from a higher level of fraud protection . In some countries ( and most , if not all , of the EU ) fraudulent credit transactions are never the consumer 's problem , always the bank 's . Not so with debit transactions . Banks may be encouraging you to use debit for several reasons : They do n't share the risk ( see fraud protection differences ) They get to deduct the money right away , they may be paying the merchant later ( depending on the contract between the merchant and the processor ) Merchants will probably prefer credit because : They do n't have to maintain communication to processor at all times ( although now with the Internet connections , it is less of a problem than when they had to make a phone call on each card ) . They can accept payments over the Internet and over the phone . Consumers will probably be better off with credit because : Its better protected against fraud Easier to reverse transaction ( dispute ) Allows deferring the actual payment ( credit cards only ) Many credit cards offer rewards , very few debit cards do , and if they do - the rewards are much lower .
Dr. Sarwate 's answers the need for the W-8BEN , and that 's the answer you are looking for . However , the W-8BEN is only required if the US company is paying you directly ( i.e. you appear on the US company 's payroll accounts ) . This would be weird , in general , because US companies very quickly incorporate as a private entity in a foreign land . For example , I expect your " US Bank " to become a separate " US Bank India Private Limited " company in India and reap the various tax subsidies India offers to new companies being setup in India . I also expect you to get paid from and employed by " US Bank India Private Limited " instead of " US Bank " . In this general case , the requirement to fill the W-8BEN seems like a H.R. goof-up or paranoia . Yet , there could be some specific cases , where you , even as an employee of " US Bank India Private Limited " might get paid by " US Bank " . One of those specific cases could be bonuses . I came across this situation years ago when I got a monetary bonus for " Ship IT " and " Great People Great Performance " Awards and had to fill out the W-8BEN as the money was paid off a central fund in the U.S. account . In either case , filling out the W-8BEN seems to have been mandated by the H.R. and there is no US tax impact on you for filling it out . In case taxes are with-held , they would be in error , but you would have to do all the paperwork .
It appears that the <URL> in $ 6,500 as long as the combined income is greater than the total contributions for both spouses . Spousal IRAs If you file a joint return , you and your spouse can each make IRA contributions even if only one of you has taxable compensation . The amount of your combined contributions ca n't be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return . It does n't matter which spouse earned the compensation . Examples : Sarah , age 52 , is married with no taxable compensation for 2012 . She and her husband reported taxable compensation of $ 60,000 on their 2013 joint return . Sarah may contribute $ 6,500 to her IRA for 2013 ( $ 5,500 plus an additional $ 1,000 contribution for age 50 and over ) .
end question
start question
Why has the contribution limit for IRAs increased so much over the years ?
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
No . The electronic rejection did n't change the due date of your return and the following code sections still apply . <URL> - > <URL> ( 3 ) Time when contributions deemed made For purposes of this section , a taxpayer shall be deemed to have made a contribution to an individual retirement plan on the last day of the preceding taxable year if the contribution is made on account of such taxable year and is made not later than the time prescribed by law for filing the return for such taxable year ( not including extensions thereof ) .
401k choices are awful because : The 401k lobby is powerful . The customer is a captive audience . Most participants do not know they are awful , thanks to expense ratios . The best remedy I have found is to roll over to an IRA when changing jobs .
Also , if a beneficiary claims that he / she did not receive the FTT and Bank B refuses to confirm , how do one settle such dispute ? If Beneficiary claims Non-Receipt , you can take this to your Bank A and mention that Beneficiary Claims Non-Receipt [ BCNR ] . Bank A then will contact Bank B and either reverse the funds if there was an issue or will provide you with evidence [ some ref numbers etc ] of the receipt by Beneficiary . Apart from asking the beneficiary directly , how can I confirm / validate if an FTT has been credited into the beneficiary 's bank account ? Generally if your Bank A does not come back , it can be assumed that the funds have been credited . It typically takes 2 days , adding cut-off time , holidays , etc , within 3-4 days the funds would have got credited . Bank B denied my request citing security reasons . Bank B is right . They have no obligation to you and do not know you . They only know Bank A and Beneficiary .
You do not hold leveraged ETF for longer than a few days . You have UGAZ and DGAZ , both 3x leveraged , one longs one shorts . What happens if you buy both ? You do n't get 0 % return . In fact , you get -10 % return if you hold both for 3 months . No matter what happens , they both go down in long term . Call it Leverage Decay , Beta Slippage , Contango , Rollover , etc. . If you want to gamble that NG goes up within 3 days , go ahead . Just be prepared for the worst cases like losing 15 % in 3 days . If you want to speculate the NG will recover in a year , buy Natural Gas industry ETF <URL>
No , your 401 ( a ) contributions will not count against your Roth IRA limit . Contributing to other IRA accounts can reduce how much you can contribute to a Roth account , but 401 ( a ) / 401 ( k ) and other employer sponsored plans do not count against the Roth IRA limit . The IRS publishes a lot of really good information on this topic , which you can find <URL> . It 's pretty long though , so it 's best used as a reference .
I do n't know about keeping different rollover IRAs separate . But I know that there is a reason to keep rollover IRAs separate from other traditional IRAs -- if you want to roll them back into a 401 ( k ) in the future , some 401 ( k ) s only allow funds that were rolled over from a 401 ( k ) originally .
The one that signs the check is the one that 's giving the gift , and unless it is a spouse - gift splitting wo n't work . I suggest each of you to write a separate check . It would be even " cleaner " if it is not coming from joint accounts .
Because Congress said so . Now , if you 're asking for the legislators ' rationale , it 's something along the lines of : We only create tax shelters when we " need " to ; otherwise we just make our deficit worse for no reason . Absent a particular need , better to just lower the tax rate in general . It 's a national priority that people be able to secure their retirements . High income earners already have secured retirement , so no further tax shelter of retirement income needed . Middle income earners need the tax shelter , both for practical help saving , and to encourage them to do so in the first place . end result ... income limit on IRA contributions . Of course , not everyone in Congress agrees with all of the above reasons . I 'm sure there are PLENTY of legislators that vehemently disagree with the idea of income limit for contributions . But like everything else , it 's the result of lots of compromises over a host of issues . But that 's the general idea that most legislators could rally around , or they wanted something else in the bill , or they wanted to provide political support to their party leader , and did n't object to this enough to fight it , so that 's what the majority approved .
The shareholders elect the board of directors who in turn appoint a CEO . The CEO is responsible for the overall running of the company . To answer your specific questions : The CEO ( typically ) has the power to make all decisions for the company . It 's customary for very large decisions to first seek the approval of the board , but that differs between companies and the type of decisions . Yes , a CEO can " control " a public company . That 's exactly the point of having a CEO . Yes , Steve Jobs could make decisions that are harmful to the well-being of the company . However , it 's the responsibility of the board of directors to keep his decisions and behavior in check . They will remove him from his position if they feel he could be a danger to the company .
Because 401k 's are also used by self employed . A person who has a schedule C profitable income can open a 401k and " match " in whatever ratio he wants , up to 25 % of the net profits or the limits you stated . This allows self-employed to defer more income taxes to the future . Why only self-employed ? Good question . Ask your congressman . My explanation would be that since they 're self-employed they 're in much more danger of not having income , especially later in life , if their business go south . Thus they need a bigger cushion than an average W2 employee who can just find another job .
Money you need in less than 5 years should be saved not invested . The only place I would be comfortable the money would be a money market account or Certificate of Deposit ( CD ) . I usually go for the money market account because they pay at or close to CD rates and there are no restrictions on getting to the money . However in this case I might choose a CD to keep me from being tempted to borrow some of it for something else . But even after typing that I still think I would put it in a money market , because if interest rates rise they rise in the money market but not the CD , and I just do n't think interest can go much lower .
Just to make it an Answer : Because the exchange rate has been " pegged " to a specific value since 1983 by the Hong Kong government , rather than being allowed to drift freely . " In 1972 , the Hong Kong dollar was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 5.65 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar . This was revised to 5.085 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar in 1973 . Between 1974 and 1983 , the Hong Kong dollar was floated . On 17 October 1983 , the currency was pegged at a rate of 7.8 H.K. dollar = 1 U.S. dollar , through the currency board system . " -- Wikipedia article on <URL> . The Wikipedia article <URL> provides some additional detail about how this is managed , and notes that in practice some minor variation will occur .
GMA would call back the notes provided they are able to find alternative funds at cheaper rates . Yes you are right the interest rates are at all time low ... however not one would lend me a Billion dollars , people have to trust me that I would be able to return the funds ... even if I am willing to pay 50 % interest per annum , I would not get the funds ... Similarly GMA notes are unsecured notes , not backed by any assets . Further there is history to it ... in short today GMA is not in a position to get a cheaper funds available to them ... the day they get it , they will call in the older notes and maybe issues new notes or get some other form of funding
1 ) People are n't always going to be able to do their occupation , or their desired hobby . 2 ) Government assistance , or whatever you want to call it , is available at a certain age . Some people look forward to this and plan to rely on it , but it is n't really sufficient for living off of and keeping the standard of living you will be used to . Therefore , such situations require you to plan using a variety of other institutions to help you in that time . Finally , more is more : if your retirement funds exceed what you need , you can leave something for your family to help them start at a more stable financial place after you are gone .
If one wants to have a bound on the loss percentages that are acceptable , this is would be a way to enforce that . For example , suppose someone wants to have a 5 % stop-loss but does n't want this to be worse than 10 % as if the stock goes down more than 10 % then the sell should n't happen . Thus , if the stock opened in a gap down 15 % one day , this triggers the stop-loss and would exit at too low of a price as the gap was quite high as I wonder how familiar are you with how much a stock 's price could change that makes the prices not be as continuous as one would think . At least this would be my thinking on a volatile stock where one may want to try to limit losses if the stock does fall within a specific range .
As an investor , I try to interpret the suits as an attempt to in some way influence the actions of the company - and not , usually , as a serious legal threat ( or as likely to lead to serious legal consequences ) . My ( shallow ) understanding ( as a non-lawyer ) is that the requirements for a lawsuit to be filed as class-action suit are ( relatively speaking ) easier to meet when the company is publicly traded - the shareholders are more easily described as a " class " . So it 's more common for lawsuits that involve stock holders for large , publicly traded companies to be registered as class action suits . Class action suits include a requirement for some advertising and notifications ( so all members of the class become aware of the suit , and can decide whether to participate ) . So , these types of suits can be started with various goals in mind , goals which might be achieved without the suit ever going anywhere - including to gain some publicity for a particular point of view , or to put pressure on the company to perform particular actions . In most cases , though , they are the result of misunderstandings between the various parties with an interest in how the company is run - shareholders , directors and/or executive officers . For most cases , the result of the suit is a more in depth sharing of information between the parties involved , and possibly a change in the plans/actions of the company ; the legal technicalities differ from case to case , and , often , the legal consequences are minor .
( I think this fits better here than where I originally posted it ... ;) ) The College Board offers a <URL> . Keep in mind that college costs typically increase faster than inflation . When I attended in 2001-2005 , my college 's tuition costs increases ranged from 4 to 8 % .
It depends on what you paid for , but usually audit support is an unrelated engagement to the return preparation . If the accountant made a professional mistake , you can request correction and compensation from that accountant , other than that any accountant can help you with audit regardless of who prepared the return . The original accountant would probably be better informed about why you reported each number on the return and how it was calculated , but if you kept all the docs , it can be recalculated again . That 's what happens in the audit anyway .
end question
start question
Why is it better to pay the life insurance money into a trust ?
Trusts are useful for a number of situations , country-centric or not . If there are inheritance tax issues , a trust as owner of the insurance policy can help keep the insurance payout out of the deceased 's estate . If a beneficiary is n't capable of handling a large sum of money , a trust adds a layer of fiduciary responsibility . With that might come the risk of theft as with any third party .
Does you employer offer a Flexible spending account ? If so , you deposit pretax funds to this account and are reimbursed for your ( medical ) insurance premiums . <URL> indicates <URL> shows what items are covered . I 'm sorry if this seems convoluted . Otherwise , health care is deductible as an itemized deduction only to the extent it exceeds 7.5 % of your AGI . For most , this does n't make the cut . CORRECTION - another question here <URL> resulted in the conclusion one can not use the FSA to pay insurance premiums . One can look at <URL> on the top of page 17 , " You can not receive distributions from your FSA for the following expenses .  Amounts paid for health insurance premiums . "
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
The total outlay in 1 . is $ 15552 and in 2 . is $ 15560 , so if you had the $ 4000 ( and ignoring forgone interest which is very low at the moment ) , then you 'd only need $ 8 of savings from the tax deduction for it to be worthwhile - I suspect they set it up so that the numbers would be the same modulo rounding errors . From your stats you probably do n't have the $ 4000 up front , so you 'd have to borrow it . Let 's guess it might mean a 25 % interest rate given your poor credit situation , and that you 'd pay most of it back in the last 2 of the 12 months , so it 'd cost you about $ 1000 . I guess your tax bracket may mean that the savings from the tax deduction still make that worthwhile , but I 'm not familiar enough with US tax to be sure .
The estate tax laws change almost year to year , so an explanation of bypass trust is probably in order . For this example , assume a $ 1 million estate exemption . If a couple has $ 2 million in assets , you 'd think they can pass it along with no estate tax . But when the husband dies , and the wife has $ 2M in assets , on her death , the excess million is subject to estate tax . Enter the bypass trust . On hubby 's death , the maximum exemption amount ( here , the million ) goes into the trust . The wife is permitted limited withdrawal , usually just interest , but the principal is out of her estate . Now , to answer the question , no , the annual limit does n't apply , but as the trust is not irrevocable , the lifetime limit does n't come in to play . Often , these trusts are worded so the limit in effect the year you die is the amount that funds the trust . Else , one might need an attorney visit every year .
As I understand it ( please correct me if i 'm wrong , i 've looked at this before and i 've been a sole trader briefly but I 've never formed a LTD company ) there are pros and cons to forming a limited company . Pros The tax situation is more flexible . As a sole trader all profits are considered income and subject to income tax and class 4 NI . With a LTD company there is a distinction between money paid out in salary , profits paid out as dividends and profits retained in the buisness . This can sometimes reduce your total tax outlay if you think about how you move the money arround and especially if you want to reinvest your profits in growing the buisness rather than taking them as personal income . you have some shielding ( though not total protection ) . from liabilities run up by the company if it goes bankrupt . You have the structure in place to sell parts of your buisness to other investors . Some companies dislike dealing with sole traders because they can get into trouble if a self employed contractor starts acting like an employee . Cons More paperwork , you have to keep track of the companies money seperate from your own . You should also generally pay yourself at least some of your income as salary which means dealing with the employer side of PAYE and possiblly with workplace pensions . Self employed class 4 NI is lower than the NI ( employees and employers ) paid for an employee . ( It 's also lower than corporation tax but dividends attract a reduced level of income tax which offsets this ) . So if you are n't careful about managing your money you may end up paying more tax as a LTD company .
You have a loan . You can probably assume you 're going to have to repay that loan , every dollar . And every dollar that 's outstanding on that loan costs you interest . So assuming you 're not hit by any pre-payment penalty , any dollar that you pay down on your house right now saves you a compounded R % a year , where R is your mortgage rate . It does n't really matter whether you 're planning to sell it in a few years or not . If you pay $ N , you 'll save the interest + $ N taken from the sale price and sent to the bank when you sell the house and move ( though you might get a tax deduction on the interest ) . If you have a better place to park your money and earn a decent rate of return , it would be worth it to do that instead of paying down the mortgage . If you had another loan with higher interest rates , that 's probably a better loan to pay off . If you can spend some of all of it on something that 's actually genuinely worth R % of its purchase price a year ( plus whatever the wear and tear takes away from its value , if anything ) then spend it on that instead ; that 'd be a better investment . ( For instance , investments in the stock market may offer better returns . However , that 's risky ! Observe that you ca n't lose money paying down your mortgage , and that Safety is usually relatively expensive these days , so it 's not a bad deal . But if you 're talking about using it for long-term retirement savings that are tax-advantaged to boot , that 's another matter . ) If you already have ample emergency funds and were just planning on putting the money into a savings account to rot at ~ 1.35 % taxable interest , it 's definitely worth it to pay down your balance now , unless you 're about to sell ( so the savings are slight ) and it 's a real inconvenience .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
I believe the insurance you are talking about is the type of insurance that makes your payment in the event you ca n't pay due to some specific reasons . These types of insurance are profit centers for the credit card companies and are generally not worth it for the consumer . You are better off picking the best credit card that meets your needs and then finding your insurance needs separately . Typically , the best credit card payment insurance plan is to not carry a balance and have a reasonable emergency fund . Putting the money that would have gone to insurance towards those two goals will likely help you more than paying for the credit card insurance policy .
After the initial public offering , the company can raise money by selling more stock ( equity financing ) or selling debt ( e.g. borrowing money ) . If a company 's stock price is high , they can raise money with equity financing on more favorable terms . When companies raise money with equity financing , they create new shares and dilute the existing shareholders , so the number of shares outstanding is not fixed . Companies can also return money to shareholders by buying their own equity , and this is called a <URL> . It 's best for companies to repurchase their shared when their stock price is low , but " <URL> " The management of a company typically likes a rising stock price , so their stock options are more valuable and they can justify bigger pay packages .
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
While I ca n't say this is the normal process for this to happen , it does n't seem too far fetched to be true . I would assume that the double application fee is in part to guarantee nothing slips past them in the process . The fact that you state they have a particularly low rent as compared to other places in the area may be due to having higher entry standards , in which they do a bit more in terms of vetting potential renters , in order to guarantee themselves accurate payment without too much in the way of problems . If you really like the complex , I would say bite the bullet and pay the application fee , or at least ask them why both of you would need to pay such a fee , they should be more than happy to explain it to you .
Trusts are useful for a number of situations , country-centric or not . If there are inheritance tax issues , a trust as owner of the insurance policy can help keep the insurance payout out of the deceased 's estate . If a beneficiary is n't capable of handling a large sum of money , a trust adds a layer of fiduciary responsibility . With that might come the risk of theft as with any third party .
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
What you need will depend on a number of factors that are n't clear from the question . This coverage is simply called " Vacant home insurance " , but not all companies are willing to offer this coverage . Unfortunately , in New York , insurers can also legally drop your standard homeowners ' coverage if they become aware that your property has become vacant for 30 days or more . The Insurer 's Concerns Typically , a " standard " homeowners policy will have an exclusion clause for vacant homes . The insurance company 's concern is that without someone in the home , they will be at risk for break-ins , squatters and vandalism . If you 've ever seen " Flip Men " on Spike , you 'll know this is a serious concern ( great show , by the way ) . They will use a risk model to calculate an estimated risk for the property ( this is why a seasonal vacation home in a sparsely-populated area is often less of a concern than a family home in an urban area ) . If they estimate the risk to be low , some insurance companies will allow to you buy back that exclusion so that vacant properties are covered . In your case , they have probably decided that either : They think the risk of damage that would result in a claim is too high , or They already have too much exposure to vacant homes , or They do n't have the expertise to properly assess the risk , or They are n't in a financial position to cover the extra risk Your Options First , you need to find a company that is comfortable with taking on the extra risk of a vacant home . This will vary quite a bit by location , but the main ones are Farmer 's ( they use the Foremost brand name in New York ) and Castle Rock . There are lots of insurance agencies that also advertise these products , but most of them are middlemen and use one of these two companies to actually write the coverage . Additionally , since this is a specialty policy , make sure you understand all of the details of the policy , and how they vary from a regular policy including : State-specific eligibility requirements for what is legally consided " vacant " Return of Premium - if you sell the house before your coverage ends , will they refund any portion of the premium for the months on which you do n't need coverage ? Policy duration - some companies may only be willing to write short-term policies Variations in covered Perils - some companies do n't cover certain risks you may consider essential ( such as vandalism ) . Make sure you can afford to cover a worst-case scenario before you agree to take on any excluded perils . Cash versus Replacement Value - make sure you know what your reimbursement would be under both scenarios Higher Cost - according to Castle Rock 's website , coverage for vacant properties can be 150 % to 300 % of the cost of a standard homeowners ' policy . Ultimately , you will need to make a decision on how to balance all the costs of maintaining a vacant home versus how much you 'd lose if you were to sell the property quickly but below it 's true market value . How to Reduce your Premium costs These are general tips from the Murray Group 's website ( an independent broker in NY ) on how to lower the additional cost of vacant coverage : Make sure you have a centralized security system including fire alarms installed such that authorities will be notified in the event of a fire or break-in Have deadbolts on every entry point Winterize the house , especially the water pipes to avoid bursts Board up the windows to avoid glass breakage and unauthorized entry Hire a monitoring service to check up on the house and inspect regularly This may sound expensive , but these steps will all reduce the risk of something really bad happening when you 're not there . Additionally , do you know anyone you completely trust ( relative , unemployed friend ) that might want to live in your old house rent-free for a while ? This could work out for you if they are willing to keep the place 100 % clean around the clock so that you can show the house at any time . If you have additional/specific questions , you should be able to find an independent insurance broker in your area that would be willing to advise you on your specific situation for a flat fee . Best of luck with getting the home covered and sold quickly !
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
Whole life insurance accumulates a cash value on a pre-tax basis . With a paid-up policy , you make payments until a particular age ( usually 65 or 70 ) , at which point you are insured for the rest of your life or a very old age like 120 . You can also access this pool of money via loans while you are still alive , but you reduce your benefit until you repay the loans . This may be advantageous if you have a high net worth . Also , if you own a business or farm , a permanent policy may be desirable if the transfer of your property to heirs is likely to generate alot of transactional costs like taxes . Nowadays there are probably better ways to do that too . Whole life/universal life is a waste of money 95 % + of the time . An example , my wife and I were recently offered open-enrollment ( no medical exam ) insurance policies our employers in New York . We 're in our early 30 's . I bought a term policy paying about $ 400k which costs $ 19/mo . My wife was offered a permanent policy that pays $ 100k which costs $ 83/mo , and would have a cash value of $ 35k at age 65 . If you invested the $ 60/mo difference between those policies and earned 5 % / year with 30 % taxes on the gains , you 'd have over $ 40k with 4x more coverage .
end question
start question
Can I max out all retirement account types ?
The most that you could contribute would be maxing out a 401k ( of either type ) and a Roth IRA . 17.5 + 5.5 = 23k ( assuming you are n't old enough for the 401k catch up provision ) The 401k contribution limits are regardless of Roth or traditional 401k . If you contribute to a workplace 401k it will phase out your deduction for a traditional IRA . That leaves the Roth IRA as your other option . If you are married and your spouse works , you can contribute 46k ( 17.5 his 401k , 17.5 her 401k , 5.5 his roth ira , 5.5 her roth ira ) . If you are married and your spouse does not work , you can contribute 28.5 k ( 17.5 his 401k , 5.5 his roth ira , 5.5 her spousal roth ira ) . Note : Some would say that maxing out a Roth 401k at 17.5 k is more than maxing out a traditional 401k at 17.5 because a Roth 401k takes more than 17.5 k of earnings to contribute 17.5 k of funds and a traditional 401k takes 17.5 k of earnings to contribute 17.5 k of funds .
The maximum drawdown is the worst top to bottom performance . For example if the fund 's value goes like 100 , 105 , 92 , 94 , 90 , 100 , 110 , 103 , 112 the max DD is the performance from 105 to 90 which is worst performance an investor could have received due to bad timing . Annualised standard deviation is another word for volatility .
In any . There 's no SSN requirement to open a bank account in the US . It comes into play when banks use SSN as a means of identification , or when they 're required to collect tax ids ( for interest bearing accounts ) .
Evaluate if the Rs 5 million term insurance is sufficient . Typically the term insurance provided by employer is in the range of 1 to 3 times the gross . Generally one should be covered in the range of 5 to 10 times the Gross . The sooner you start the lesser the premium and you can get insured for a large amount for a long duration at very nominal rate . NOTE : Buy Term plan only and not other plans like money back or ULIPS etc. . The only flip side of having insurance from employer only is that in between jobs it exposes you to a risk . You can also buy a health insurance for your father , note these typically come at high cost , generally if over 70 years of age , 25 % is the premium amount and 25 % as co-pay . So if your dad does n't fall ill once in 3 years , its a loss making proposition . Edit : Accident insurance best take is along with rider on term plan . Additional Health insurance is a good idea and helps if you are in between jobs . Plus the new company health insurance can reject a particular treatment as " Pre-Existing " . i.e. certain illness [ in certain plans ] require one to have coverage for 3 years before the claim for it can be covered .
I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it is going to take 15 years to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to paying down debt . Cut expenses by going out to eat less , and keeping spending to the bare necessities . You might even consider getting a second job , just for paying down the debt . If that is n't enough , consider selling off some assets . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( excluding maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 years . Once the only debt you have is a home mortgage , then its time to look at putting money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The costs for doing so are nearly always too great .
Assuming that the NRE ( NonResident External ) account is in good standing , that is , you are still eligible to have an NRE account because your status as a NonResident of India has not changed in the interim , you can transfer money back from your NRE account to your US accounts without any problems . But be aware that you bear the risk of getting back a much smaller amount than you invested in the NRE account because of devaluation of the Indian Rupee ( INR ) . NRE accounts are held in INR , and whatever amounts ( in INR ) that you choose to withdraw will be converted to US$ at the exchange rate then applicable . Depending on whether it is the Indian bank that is doing the conversion and sending money by wire to your US bank , or you are depositing a cheque in INR in your US bank , you may be charged miscellaneous service fees also . To answer a question that you have not asked as yet , there is no US tax on the transfer of the money . The interest paid on your deposits into the NRE account are not taxable income to you in India , but are taxable income to you in the US , and so I hope that you have been declaring this income each year on Schedule B of your income tax return , and also reporting that you have accounts held abroad , as required by US law . See for example , <URL> and also <URL> .
There are several neat ( and AFAICT completely undocumented ) resources on <URL> . For your needs I would recommend : / SymbolDirectory/nasdaqlisted . txt = US Tape C equities / SymbolDirectory/otherlisted . txt = US Tape A/B equities ( depending on the value of the column ) As for listings and delistings , I know I 've seen those updated in / SymbolDirectory/TradingSystemAddsDeletes . txt but I do n't know if there 's a historical archive for that info . NASDAQ may actually offer all this for download in a more supported way through their website , but the FTP has worked for me .
Almost any financial institution has the technical ability to do this ( simply called sweeps , auto sweeps , or deposit sweeps ) ; the issue you face is finding an institution that is willing to do it for you . I think you will have the most luck at your primary financial institution where you currently keep the majority of your banking relationship . You will have better luck at small-town banks and credit unions . The mega banks will likely not waver from their established policies . Deposit sweeps are common for business accounts . They are usually tied to a savings account , which is usually held within the same institution , however this is not a requirement . The sweep can send money to any US bank if you can provide the routing number and account number . The sweep will establish a peg balance , or floor balance , on the checking account . At the end of the day , any amount above the peg is swept into the savings account automatically . I doubt you will find what you 're asking for within an online banking system . You will likely have to go into a branch and speak with a personal banker . Explain to them you want to establish a sweep on your checking account and want to send the funds to another financial institution . You will have better luck asking for a peg of $ 100 , or some other small amount . They may not take your request seriously if you want to completely empty the checking account to zero .
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
A 401 ( k ) is just a container . Like real-world containers ( those that are usually made out of metal ) , you can put ( almost ) anything you want in it . Signing up for your employer 's match is a great thing to do . Getting into the habit of saving a significant portion of your take-home pay early in your career is even better ; doing so will put you lightyears ahead of lots of people by the time you approach retirement age . Even if you love your job , that will give you options you otherwise would n't have . There is no real reason why you ca n't start out by putting your retirement money in a short-term money-market fund within that 401 ( k ) . By doing so you will only earn a pittance , probably not even enough to keep up with inflation in today 's economic environment , but at this point in your ( savings and investment ) career , that does n't really matter much . What really matters is getting into the habit of setting that money aside every single time you get paid and not thinking much of it . And that 's a lot easier if you start out early , especially at a time when you likely have received a significant net pay increase ( salaried job vs college student ) . I know , everyone says to get the best return you can . But if you are just starting out , and feel the need to be conservative , then do n't be afraid to at least start out that way . You can always rebalance into investment classes that have the potential for higher return -- and correspondingly higher volatility -- in a few years . In the meantime , you will have built a pretty nice capital that you can move into the stock market eventually . The exact rate of return you get in the first decade matters a lot less than how much money you set aside regularly and that you keep contributing . See for example <URL> by Matt Becker ( no affiliation ) , which illustrates how it takes 14 years for saving 5 % at a consistent 10 % return to beat saving 10 % at a consistent 0 % return . So look through what 's being offered in terms of low-risk investments within that 401 ( k ) . Go ahead and pick a money-market fund or a bond fund if you want to start out easy . If it gets you into the habit of saving and sticking with it , then the overall return will beat the daylights out of the return you would get from a good stock market fund if you stop contributing after a year or two . Especially ( but not only ) if you do pick an interest-bearing investment , do make sure to pick one that has as low fees as you can possibly find for what you want , because otherwise the fees are going to eat a lot into your potential returns , benefiting the bank or investment house rather than yourself . Just keep an open mind , and very strongly consider shifting at least some of your investments into the stock market as you grow more comfortable over the next several years . You can always keep a portion of your money in various interest-bearing investments to act as a cushion in case the market slumps .
Frequently neighboring states reach an agreement that allow only the state where you live to levy taxes on income . The state where you earn that income does n't tax you , and does n't even require you to file any forms . These agreements are done by specific states , and they generally share a border . But , you will still end up counting all the income you receive as income earned in your home state . If you live in the state with the lower tax rate that makes you very happy , because you will save money . Even if you do n't save money you save time because you do n't have to fill out tax forms for both states . If there is no agreement between your two states , then generally you will only count the income where it is earned . Of course you will only be taxed once , and the other state will either ignore it , or give you a credit for the income tax paid to the other state . In some states local jurisdiction : cities , towns , counties also have income taxes . If they do they will be taxing you on all your income that is taxed by your state .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
If you are using T-mobile you do n't have to put $ 100 in each year to keep your minutes for a year . Once you spend $ 100 you get a year with any additional minutes you buy . Buying them $ 100 at a time is the cheapest way - but when you renew you can renew with only $ 50 or $ 30 and you have a year to use them from the last time you bought . I did this this year - only put $ 50 on each phone because we do n't use $ 100 worth in a year .
You can only deduct medical expenses that exceed 7.5 % of your AGI for any given year . I do n't think that taxes are really a factor here .
The difference between dividend and growth in mutual funds has to do with the types of stocks the mutual fund invests in . Typically a company in the early stages are considered growth investments . In this phase the company needs to keep most of its profits to reinvest in the business . Typically once a company gets a significant size the company 's growth prospects are not as good so the company pays some of its profits in the form of a dividend to the shareholders . As far as which is the best buy is totally a personal choice . There will be times when one is better then the other . Most likely you will want to " diversify " and invest in both types .
As I 've had several jobs over the last decade , I 've typically run two pension plans - a private one which I use for consolidating all my previous pensions into and my current corporate one ( often does n't allow consolidating ) where I take advantage of the corporate benefits associated with it ( large corporate institutions typically match your own contributions or contribute a fixed percentage of salary as a perk ) . This allows me to not worry about the previous pension schemes I was a part of as they are in a single place . With the very last corporate job I had , I was not allowed to keep my pension pot under their scheme terms ( unlike with a few others where it was allowed to stay in the scheme but contributions were no longer allowed by either party ) and so when I left , I provided the details of my private pension plan and the pot was transferred into it by my employer . I 've since turned to contracting and consolidated all my previous pensions into a single private pension pot which I still contribute to every month .
If some clerk at the bank misses it , you may be able . Technically you should n't be allowed to . All three have to sign .
A " fiat " currency is non-convertible paper currency that a government establishes as legal tender . Most countries today are using fiat currencies . The rest have currencies pegged ( or convertible to ) US Dollars ( which is a fiat currency ) . In the past , money was usually based on precious metals such as gold or silver . Until the end of the gold standard , you could theoretically go the the US Treasury with a US Note or Federal Reserve Note and convert the note into a fixed quantity of gold or silver ( depending on the note ) . The US had a bi-metallic currency policy for political reasons , which means that money was backed by both gold and silver .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
" myRA " is a name for a proposal Obama made to make IRA more accessible to people who are employed but do n't have access to the traditional employer-sponsored retirement plans . However , other than making IRA more accessible - there 's nothing in that plan that does n't exist already . You can open IRA yourself and deposit money there yourself . The only thing " myRA " proposal adds is an ability to deduct money automatically from your paycheck and deposit it into your IRA without you doing it manually . Bottom line - it is just a proposal , not an existing program , that makes things you 're already doing easier for people who are not doing it yet .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between gross pay and net pay ? What do the withholdings mean ?
It would be quite the trick for ( a ) the government to run all year and get all its revenue in April when taxes are due and ( b ) for people to actually save the right amount to be able to cut that check each year . W2 employers withhold the estimated federal and state taxes along with the payroll ( social security ) tax from each paycheck . Since the employer does n't know how many kids you have , or how much mortgage interest , etc you will take deductions for , you can submit a <URL> to adjust withholdings . The annual Form 1040 in April is to reconcile exact numbers , some people get a refund of some of what they paid in , others owe some money . If one is self-employed , they are required to pay quarterly estimated taxes . And they , too , reconcile exact numbers in April .
365D is represented on a daily chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each day the market is open . It represents 365 trading days . So if your SMA is based on the closed prices it would represent the average daily close price over the previous 365 days . As each day progresses the previous 365th day will be dropped off the average and the previous day will be added to it . To represent one year in a SMA you would need to include 52 weeks x 5 trading days per week minus any public holidays that fall on a trading day . 52W is represented on a weekly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each week . So the Open would be the opening price on Monday morning , the Close would be the closing price on Friday afternoon , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the week . If your SMA is based on the weekly close price it would represent the average weekly close ( the close price for each Friday afternoon unless the Friday is a public holiday then the close price on Thursday afternoon ) over the previous 52 weeks . 12M is represented on a monthly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each month . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the 1st of the months ( or first trading day of the month ) , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the month , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the month . If your SMA is based on the monthly close price it would represent the average monthly close ( the close price for the afternoon of the last trading day of the month ) over the previous 12 months . 1Y is represented on a yearly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each year . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the first trading day of the year , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the year , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the year . Note : a 1Y SMA on a yearly chart would simply represent the close price for each year , so the get an effective SMA on a yearly chart you would need to use a longer period than 1Y . So 52W , 12M and 1Y all represent one year on a chart , however , 365D would actually represent more than a year because there are less than 365 trading days in a year . Also , to use both monthly or yearly charts you would want to be looking at very long term time periods , or else the chart would not tell you very much and be better represented in either weekly or daily time frames . For Monthly charts you would want to be looking at least at 5 years plus of data , and for yearly charts at least 50 to 100 years or more of data .
I would suggest you pay quarterly . Or , if you prefer , do the extra withholding . Do n't wait until the end of the year . My experience is that of having a day job with freelance work on the side . I 've spent a few years just freelancing , and I paid quarterly as requested to avoid the penalties . Now that I have a good day job again , my freelancing is just a small part of my income , and so I end up with a net return and no longer have to pay quarterly . You should n't wait until the end of the year to pay . This is assuming your wife is bringing in a decent income . The only scenario where you would want to wait is if her income is only a small amount ( such as my wife 's plans for an Etsy store ) . To the IRS , it does n't really make a difference whether you withhold extra or pay quarterly . Of those two choices , my preference is to pay quarterly - it 's easy to set up calendar reminders on the quarterly payment dates , which are always the same . I did the same as bstpierre when estimating my payments : just take last year 's tax ( for the business ) and divide by 4 ( adjusting for any obvious situational differences ) . That 's usually close enough . Paying quarterly instead of via withholding means you get to hold on to your money ( on average ) for 6 weeks longer . Granted , that does n't mean much with today 's interest rates , but it 's something . You may prefer the simpler accounting for withholding , though - you can " set and forget " .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
No , you do n't . Rounding errors happen , and if there 's no change in the actual tax there 's no reason to amend . If all the income was properly reported and the tax was properly calculated - no-one cares if it was rounded up or down on one of the lines . Note for the next time though : Not sure about New York , but Federal taxes are generally rounded to the nearest dollar on each line of the form . So do n't calculate cents , just round to the nearest dollar , and be consistent on all of your tax forms . Technically , it is perfectly legal to report cents as well ( and people used to when the forms were still filled by hand with pen ) , but all the automatic tax filing software rounds , so just do that .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
In the US ( and apparently the UK ) , Renters insurance is an umbrella policy that generally includes some liability coverage in case of damages caused by the insured as well as coverage for contents , and often includes a stipend to cover expenses from finding temporary shelter should it be needed . Contents insurance just covers the property owned by/in possession of the insured . This can be limited by type of damage , so if you are on the top floor you do not need to worry as much about flooding , as if you are on a lower floor . But the savings are generally very small . On a 100k policy in the US typically the difference between renters and content coverage is less than $ 20 a year . Typically content coverage is for people with valuable assets ( original artwork , jewelry , etc ) in excess of what standard liability and property coverage would be needed . This would usually be purchased in addition to a rental or owners policy . Though you could choose to protect your contents with out a liability protection policy . Tenant coverage appears to be the equivalent of the General Liability policy in the US . It would protect the tenant from liability in case of damage caused by them to the rental property or other tenants .
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
In the academic sense , an annuity is payable annually for a term of years and a perpetuity is payable annually forever . An annuity has an end date and a perpetuity does not . Many commonly seen annuities are structured to pay until death of the recipient , which for the issuer can be averaged and anticipated using actuarial tables ( i.e. the anticipated average number of years for the aggregate is known , even though individual payees may live longer or shorter lives ) . This is still analyzed as an annuity for a term of years . An annuity may be payable upon retirement , but there 's no financial reason you could n't delay a perpetuity by a term of years . You 'd value it as a perpetuity , but discount it for the future value based on the retirement date . I do n't believe anybody does this currently . You could also index a perpetuity , but of course that would raise its cost to purchase at the front end . Tax treatment of annuities can be favorable to the extent that insurance rules are more favorable than one might expect . But the payment of interest is generally ordinary income under IRC  61 , whether it is payable every year or for a term of years . The last difference you list is the actual rule . Perpetuities are payable forever , so do not cease with death . An annuity that ceases with death is payable only for a term of years ( even though the term may not be known ahead of time for any individual annuitant ) . A perpetuity continues paying , so it 's just a stream of income . Of course , perpetuities could be called back by the issuer in exchange for some value ( possibly a cash settlement sum or determined by a formula ) , which terminates the perpetuity obligation . But the mathematical valuation is still based on the idea of endless payment . <URL> : <URL> :
In broad terms , Child Benefit is a universal benefit paid to anyone earning up to # 50-60 ,000 a year * whilst Child Tax credit is primarily means tested ( for no/low incomes really ) . Both are payable provided the young person is under 20 ( not 18 ) and is in full time non advanced ( up to " A level " standard ) education or certain types of training . Child benefit is reduced in stages if someone in the household has a taxable income over # 50,000 , down to 0 at # 60,000 . Child Tax Credit is being phased out and replaced as a part of " Universal Credit " . It 's quite specific and a little complex so read the official sites : - Child Benefit <URL> - Child Tax Credit <URL> Another site worth trying is <URL> ( not a government site ) but it will point out any benefits , etc that you may be ' entitled to ' from all the available government resources . Do n't be afraid to call HMRC for advice - they 're pretty good when they eventaully answer ! And Citizens Advice and Money Advice Service are free resources that are always handy . Google gave me these as good results : <URL> and <URL> from the well-respected Which ? site . I must end with a disclaimer though : everyone 's situations are different and the benefits system here in the UK is very complex at times . Always seek proper advice and use this type of forum merely as a pointer to the ball-park area . Best of luck .
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
These are two different ways of processing payments . They go through different systems many times , and are treated differently by the banks , credit card issuers and the stores . Merchants pay different fees on transactions paid by debit cards and by credit cards . Debit transactions require PIN , and are deducted from your bank account directly . In order to achieve that , the transaction has to reach the bank in real time , otherwise it will be declined . This means , that the merchant has to have a line of communications open to the relevant processor , that in turn has to be able to connect to the bank and get the authorization - all that while on-line . The bank verifies the PIN , authorizes the transaction , and deducts the amount from your account , while you 're still at the counter . Many times these transactions can not be reversed , and the fraud protections and warranties are different from credit transactions . Credit transactions do n't have to go to your card issuer at all . The merchant can accept credit payment without calling anyone , and without getting prior authorizations . Even if the merchant sends the transaction for authorization with its processor , if the processor can not reach the issuing bank - they can still approve the transaction under certain conditions . This is , however , never true with debit cards ( even if used as " credit " ) . They 're not deducted from your bank account , but accumulated on your credit card account . They 're posted there when the actual transaction reaches the card issuer , which may be many days ( and even many months ) after the transaction took place . Credit transactions can be reversed ( in some cases very easily ) , and enjoy from a higher level of fraud protection . In some countries ( and most , if not all , of the EU ) fraudulent credit transactions are never the consumer 's problem , always the bank 's . Not so with debit transactions . Banks may be encouraging you to use debit for several reasons : They do n't share the risk ( see fraud protection differences ) They get to deduct the money right away , they may be paying the merchant later ( depending on the contract between the merchant and the processor ) Merchants will probably prefer credit because : They do n't have to maintain communication to processor at all times ( although now with the Internet connections , it is less of a problem than when they had to make a phone call on each card ) . They can accept payments over the Internet and over the phone . Consumers will probably be better off with credit because : Its better protected against fraud Easier to reverse transaction ( dispute ) Allows deferring the actual payment ( credit cards only ) Many credit cards offer rewards , very few debit cards do , and if they do - the rewards are much lower .
My number one piece of advice is to see a tax professional who can guide you through the process , especially if you 're new to the process . Second , keep detailed records . That being said , I found two articles , <URL> and <URL> that give some relevant details that you might find helpful . The articles state that : Many artists end up with a combination of income types : income from regular wages and income from self-employment . Income from wages involves a regular paycheck with all appropriate taxes , social security , and Medicare withheld . Income from self-employment may be in the form of cash , check , or goods , with no withholding of any kind . They provide a breakdown for expenses and deductions based on the type of income you receive . If you get a regular paycheck : If you 've got a gig lasting more than a few weeks , chances are you will get paid regular wages with all taxes withheld . At the end of the year , your employer will issue you a form W-2 . If this regular paycheck is for entertainment-related work ( and not just for waiting tables to keep the rent paid ) , you will deduct related expenses on a Schedule A , under " Unreimbursed Employee business expenses , " or on Form 2106 , which will give you a total to carry to the schedule A . The type of expenses that go here are : Union dues . Apparel : Uniforms , costumes , special shoes ( tap , ballet , character , or anything else not suitable for street wear ) theatrical makeup , and wigs . Cleaning of work-related apparel . Education : Acting , voice , or dance lessons , or other education related to improving or maintaining your performance skills . Photographs , videos , or CDs used for self-promotion and marketing . If you are considered an independent contractor ( I presume this includes the value of goods , based on the first quoted paragraph above ) : Independent contractors get paid by cash or check with no withholding of any kind . This means that you are responsible for all of the Social Security and Medicare normally paid or withheld by your employer ; this is called Self-Employment Tax . In order to take your deductions , you will need to complete a Schedule C , which breaks down expenses into even more detail . In addition to the items listed above , you will probably have items in the following categories : Advertising : Promotional and marketing materials go here , as do any ads you place offering your services . Legal and professional fees : Commissions to agents , attorney fees , and tax preparation fees go here . You can also put union dues here if the membership is not tied to any one job . Auto/transportation expenses : Track your mileage to auditions , keep receipts for the bus or subway , and hang on to plane and train ticket info . Insurance : Any special insurance or bond required because of your work . NOTE : Health insurance is deducted elsewhere , so do n't include that here . Supplies : Shoes , costumes , makeup and office supplies go here . Other : Postage , cell phone if devoted exclusively to work , fax or photocopy fees , classes , reference materials , subscriptions , and anything else related to getting or performing work . If in doubt , keep the receipt , note what it was for , and ask your tax professional or the IRS . Ideally , you should receive a 1099 MISC from whatever employer ( s ) paid you as an independent contractor . Keep in mind that some states have a <URL> , which is A state tax levied against performers whose legal residence is outside of the state where the performance is given . The tax requires that a certain percentage of any gross earnings from the performance be withheld for the state . Seriously , keep all of your receipts , pay stubs , W2 's , 1099 forms , contracts written on the backs of napkins , etc. and go see a tax professional .
George 's answer is excellent . To expand a bit on " which is better " , just based on my experience with a handful of regional/national banks and a couple different credit unions : Many credit unions are small , local banks . This can be great if you want a personal relationship with CU employees -- you may be able to get flexibility when applying for a loan , for example . The downside is they may not have hours that are as convenient , the online banking may be missing features ( or just plain missing ) , etc -- they just do n't have as much in terms of resources as large national banks . They may not belong to a large ATM network . If you use your ATM frequently you 'll pay more in fees at the terminal . They may not have a " call center " , staffed 24x7 , by people " far away " . You decide whether this is good or bad . Larger credit unions have more resources to cancel some or all of those downsides , but then they have more fees . Large national banks have branches all over , ATMs everywhere , are open at the supermarket on weekends and evenings , and have really slick online banking . You pay for this ( sometimes excessively , it seems ) in fees . When you have to talk to someone , you may be lucky enough to have a personal relationship with someone at your local branch , but you are just as likely to get a drone at a call center who is powerless to actually fix anything for you . Everything I said above for small credit unions goes for small , local banks . What 's " better " or " worse " depends on which of those things above are more important to you .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
Yes . You did not notice the " $ 1,410 Customer Down Payment " , the " $ 650 Acquisition Fee " , the " $ 350 Disposition Fee " " due at lease termination " , and the " $ 275 security deposit " for customers who do not have good enough credit . Also , " A dealer documentary service fee up to $ 150 may be added to the sale price or capitalized cost . " These charges might ( or might not ) add up to the dealer profit margin . You can negotiate the " Adjusted Capitalized Cost " of " $ 29,841 " , and the " documentary service fee " . By doing so , you can reduce your up-front payment ( and the dealer profit margin ) . The price mentioned above " Includes destination charge , but excludes state and local taxes , tags , registration , title and insurance . " Also , this is a " low mileage lease " . If you choose to not purchase the vehicle at the end of the lease , you " may be charged for excessive wear based on Toyota Financial Services standards for normal use and for mileage in excess of 24,000 miles at the rate of $ 0.15 per mile " .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 591/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
For the most part , they 're pretty similar . I have never noticed any differences related to MC vs. VISA , most differences are from the banks offering the cards . It does seem that there is a greater acceptance rate for VISA cards internationally . I have also heard that the MC warranty program ( where they extend the manufacturers ' warranty on anything purchased on a MC ) is outstanding . I think VISA has a similar offering though , for their Signature cardholders .
<URL> is a record that can be put on your asset , meaning that any sale proceeds of the asset will go to a lien holder/lien holder must approve any transfer of ownership . The asset continues to belong to you though . <URL> is when someone gives you money and you promise to pay it back . <URL> is a specific case of a loan - loan is called " mortgage " when something is mortgaged in return ( usually this refers to real estate , but auto loans are essentially the same ) . I.e. : the lender puts a lien on the property and has the right to sell it if you 're in default on your loan obligation ( a " regular " lien does n't give that right ) .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
end question
start question
Where can end-of-day data be downloaded for corporate bonds ?
Here is one from a Bloomberg partnership , it is <URL> . To get the end of day prices , you may need some programming done . PM me if you need help with that . Getting bond quotes and general information about a bond issue is considerably more difficult than researching a stock or a mutual fund . A major reason for this is that there is not a lot of individual investor demand for the information ; therefore , most bond information is available only through higher level tools that are not accessible to the average investor . Read more : Where can I get bond market quotes ? | Investopedia <URL>
The probability of a single # 1 bond winning a prize in any given month are 1/24000 ( see <URL> - the linked terms and conditions say that a bond unit is # 1 ) . Ignoring the small probability of two or more bonds winning in the same month , that makes the probability of a win in a single month from # 100 of bonds equal to 1/240 . So , at current interest rates , the expected wait is 20 years . However since the probability of winning varies with interest rates , which are currently quite low by historical standards , the real expected wait from now is probably lower .
HELOCs are often priced as Prime + / - 1/2 % or so . There 's not one " HELOC " rate , the banks will vary between them , and the rate will also change based on customer FICO score and loan to value . The <URL> can easily be found by searching . Today , it 's 3.25 % . If you search for today 's HELOC rate you 'll see a range of 3-5 % . For a single number " average , " I 'd use .5 % as an adder to prime .
A decent list can be found here : <URL> . Keep in mind that you will need to read the IRS codes regarding these for details , but those are the common deductions when you itemize your Federal personal income tax in the United States of America .
As an ordinary shareholder , yes you are protected from recourse by the debtors . The maximum amount you can lose is the amount you spent on the shares . The rules might change if you are an officer of the company and fraud is alleged , but ordinary stockholders are quite well protected . Why are you worried about this ?
That 's the kind of strategy that " works until it does n't . " Some people have observed daily , monthly , " seasonal " patterns in trading that exist , usually for psychological reasons . These observations work until enough people " catch on . " Then they move the calendar . In order to continue to succeed , you have to keep one step ahead of the crowd .
Some eligible expenses include : - Sunscreen ( SPF 30 and greater ) - Band Aids - Tylenol and Advil - Mileage driven for medical care ( at a rate of 24 cents/mile ) - Vision expenses ( glasses , contacts , contact solution , eye drops , etc ) - Chiropractor visits - Airborne - Anti-decongestants You should be able to go to a local drug store and see what items are eligible to be purchased through with your Flexible Spending Account ( ask at the counter ) . We also have a website that only sells FSA eligible items and ships directly to your home if you want to check out that option . Please let me know if you have any more Flexible Spending Account Questions or need more ideas .
I could n't find historical data either , so I contacted Vanguard Canada and Barclays ; Vanguard replied that This index was developed for Vanguard , and thus historical information is available as of the inception of the fund . Unfortunately , that means that the only existing data on historical returns are in the <URL> in your question . Vanguard also sent me a link to the <URL> Barclay 's uses when constructing this index , which you might find interesting as well . I have n't heard from Barclays , but I presume the story is the same ; even if they 've been collecting data on Canadian bonds since before the inception of this index , they probably did n't aggregate it into an index before their contract with Vanguard ( and if they did , it might be proprietary and not available free of charge ) .
I would n't think so . It has no positive value . It is in fact a liability . You owe a specific amount of money per month as a payment for the lease . You could owe additional charges at the end of the lease for excess miles or above average wear . If you need to get out of the lease there could be a penalty . At the end of the lease period you have nothing , except an option to buy the car . Which may or may not be a good deal depending on the exact terms of the lease contract . It does need to appear in your budgeting , and insurance is needed to prevent the liability from blowing up in your face if something happens to the car . You might also need insurance to make sure you can make the payments if you are unemployed or disabled . Though those risks are similar to a loan .
There are several neat ( and AFAICT completely undocumented ) resources on <URL> . For your needs I would recommend : / SymbolDirectory/nasdaqlisted . txt = US Tape C equities / SymbolDirectory/otherlisted . txt = US Tape A/B equities ( depending on the value of the column ) As for listings and delistings , I know I 've seen those updated in / SymbolDirectory/TradingSystemAddsDeletes . txt but I do n't know if there 's a historical archive for that info . NASDAQ may actually offer all this for download in a more supported way through their website , but the FTP has worked for me .
How long is a piece of string ? This will depend on many variables . How many trades will you make in a day ? What income would you be expecting to make ? What expectancy do you need to achieve ? Which markets you will choose to trade ? Your first step should be to develop a Trading Plan , then develop your trading rules and your risk management . Then you should back test your strategy and then use a virtual account to practice losing on . Because one thing you will get is many losses . You have to learn to take a loss when the market moves against you . And you need to let your profits run and keep your losses small . A good book to start with is Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van Tharp . It will teach you about Expectancy , Money Management , Risk Management and the Phycology of Trading . Two thing I can recommend are : 1 ) to look into position and trend trading and other types of short term trading instead of day trading . You would usually place your trades after market close together with your stops and avoid being in front of the screen all day trying to chase the market . You need to take your emotion out of your trading if you want to succeed ; 2 ) do n't trade penny stocks , trade commodities , FX or standard stocks , but keep away from penny stocks . Just because you can buy them for a penny does not mean they are cheap .
As usual on a marketplace - depends on the buyers and sellers . Any country would love its bonds to be denominated in its own currency . However , the bond buyers need to trust the currency the bonds issued in , otherwise they would n't invest . Bond terms vary as well . Some have fixed interest , some variable , some promise inflation adjustments , some do n't . Again - whatever the buyers and the sellers can agree upon . In the US for example , the bonds are denominated in the US dollars , own currency . Some bonds have inflation protection ( as mentioned by JB King ) . However , in Greece , the bonds are denominated in EUR , which is the currency used in Greece , but not controlled by Greece . In Russia , bonds are denominated in EUR or USD , neither is used nor controlled by the Russians . Similarly most of the world uses USD or EUR for international transactions with very rare exceptions . Thus the country 's inflation does n't affect the bond value ( the US/EUR inflation does , though ) .
For stock splits , let 's say stock XYZ closed at 100 on February 5 . Then on February 6 , it undergoes a 2-for-1 split and closes the day at 51 . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 51 on Feb 6 , but all of the closing prices for the previous days will be divided by 2 . So for Feb 5 , it will say the closing price was 50 instead of 100 . For dividends , let 's say stock ABC closed at 200 on December 18 . Then on December 19 , the stock increases in price by $ 2 but it pays out a $ 1 dividend . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 200 on Dec 18 and 201 on Dec 19 . Yahoo adjusts the closing price for Dec 19 to factor in the dividend .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
For a lot of info on different funds , fees , average returns , etc , see <URL> . ( Not all sections are free - but areas like Best of the Rest are , and they offer good basic starting info . ) I think for getting further into the nitty-gritty , for example if a fund is socially responsible , you will need to go to the individual fund sites or read reviews - although sites like Morningstar may help . However , a few funds like this are : <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( I 'm with the latter ) . It might be useful to check out their sites to orient yourself to the Aussie approach to this issue , and then start searching more broadly from there . And for what it 's worth , for a general overview of the Superannuation system , and some nice-to-know info , see <URL> on the Oz govt website .
There are several reasons to pay for data instead of using Yahoo Finance , although these reasons do n't necessarily apply to you if you 're only planning to use the data for personal use . Yahoo will throttle you if you attempt to download too much data in a short time period . You can opt to use the Yahoo Query Language ( YQL ) , which does provide another interface to their financial data apart from simply downloading the CSV files . Although the rate limit is higher for YQL , you may still run into it . An API that a paid data provider exposes will likely have higher thresholds . Although the reliability varies throughout the site , Yahoo Finance is n't considered the most reliable of sources . You ca n't beat free , of course , but at least for research purposes , the Center for Research in Security Prices ( CRSP ) at UChicago and Wharton is considered the gold standard . On the commercial side , data providers like eSignal , Bloomberg , Reuters also enjoy widespread popularity . Although both the output from YQL and Yahoo 's current CSV output are fairly standard , they wo n't necessarily remain that way . A commercial API is basically a contract with the data provider that they wo n't change the format without significant prior notice , but it 's reasonable to assume that if Yahoo wanted to , they could make minor changes to the format and break many commercial applications . A change in Yahoo 's format would likely break many sites or applications too , but their terms of use do state that Yahoo " may change , suspend , or discontinue any aspect of the Yahoo! Finance Modules at any time , including the availability of any Yahoo! Finance Modules . Yahoo! may also impose limits on certain features and services or restrict your access to parts or all of the Yahoo! Finance Modules or the Yahoo! Web site without notice or liability . " If you 're designing a commercial application , a paid provider will probably provide technical support for their API . According to Yahoo Finance 's license terms , you ca n't use the data in a commercial application unless you specifically use their " badges " ( whatever those are ) . See <URL> . In <URL> , a Yahoo employee states : The Finance TOS is fairly specific . Redistribution of data is only allowed if you are using the badges the team has created . Otherwise , you can use YQL or whatever method to obtain data for personal use . The <URL> itself states that you may not : sell , lease , or sublicense the Yahoo! Finance Modules or access thereto or derive income from the use or provision of the Yahoo! Finance Modules , whether for direct commercial or monetary gain or otherwise , without Yahoo! 's prior , express , written permission In short , for personal use , Yahoo Finance is more than adequate . For research or commercial purposes , a data provider is a better option . Furthermore , many commercial applications require more data than Yahoo provides , e.g. tick-by-tick data for equities , derivatives , futures , data on mergers , etc. , which a paid data source will likely provide . Yahoo is also known for inaccuracies in its financial statements ; I ca n't find any examples at the moment , but I had a professor who enjoyed pointing out flaws in the 10K 's that he had come across . I 've always assumed this is because the data were manually entered , although I would assume EDGAR has some method for automatic retrieval . If you want data that are guaranteed to be accurate , or at least have a support contract associated with them so you know who to bother if it is n't , you 'll need to pay for it .
Magstripe : No . ( And maybe not even that much . ) Chip : Gods only know , but I doubt it . The purpose of the chip is to provide secure authentication of the card . It has no reason to do more than that .
A closed-end fund is a collective investment scheme that is closed to new investment once the fund starts operating . A typical open-ended fund will allow you to buy more shares of the fund anytime you want and the fund will create those new shares for you and invest your new money to continue growing assets under management . A closed-end fund only using the initial capital invested when the fund started operating and no new shares are typically created ( always exception in the financial community ) . Normally you buy and sell an open-end fund from the fund company directly . A closed-end fund will usually be bought and sold on the secondary market . Here is some more information from <URL> Some characteristics that distinguish a closed-end fund from an ordinary open-end mutual fund are that : it is closed to new capital after it begins operating , and its shares ( typically ) trade on stock exchanges rather than being redeemed directly by the fund . its shares can therefore be traded during the market day at any time . An open-end fund can usually be traded only at the closing price at the end of the market day . a CEF usually has a premium or discount . An open-end fund sells at its NAV ( except for sales charges ) . Another distinguishing feature of a closed-end fund is the common use of leverage or gearing to enhance returns . CEFs can raise additional investment capital by issuing auction rate securities , preferred shares , long-term debt , and/or reverse-repurchase agreements . In doing so , the fund hopes to earn a higher return with this excess invested capital .
If you owe a lot of money ( more then $ 500 or $ 1000 ) you will get hit with penalties . You will also have to file every quarter the next year . That is very painful . There is a safe harbor if you make sure that you have withheld more money than your taxes from the previous year . The information you provided is not enough for me to give specific advice . But here is a hint : Right after you file this year , use turbo tax to determine what changes you can make to your withholding to minimize any excess withholding .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
end question
start question
Will a stop order get triggered if the floor is hit and trading is halted ?
During a <URL> , no trading occurs . These policies have been implemented to maintain exchange liquidity since the NYSE nearly went bankrupt during <URL> because many members had become insolvent . If an order is filled before the halt , it will stand unless busted . During <URL> , many orders were busted .
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
There are lots of sub-parts to your question . Let 's takle them one at a time . Should I worry about an IRA at this age ? Absolutely ! Or at least some form of retirement account . When you are young is the BEST time to start putting money into a retirement account because you have so much time for it to grow . <URL> . Even if you can only afford to put a very small amount in the account , do it ! You will have to put a heck of a lot less money into the account over your working career if you start now . Is there a certain amount you need for the IRA deduction ? No . Essentially with a traditional IRA you can just subtract the amount you deposited ( up to the contribution limit ) from your income when calculating your taxes . What kind of IRA should I get ? I suggest a ROTH IRA , but be warned that with that kind you get the tax breaks when you retire , not now . If you think taxes will be higher in 40 years or so , then the Roth is a clear winner . Traditional IRA : Tax deduction this year for contribution ; investment plus gains are taxed as income when you take the money out at retirement . Roth IRA : Investment amount is taxed in the year you put it in ; no taxes on investment amount or gains when you take it out at retirement . Given the long horizon that you will be investing , the money is likely going to at least double . So the total amount you are taxed on over your lifetime would probably be less with the ROTH even if tax rates remain the same . Is the 401K a better option ? If they offer a match ( most do ) then it is a no-brainer , the employer 401K always comes out on top because they are basically paying you extra to put money into savings . If there is no match , I suggest a Roth because company 401K plans usually have hidden fees that are much higher than you are going to pay for setting up your own IRA or Roth IRA with a broker .
<URL> and <URL> allow shipping packages with COD ( Collect on Delivery ) option . You tell them how much to collect , and they will hold the package and attempt to collect it from the receiver and then remit to you . If they can not collect - they 'll return the package to you . In the ( post - ) Soviet Union republics , the local post offices provide ( d ) similar services . If you 're shipping from/to these areas - check with the postal service if they have it . However , that may be only limited to the postage costs ( I believe that 's the case with the USPS ) .
The value of Coins &amp; Currency is more of Demand Vs Supply Situation . The value of Coins is not just due to it being old , but also - due to how many are available in the market Vs how many people want to buy that . - The condition of the coin - The percived historical importance - The metal used . Older coins were based on Gold/Silver - The design , how pleasing it looks For example the 1876 US Nickel around 300,000 were minted . The 1916 US Nickel around 400,000 were minted . However the 1916 Nickel is at more premium than the 1876 . This is because there are many collectors who want to complete the collection post 1900 . They can never complete the 1800 to 1900 collection as other year coins are not available . It is hard to tell which currency will catch craze amongst collectors . That 's what will drive the prize . For example if 50 years from now , Zimbabwe becomes a leading developed country , there will be craze / nostaliga to collect things of past . Certain coins like the American Double Eagle are a craze becuase the design is very good , its made of Gold , has history to it . Its sold for USD 7-8 Million , Or the USD 1 Dollar uncut sheets [ 16 notes in a sheet ] , the sheet goes for around 1-2 Million USD As an individual if you have some coins / currencies keep them more as a hobby than as something that would return value . Investements in Collectibles and Art is an emerging form of investment and needs to be looked at seperately and should ' nt be mixed with a simple hobby .
Using any simulator will never be exactly the same as real trading . One reason is that a simulator will always execute your trades at the exact price you want , but that may not always happen in real life . For example , if you place a limit order to buy 1000 shares of a stock at 10.50 , and the price drops down to exactly 10.50 , then the simulator will execute your trade and you will have 1000 shares at 10.50 . But in real life , the price of the stock may drop to 10.50 , but other people may have buy orders ahead of you . If the price of the stock drops to 10.50 but then starts going up again , you may not get all the shares that you wanted ( or you may not even get any shares at all ) due to the fact that people were ahead of you . In real trading there is also <URL> , which you do n't see in a simulator . For example , if you have a stop order to sell 1000 shares of a stock if it drops to 7.50 , then the simulator will sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if the price drops to 7.50 . But in real trading , if the price drops to 7.50 , then you may not be able to sell all 1000 shares at 7.50 if there 's not enough liquidity or the market is moving very fast . You may end up selling 100 shares at 7.50 , 100 shares at 7.49 , 100 shares at 7.48 , 50 shares at 7.47 , 50 shares at 7.46 , 200 shares at 7.45 , and 400 shares at 7.44 . Another thing is that you do n't experience the emotional aspect of trading with a simulator . If you buy a stock in a simulator and it goes down , it 's not real money , so you may be more willing to hold it and wait for it to come back up . But if you are trading real money and the stock goes down , you may not be so willing to hold if it goes down . You may be more apt to sell the stock for a small loss before the loss gets too big .
I am going to try to take your questions one at a time : Why there is an investment min This is because the mutual fund company has decided to set this level , although it varies from fund to fund and fund company to fund company . It is usually dictated by the style of the investment and the fund company . Advantages of higher minimums include less record-keeping with small accounts and ensuring that you have " more serious " investors . Plus , mutual funds end up using your money to buy underlying investments , so lots of little amounts are less useful to them , likely . the buying cost is a lot more expensive than buying stocks ? Again , depends on the company and its objectives . I suppose you are less likely to be buying and selling mutual funds more often ( and they like it this way ) , so a larger fee cuts down on day trading and also helps the company make money . There are plenty of fund companies that offer their funds commission-free , however ( such as Vanguard ) . Is the investment min only for the initial buying or do I have to buy at least 10k each time when I want to add more value to it ? A mutual fund company will likely have both a minimum initial investment and a minimum additional investment , although the latter is likely much smaller . So , for example , you may have a $ 10k initial minimum , then a $ 500 minimum additional investment . Do I have to pay the same commission fee every time when I buy more of the same mutual fund ? Likely , yes . There may be exceptions on things like reinvested dividends , but check the details of the mutual fund account . These should be obviously laid out in a fees table . Why is the investment min and commission fees are waived in my 401k account ? This is due to an agreement that your employer has with the provider . Minimums are likely waived since there are a bunch of people at this employer all investing in the same funds . Commissions are waived as a part of the cost of providing the 401k to you .
What you are saying is a very valid concern . After the flash crash many institutions in the US replaced " true market orders " ( where tag 40 = 1 and has no price ) with deep in the money limit orders under the hood , after the <URL> raised concerns about the use of market orders in the case of large HFT traders , and concerns on the lack of liquidity that caused market orders that found no limit orders to execute on the other side of the trade , driving the prices of blue chip stocks into the pennies . We also applaud the CFTC requesting comment regarding whether it is appropriate to restrict large order execution design that results in disruptive trading . In particular , we believe there are questions whether it is ever appropriate to permit large order algorithms that employ unlimited use of market orders or that permit executions at prices which are a dramatic percentage below the present market price without a pause for human review So although you still see a market order on the front end , it is transformed to a very aggressive limit in the back end . However , doing this change manually , by selling at price 0 or buying at 9999 may backfire since it may trigger fat finger checks and prevent your order from reaching the market . For example <URL> rejects orders that are priced too aggressively and do n't comply with the range of valid prices . If you want your trade to execute right now and you are willing to take slippage in order to get fast execution , sending a market order is still the best alternative .
There are two obvious cases in which your return is lower with a heavily leveraged investment . When the interest payments on the loan outweigh the return . If a $ 100,000 investment of your own cash yields $ 1000 that 's a 1 % return . If you put in $ 50,000 of your own money and borrow $ 50,000 at 2 % , you get a 0 % return Whenever returns are negative ( After factoring in the interest as above . ) If you buy an investment for $ 100,000 and it loses $ 1000 , that 's a -1 % return . If you borrow $ 100,000 and buy two investments , and they both lose $ 1000 , that 's a -2 % return .
I 'd say that it can not be meaningfully calculated or measured because the two are just too different in every way . Poker is zero-sum all individual games are fully independant of each other . has a large random component , but the properties of this random influence are exactly statistically known . players have incomplete knowledge due to said randomness , but all have the same amount of knowledge . player skill consists of knowing said statistics and analyzing and influencing the behavior of individual other players . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , skilled players will eat you alive . Stock trading is zero-sum in the short term , but not in the long term . a large number of games is constantly running in parallel ( and even overlapping ) , and they are all highly correlated ( this may be the most fundamental difference ) . has almost no truly random components , but an effectively infinite number of influencing factors , which can make it appear random . players have incomplete knowledge because of that . But the amount of knowledge varies widely between players . player skill consists of gaining more knowledge ( research , fundamental analysis , insider trading ) , identifying which influence factors are most important ( fundamental analysis ) , and finding and exploiting correlations ( technical analysis ) . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , you 'll just lose money on trading fees . I guess the last point ( that someone relying on luck is exploitable in poker but not in stock trading ) could be interpreted as stock trading being based more on luck , while the second and third points indicated that poker has more true randomness and is thus based more on luck . Something both have in common is that people who have been losing money are often tempted to take stupid risks which lose them everything .
What you propose puts you at risk to owe tax next April . If you are using the Traditional , pre-tax account , $ 100 you put in will reduce the tax withheld , so you might see $ 70 less in your check . By bumping the allowances you withhold even less . If the employer is doing it right , the allowances do n't change for the fact that your 401 ( k ) changes deposits . Edit - To clarify - Traditional 401 ( k ) are withheld pretax . The effect is that my W2 reflects a box 1 Wages figure that is lower than either my Social Security wages or Medicare wages . All else being equal , 2 people with same number of W4 allowances , first has $ 60K income with a $ 10K 401 ( k ) deduction , the second has $ 50K income . The federal tax withholding should be identical as payroll withhold on the same $ 50K for each . My <URL> may help explain this a bit more . To specifically answer your last edited line , if your W4 is perfect , and you increase 401 ( k ) deductions , aside from trivial anomalies , it should remain perfect .
No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which has lost a million residents over the past few decades . There is plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it was sold . Other markets are very risky , like Florida , where speculators drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drops in real estate are masked because sellers just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price is if you absolutely had to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much better than that . It is the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that makes most of the returns . In urban markets that are getting an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of markets that do this are rare . Also , if you look at it strictly as an investment ( as opposed to the question of " Is it worth it to own my own home ? " ) there are a lot of additional costs that you have to recoup , from property taxes to bills , rental headaches etc. . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approached with the same due diligence .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would rate index futures , in particular the US index futures ( e.g. the S&amp;P 500 future ) as the most liquid markets after the forex markets .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
This does n't directly pertain to international transactions but may be relevant . I got an American Express gift card over the holidays , and I tried to use it at an online merchant . The card was declined because it failed address verification . I called American Express gift card services ( number was on the gift card ) , and they knew immediately what the problem was and fixed it . They simply took my address and added it as a billing address on the card . I retried the payment and it went through right away . It may be worth calling the gift card company and asking them to simply add your billing address .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
end question
start question
When does Ontario 's HST come into effect ?
It looks like the HST will be in effect in Ontario on July 1st , 2010 . As to whether it will replace GST with HST for all services , it looks like some sectors may get special treatment : <URL> . But it does n't look final yet . However , I would suggest that most service-based businesses in Ontario need to prepare to start charging 13 % HST instead of 5 % GST . It will be the law . On the " goods " side of the new harmonized tax , it looks like certain goods will still be exempt from the provincial portion . Here 's a quote from the <URL> : " Books , diapers , children 's clothing and footwear , children 's car seats and car booster seats , and feminine hygiene products would be exempt from the provincial portion of the single sales tax . " Here 's some additional information on the introduction of the HST , from the province : <URL> . And finally , another interesting article from the Ottawa Business Journal : <URL> UPDATE : I just received an insert from Canada Revenue Agency included with my quarterly GST statement . Titled " Harmonization of the Sales Tax in Ontario and British Columbia " , it contains a section titled " What this means for you " ( as in , you the business owner ) . Here 's an excerpt : [ ... ] All Ontario and B.C. registrants would need to update their accounting and point-of-sale systems to accomodate the change in rate and new point-of-sale rebates for the implementation date of July 1 , 2010 . The harmonization of the sales tax in Ontario and B.C. may affect the filing requirements of registrants outside of these two provinces . Registrants will report their HST according to their current GST filing frequency . As a result of the harmonization , there will be changes to the rebates for housing and public service bodies . More information will be released as it becomes available . Visit the CRA web site often , at <URL> , for the most up-to-date information on the harmonization of the sales tax and how it may affect you . [ ... ] Last , I found some very detailed information on the HST here : <URL> . Chances are anything you want to know is in there .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
First off , the basics on HST/GST : You do n't need to collect HST , if you do n't want to , until you hit 30k in a particular three month period ( assuming you 're not regularly passing $ 30k ) . You then need to collect on the sale that takes you over $ 30k plus all sales after that . See <URL> for example : [ B ] usiness goes through the roof , generating more than $ 30,000 in one particular three-month period . In this case , the day the sale goes through that took you over that $ 30,000 threshold becomes the day you cease to be a small supplier . You must charge GST/HST on the sale that put you over the $ 30,000 limit , and on all sales after that , even if you are not yet registered . You now have 29 days to register with the government . Alternately , if you hit 30k over four three-month periods ( i.e. , a year ) , then you are exempt until the end of that fourth three-month period , after which you must register and collect HST the month after : [ R ] evenues in excess of $ 30,000 during four ( or fewer ) previous , consecutive three-month periods . You will be considered to be a small supplier for those four calendar three-month periods , plus the next month . Your first sale after that additional month , and all sales thereafter , will have to include GST/HST . You will have 29 days from the first day of the second month to register . However , many businesses do collect HST/GST even under that limit , in particular as it means you can collect tax refunds for your input HST/GST paid . If you do so , then you simply register from the start , and then you do n't need to worry about it . You do need to remit those taxes collected , though . If you do n't remit , you wo n't be able to collect tax rebates for your input HST/GST . You decide to become a GST/HST registrant when you start your business . You expect to exceed the $ 30,000 threshold at some time in the near future . You also want to receive any GST/HST paid back from the government on all expenditures especially those high startup costs . And , as <URL> recommends : In most cases , it 's generally a good idea to register for GST/HST as soon as your business is established . Provided that your business makes ( or will make ) taxable or zero-rated supplies , early registration ensures that GST/HST paid on costs incurred is recoverable since tax paid prior to registration is generally not recoverable except on the purchase of inventory , capital property and prepaid services still on hand at the time of registration . Be sure to register early because , in many situations , registering late can result in the loss of recoverable GST paid before registration .
The fact that you got your check does n't mean you 're not going to be audited . It just means that your return was properly filed and accepted . Audit notices usually start to appear at about half a year after returns are filed , and come as late as 3 years after . In fact , your tax return can be audited many years after you filed it , if the information on it affects a future year tax liability ( for example - depreciation deduction , passive activity , NOL , capital losses , foreign tax credits , and many other things that can stretch into the future ) .
Institutions and market makers tend to try and stay delta neutral , meaning that for every options contract they buy or write , they buy or sell the equivalent underlying asset . This , as a theory , is called max pain , which is more of an observation of this behavior by retail investors . This as a reality is called delta hedging done by market makers and institutional investors . The phenomenom is that many times a stock gets pinned to a very even number at a particular price on options expiration days ( like 500.01 or 499.99 by closing bell ) . At options expiration dates , many options contracts are being closed ( instutitions and market makers are typically on the other side of those trades , to keep liquidity ) , so for every one standard 100 share contract the market maker wrote , they bought 100 shares of the underlying asset , to remain delta neutral . When the contract closes ( or get rid of the option ) they sell that 100 shares of the underlying asset . At mass volume of options traded , this would cause noticeable downward pressure , similarly for other trades it would cause upward pressure as institutions close their short positions against options they had bought . The result is a pinned stock right above or below an expiration that previously had a lot of open interest . This tends to happen in more liquid stocks , than less liquid ones , to answer that question . As they have more options series and more strike prices . No , this would not be illegal , in the US attempting to " mark the close " is supposedly prohibited but this would n't count as it , the effect of derivatives on stock prices is far beyond the SEC 's current enforcement regime :) although an active area of research
You can only make deposits into an ATM that your bank owns ( or has some special relationship with ) . You can make withdrawals from any ATM . UPDATE : Comments show that there are some credit unions that have special relationships with other banks/credit unions and allow you to make deposits into their machines .
If you were making that large of a payment ( via a cashiers check or other withdrawal means from a cash account ) to a credit card , would the payment generate a Cash Transaction Report ? Probably , yes . If it does require the bank to make a CTR , then is there any harm in that or anything to be concerned about ( like that transaction appearing suspicious , personal reporting implications , etc. ) ? Are there any other reasons why one might want to make sure payments to a credit card are broken up made * in amounts smaller than $ 10K ? You should be concerned if you can not explain the source of the money ( legally ... ) . If you withdrew cash from your own account and paid your credit card with it , in case of questions asked you can show the account statement with the matching withdrawal , and you 're done . The point in this report is to point at people who move around large amounts of cash . Usually , people pay credit cards with checks or ACH transactions , but if you want cash - it 's your right , as long as the cash was obtained legally . But if you 're paying your credit cards off with the cash you got as a bribe or by selling cocaine on the streets , then you should be worried . By the way , breaking into smaller payments may not save you from being reported to the money laundering detection agencies . The report is per transaction , not per payment , so if the credit card statement is $ 11K and you pay $ 5K and $ 6K - the transaction is still $ 11K . Also , the bank can file a report even if it is not required ( it was clarified in the other answer to the same question you 're referring to ) , if the clerk thinks the transaction is suspicious . This leaves the decision on filing a report solely on the banks " common sense " and internal policies which you do n't know . So even paying $ 10 in cash may trigger a report if the bank suspects wrongdoing .
You can do a trustee to trustee exchange . You will need to contact both companies to coordinate the paperwork . As long as both accounts are the same type ( traditional \ Roth ) you are fine . You can also do a rollover where you have the check but there are some limitations and deadlines which are avoided by the trustee to trustee exchange . For example the IRS limits the number of rollovers to one a year . You can have multiple accounts of the same type . The annual contribution limits can be split across accounts . Rollovers and transfers are not part of annual contribution limits .
When you buy a share of stock , you are almost always buying from someone who previously purchased that share and now wants to sell it . The money -- minus broker 's fee -- goes to that other investor , which may be a person , a company ( rarely the company that issued the stock , but that will occasionally be the case ) , an investment fund , the " market maker " for that stock ( websearch for definition of that term ) , or anyone else . They owned a small percentage of the company ; you bought it from them and gave them the money for it , just as you would buy anything else . You do n't know or care who you bought from ; they do n't know or care who they sold to ; the market just found a buyer and seller who could agree on the price . There are a very few exceptions to that . The company may repurchase some of its own shares and/or sell them again , depending on its own financial needs and obligations . For example , my own employer has to purchase its own shares periodically so it has enough on hand to sell to employees at a slight discount through the Employee Stock Ownership Program . But you generally do n't know that 's who you 're selling to ; it happens like any other transaction . And during the Initial Public Offering , if you 're lucky/privileged enough to get in on the first wave of purchases , you 're buying from the investment bank that 's managing this process ... though that 's an almost vanishingly rare case for " retail " investors like us ; we 're more likely to get the shares after someone has already pushed the price up a bit . But really , when you buy a share the money goes to whoever you bought it from , and that 's all you can know or need to know .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
It could be a a way to preserve the value of your money , but depends upon various factors . If a country defaults , and it leads to hyper-inflation , by definition that means that money loses its purchasing power . In even simpler terms , it can not buy as much tomorrow as I could today . Therefore people can be incented to either hoard physical goods , or other non-perishable items . Real-estate may well be such an item . If you are resident in the country , you have to live somewhere . It is possible that a landlord might try to raise rent beyond what your job is willing to pay . Of course , in a house , you might have a similar situation with utilities like electricity ... Assuming some kind of re-stabilization of the economy and currency , even with several more zeros on the end , it is conceivable that the house would subsequently sell for an appropriately inflation adjusted amount , as other in-demand physical goods may . Lots of variables . Good Luck .
To me this sounds like a transaction , where E already owns a company worth 400k and can therefore pocket the money from D and give D 25 % of the profits every year . There is nothing objective ( like a piece of paper ) that states the company is worth 400K . It is all about perceived value . Some investors may think it is worth something because of some knowledge they may have . Heck , the company could be worth nothing but the investor could have some sentimental value associated to it . So is it actually the case that E 's company is worth 400k only AFTER the transaction ? It is worth what someone pays for it when they pay for it . I repeat - the 400K valuation is subjective . In return the investor is getting 25 % ownership of the product or company . The idea is that when someone has ownership , they have a vested interest in it being successful . In that case , the investor will do whatever he/she can to improve the chances of success ( in addition to supplying the 100K capital ) . For instance , the investor will leverage their network or perhaps put more money into it in the future . Is the 100k added to the balance sheet as cash ? Perhaps . It is an asset that may later be used to fund inventory ( for instance ) . ... and would the other 300k be listed as an IP asset ? No . See what I said about the valuation just being perception . Note that the above analysis does n't apply to all Dragons Den deals . It only applies to situations where capital is exchanged for ownership in the form of equity .
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
It depends on the countries involved ... The ATM or Credit cards are expensive options in terms of rates ... The best deals are with the currency exchange counters [ not at airport ] at some busy places ... One needs to find out which is stronger currency , ie is the demand more for foreign currency or local currency ... For example if you have USD and are travelling from US to any Asian countries , it makes sense to exchange the USD in the local Asian countries as the demand for USD is more in these local markets , it would be a bad idea for excahange this in US [ for some currencies the option may also not be available ] If you are trying to exchange between 2 equally strong currencies [ say USD , GBP , EUR , etc ] then it doesnt matter much where you get it changed ... One also needs to consider local practises , for example in UK , most currency houses charge a Conversion fee above the rate making it a very bad deal .
Chase does not have to verify the identity of John Doe . No new credit account is being established , so the identity check requirements are not required . The account is still owned by Larry alone ; adding an authorized user does not modify the credit agreement between Larry and Chase . Larry is the person taking the risk of adding an authorized signer , not Chase . It is Larry 's concern to verify the identity of John Doe . Every bank can decide at their discretion if/how authorized users are reported to the credit bureau ( s ) . You may submit a request asking them to report or not report , but it is unlikely they will deviate from a standard policy to honor your request .
No , that link shows returns for an index and not a fund ! Note at the bottom : Index performance is provided as a benchmark . It is not illustrative of any particular investment . An investment can not be made in an index . What format would you expect the dividends to actually be handled as some old Unit Investment Trusts would just collect the dividends as cash while some mutual funds may re-invest the proceeds right away ? <URL> has this part on page 539 : The dividends must be retained as cash and invested , in effect in money market instruments until the dividend payment is made . Thus , while you may think your question is simple there are more than a few ways to go . <URL> has this : Annual total returns are calculated on a calendar-year and year-to-date basis . Total return includes both capital appreciation and dividends . The year-to-date return is updated daily . For mutual funds , return includes both income ( in the form of dividends or interest payments ) and capital gains or losses ( the increase or decrease in the value of a security ) . Morningstar calculates total return by taking the change in a fund 's NAV , assuming the reinvestment of all income and capital gains distributions ( on the actual reinvestment date used by the fund ) during the period , and then dividing by the initial NAV . Unless marked as load-adjusted total returns , Morningstar does not adjust total return for sales charges or for redemption fees . Total returns do account for management , administrative , and 12b-1 fees and other costs automatically deducted from fund assets .
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
end question
start question
Where to find out conversion ratio between General Motors bonds and new GM stock ?
Looks like the result got decided recently , with a little uncertainty about exactly how much is the total allowed claims : <URL> http://www.wilmingtontrust.com/gmbondholders/pdf/GUC_Trust_Agreement.pdf They give the following example : Accordingly , pursuant to Section 5.3 of the GUC Trust Agreement , a holder of a Disputed Claim in the Amount of $ 2,000,000 that was Allowed in the amount of $ 1,000,000 ( A ) as of the end of the first calendar quarter would receive : Corresponding to the Distribution to the Holders of Initial Allowed Claims : 3,571 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 3247 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 3247 sh new GM 1000 units Corresponding to the First Quarter Distribution to Holders of Units : 43 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 39 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 39 sh new GM Total : 3614 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 3286 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 3286 sh new GM
Whether your financial status is considered " OK " depends on your aspirations . You are n't spending more than you earn and have no debt . That puts you in the category of OK in my book , but the information in your post indicates that you would benefit from some financial advice -- 100 grand sounds like a lot of money to have in a bank unless you are on the verge of spending it . Financial advisors come in various shapes and sizes . Many will charge you a lot for what turns out to be helpful advice in the first meeting , but very little value-added thereafter . Some do n't have the best incentives ( they may be incentivized to encourage you to put your money into certain funds , for example ) . There are many financial advisors ( of sorts ) that you have access to that wo n't cost you anything . For example , if you have a 401 ( k ) at work , I bet there is a representative from the plan administrator that will meet with you for free . If you open a brokerage account or IRA at any place ( Fidelity , Vanguard , etc. ) you can easily talk with one of their reps and get all sorts of advice . My personal take is to meet with anyone who will meet with me for free , but not to pay anyone for this service . It 's too easy to get good advice and paying for it does n't guarantee that you get better advice . Your financial situation will depend primarily on a few things you have not mentioned here . For example , How much are you setting aside for retirement and what are your retirement goals ? This is something lots of people can give you advice on , but we do n't know what market returns will be going forward so we do n't really know . One bit of advice that may benefit you is how to set aside money for retirement in the most tax advantaged way . How much do you feel that you need saved up for large expenses ? Thinking of starting a family ? How many months worth of income are you comfortable having set aside ? What is your tolerance of risk ? If you put your money in risky assets , you may make more , but you may also actually lose money . Those are the questions a financial advisor will ask about . Once you have his/her advice -- and preferrably after talking to a few advisors -- you can make your own decision . Basically , your options are : Keep saving in banks or other safe assets ( make sure you are using the highest interest-rate paying bank you can find ) Put additional money into an IRA or other retirement vehicle in order to save on taxes Open a ( normal , taxable ) brokerage account and start buying financial assets . Buy real assets , like real estate , gold1 , collectibles , guns1 , etc. . Rules of thumb : Save only what makes sense to save in banks given your expected needs for cash . Put a lot in tax advantaged accounts ( do n't give Uncle Sam any gifts ) . Then look at financial and real investments . There are a number of free resources on the internet . For example <URL> . Or you can hit up the forums at <URL> . Those guys give and receive financial advice as a hobby . They are n't professionals , but you can get a lot of varying ideas and make up your own mind , which to me is better than ( just ) asking a professional . BTW , regarding the ESPP : these plans often give you a discount on stock and can therefore be a good idea . Just be sure you do n't hold the stock longer than you need to . It 's generally a bad idea to concentrate your wealth in any single investment , especially one highly correlated with your background risk ( i.e. , if the company does poorly you will already be worse off because you may lose your job or see fewer advancement opportunities . No need to add losses in your savings to that ) . 1 Please note : I am neither advocating nor discouraging buying guns , gold , or other controversial real assets . I 'm just giving examples of items some people buy as part of their wealth-preservation strategy .
Did that twice . You do n't have to do it . I was told that mortgage company expects you to live there at least a year before you can convert it to an investment . No idea how that is enforced . But i am sure if you lived there for a few years and made your payments and keep making the payments you 'll be fine . All they care about is that you make your payments .
Just before a crash or at the start of the crash most of the smart money would have gotten out , the remaining technical traders would be out by the time the market has dropped 10 to 15 % , and some of them would be shorting their positions by now . Most long-term buy and hold investors would stick to their guns and stay in for the long haul . Some will start to get nervous and have sleepless nights when the markets have fallen 30 % + and look to get out as well . Others stay in until they can not stand it anymore . And some will stick it out throughout the downturn . So who are the buyers at this stage ? Some are the so called bargain hunters that buy when the market has fallen over 30 % ( only to sell again when it falls another 20 % ) , or maybe buy more ( because they think they are dollar cost averaging and will make a packet when the price goes back up - if and when it does ) . Some are those with stops covering their short positions , whilst others may be fund managers and individuals looking to rebalance their portfolios . What you have to remember during both an uptrend and a downtrend the price does not move straight up or straight down . If we take the downtrend for instance , it will have lower lows and lower highs ( that is the definition of a downtrend ) . See the chart below of the S&amp;P 500 during the GFC falls . As you can see just before it really started falling in Jan 08 there was ample opportunity for the smart money and the technical traders to get out of the market as the price drops below the 200 MA and it fails to make a higher peak . As the price falls from Jan 08 to Mar 08 you suddenly start getting some movement upwards . This is the bargain hunters who come into the market thinking the price is a bargain compared to 3 months ago , so they start buying and pushing the price up somewhat for a couple of months before it starts falling again . The reason it falls again is because the people who wanted to sell at the start of the year missed the boat , so are taking the opportunity to sell now that the prices have increased a bit . So you get this battle between the buyers ( bulls ) and seller ( bears ) , and of course the bears are winning during this downtrend . That is why you see more sharper falls between Aug to Oct 08 , and it continues until the lows of Mar 09 . In short it has got to do with the phycology of the markets and how people 's emotions can make them buy and/or sell at the wrong times .
I have several as well , ( acquired the same way as you ) and I am happy with the idea . They are very stable and that is the reason they pay so little . I do n't think you can get a low risk and medium ( or high ) return . The interest does reset every six months so you do get a bit of the market , should the fed set interest rates higher , you bonds will eventually reflect that . Bonds and Certificates of Deposit are just one element of your investment portfolio . Put the money you ca n't lose into bonds , the money you can into higher risk stocks . Bonds are great from our grandparent 's perspective because they are NOT going to lose value . ( My grandparents were depression era folks who wanted that stability ) They are trivial to give as gifts . Most other investment forms require a heavy bit more of legal work I would think .
<URL> will work as DumbCoder states , but did n't contain LEHMQ ( Lehman Brother 's holding company ) . You can use Yahoo for companies that have declared bankruptcy , such as Lehman Brothers : <URL> but you have to know the symbol of the holding company .
You 're looking for a <URL> . Discount brokers " charge clients significantly lower fees than traditional brokerage firm but without providing investment advice . Discount brokers typically allow investors to buy and sell securities on-line while offering comparatively fewer services and/or support . " To use one of your examples , <URL> allows you to trade stocks , ETF 's , mutual funds , bonds , options , futures , currencies , etc. . Depending on what securities you choose to trade and what discount broker you use , you may still have to pay commissions and satisfy margin requirements . Some investment firms like E-Trade , Fidelity , etc. will also offer full investment management and brokerage services , but you 're not required to pay for them or take advantage of them . Another thing to keep in mind is that if you 're just starting out investing and only have a small amount of money to invest , commissions could quickly eat up all of your profits if you buy and sell fairly frequently . <URL> may give you a little more guidance for investing small amounts in securities like mutual funds instead of individual stocks , bonds , etc. . You might find the answers to these questions helpful as well : <URL> <URL> Some of the answers specifically refer to stock trading , but if you 're unsure about which securities a specific brokerage firm allows you to trade , a quick online search for " &#60; brokerage firm &#62; investment choices " should clear up the confusion . Alternatively , just call the firm and ask or surf their website .
If you are afraid of your government defaulting , then you also have reason to fear that your country 's so-called " AAA " corporate bonds might not be a safe investment . When governments default , they often do things like : Confiscate their subjects ' financial assets . This can include directly seizing corporate bonds , and/or taking away the assets that the corporations were relying on to pay their bills . Increase income taxes and other taxes . In extreme cases , this is not much different from confiscation . Inflate the currency . This reduces the value of both government bonds and corporate bonds ( that are paid in that currency ) . Impose price controls . This can prevent corporations from doing business . Impose " bank holidays " , which can prevent you from receiving payments on corporate bonds . " Borrow " and/or confiscate local government cash reserves . Delay payment of government obligations . This can cause corporations to go bankrupt . Refuse to pay government obligations , or insist on a " cramdown " . This can also cause corporations to go bankrupt . In these scenarios , it is not predictable whether government bonds will suffer more or less than any particular corporate bonds . You might want to diversify into precious metals , foreign currencies , and/or foreign securities . For the most security , you might want to choose investment vehicles that your government would have a hard time confiscating . Of course , you will face currency fluctuation risks if you do so .
LVR is Loan To Value Ratio . If we are buying a property of $ 100,000 with a loan of $ 75,000 , the LVR is 75 % . It is applicable to India as well . In Indian Context it is typically called Debt Equity Ratio . For most of the bank , if we are buying house of INR25 ,00,000 an LVR of 75 % will be asked by the bank . This means the buyer has to pay 25 % from his own sources .
As usual on a marketplace - depends on the buyers and sellers . Any country would love its bonds to be denominated in its own currency . However , the bond buyers need to trust the currency the bonds issued in , otherwise they would n't invest . Bond terms vary as well . Some have fixed interest , some variable , some promise inflation adjustments , some do n't . Again - whatever the buyers and the sellers can agree upon . In the US for example , the bonds are denominated in the US dollars , own currency . Some bonds have inflation protection ( as mentioned by JB King ) . However , in Greece , the bonds are denominated in EUR , which is the currency used in Greece , but not controlled by Greece . In Russia , bonds are denominated in EUR or USD , neither is used nor controlled by the Russians . Similarly most of the world uses USD or EUR for international transactions with very rare exceptions . Thus the country 's inflation does n't affect the bond value ( the US/EUR inflation does , though ) .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
Looks like the result got decided recently , with a little uncertainty about exactly how much is the total allowed claims : <URL> http://www.wilmingtontrust.com/gmbondholders/pdf/GUC_Trust_Agreement.pdf They give the following example : Accordingly , pursuant to Section 5.3 of the GUC Trust Agreement , a holder of a Disputed Claim in the Amount of $ 2,000,000 that was Allowed in the amount of $ 1,000,000 ( A ) as of the end of the first calendar quarter would receive : Corresponding to the Distribution to the Holders of Initial Allowed Claims : 3,571 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 3247 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 3247 sh new GM 1000 units Corresponding to the First Quarter Distribution to Holders of Units : 43 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 39 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 39 sh new GM Total : 3614 shares new GM $ 10.00 warrants to acquire 3286 sh new GM $ 18.33 warrants to acquire 3286 sh new GM
A couple of points . You may be able to re-sell the bond after the first year , but you wo n't be guaranteed all your money back : it will still be worth the same in 30 years , but it may not be worth the same tomorrow . If interest rates rise , the price of a new 30-year bond will fall . Since your 29-years-left bond is almost equivalent , you should expect that its face value will also fall . The 30-year bond is the most vulnerable to interest rate risk , since it is so long-term : a little difference in rate will change things a lot after thirty years . Note also that interest rates are at or near historic lows ; they have very little room to fall and a lot of room to rise . Your brokerage , bank , or credit union can help you re-sell your Treasury bonds . You may wish to investigate the process and any fees involved . They will probably be willing to tell you all about it . I can not meaningfully comment on the spreads involved . The Treasury itself may also provide some tools ; visit <URL> and learn more . You may also wish to consider consider a bond mutual fund or ETF . They can be bought or sold like stocks , which may be a more comfortable and convenient process for some people . Note that the interest rate risk in these funds is different than for a bond , because they are continually reinvesting ; the risk does not fall as the bond gets closer to maturity . Read the prospectus .
I prefer TaxAct . I find it simpler to use and more helpful in helping answer the questionnaire . I have a fairly complex tax return and it handles it just fine .
<URL> can be screened by <URL> which is an index of correlation . Finviz covers all major North American exchanges and some others .
United States For press releases about economic data , the Bureau of Economic Analysis <URL> is helpful . Depending on the series , you could also look at the Bureau of Labor Statistics <URL> . For time series of both historical and present data , the St. Louis Federal Reserve maintains a database such data , including numerous measures of GDP , called <URL> . They list nearly <URL> series related to GDP alone . FRED is extremely useful because it allows you to make graphs that indicate areas of recession , like this : On the series ' <URL> , there 's a bold link on the left side to download the data . If you simply need the most recent data , it 's listed below the graph on that page . If you 're interested in a more in-depth analysis , you can use the Bureau of Economic Analysis as well , specifically the <URL> , which are most of the numbers that feed into the calculation of GDP . FRED also archives some of these data . Both FRED and the BEA compile data on numerous other economic benchmarks as well . Other general sources for a wide range of announcements are the <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> economic calendars . These provide the dates of many economic announcements , e.g. existing home sales , durable orders , crude inventories , etc. . Yahoo provides links to the raw data where available ; Bloomberg and the WSJ provide links to their article where appropriate . This is a great way to learn about various announcements and how they affect the markets ; for example , the <URL> durable orders announcement recently pushed markets down a few points . Europe For Europe , look at <URL> . On the left side of the page , they list links to common data , including <URL> . They list the latest releases on the home page that I previously linked to . Global sources For the sake of keeping this question short , I 'm lumping the rest of the world into this paragraph . Data for many other countries is maintained by their governments or central banks in a similar fashion . The World Bank 's <URL> also has relevant data like Gross National Income ( GNI ) , which <URL> to GDP , but it 's another ( less common ) macroeconomic indicator . You can also look at the economic calendar on <URL> or <URL> , which list events for the US , Europe , Australasia , and some Latin American countries . If you 're only interested in the US , the Bloomberg or Yahoo calendars may have a higher signal-to-noise ratio , but if you 're interested in following how global markets like currency markets respond to new information , a global economic calendar is a must . Dailyfx.com also has a global <URL> that , according to them , is specifically geared towards events that affect the forex market . Governments/Central Banks As I said , governments and central banks compile a lot of this data , so to make searching easier , here are a few links to statistical agencies and central banks for major countries . I compiled this list a while ago on my personal machine , so although I think all the links are accurate , leave a comment if something is n't quite right . Statistics <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Central banks <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL> / <URL>
To add to ChrisH 's response : In addition to front end load and back end load , there are also fund expenses for trading , management , administration , etc. . These expenses are rolled up and reported as the fund 's Management Expense Ratio ( MER ) . Furthermore , there are also funds that are sold on a No Load basis , which means you do n't pay either a front or back end load type of commission . However , MERs are always present . Funds may also pay trailer fees to the advisors that sell them . These are small commission amounts paid each year . All of these fees add up and can consume a significant portion of your expected investment return . For instance , if the fees total 2 % per annum and you expect to earn 8 % per annum , then 25 % of your expected returns are going to fees . ( Most people only consider the 2 % and think that 's small ; it is n't , when expressed in terms of your returns ! ) Prefer no-load funds with low MERs . Funds with loads and higher fees do n't outperform the market . Do your own research to convince yourself of this . Finally -- you can usually look up the fees for a fund in its simplified prospectus . Do n't buy a fund without understanding what it invests in , how it is managed , and what fees are charged for buying , holding , and selling it .
Current typically refers to a time line shorter than 12 months . At least that 's what it means in the US , I 'd imagine the same applies in the UK . A current asset is something like cash , or a very short term security ; a 9 month CD for example . A current liability can be something like a payable to a vendor . There is also a situation where you have the current portion of a long-term liability . That could be the amount of a long term loan that 's due in the next 12 months .
I maybe uninformed , but I have n't heard of a broker that lets you trade with credit cards or Paypal .
Where goes the Delta ? To the sea , of course . Your question is very valid and for once , I think most of the answers are too involved into mechanical details and are badly missing the big picture . At the risk of over simplifying things , let me try to describe the situation in broad strokes : Inflation : the volume of money grows faster than production ( including services ) . Deflation : production increase faster than the volume of money . Imagine an economy with 10 products and $ 10 . 1 product = $ 1 . In an inflationary scenario , money available increase : $ 20 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 2 . In a deflationary scenario , money available decrease : $ 5 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 0.5 . So far , it 's pretty textbook . Now onto the stuff that you do n't usually read in textbooks : Time . Say 10 people are attending an auction , each with $ 10 bucks . 10 items are for sale . $ 100 and 10 items . Item price is $ 10 . Now , if just before opening the bidding , you go around and give each person $ 40 , every one has $ 50 . Each product sells for $ 50 . That 's the picture people have of inflation . Prices have increased , but everybody has more money , so it comes down to the same thing . Now , let 's bring this example closer to reality : You have to distribute $ 400 , so the total amount of money is $ 500 , which means that the normal price of each item should be $ 50 . Now , imagine that instead of giving money to everyone at the same time , you started by giving $ 40 to 1 guy who was hanging out in front . The auction starts . While you go around distributing the money , the first guy manages to buy 2 items at $ 10 each . Now , there is $ 480 in the market , and only 8 items , making each item $ 60 on average . The next guy to get money manages to snap 2 items at $ 15 . 6 items left and $ 450 in play . Each item now costs $ 75 ... and keep increasing in price as things move along . People who get the money early buy items under their real value , and people who get paid at the end pick up the tab , because by then , there are only a few items left . Back to reality , while inflation means that wages eventually increase ( and they do ) , actual purchasing decrease for most people due to this simple trick . Employees are pretty much at the end of the chain . Income tax Another major source of " signal loss " is income tax . It works by brackets , as you certainly know . Simplifying again because I am lazy : Take a guy who earns $ 100 . Pays no taxes . Can buy 100 products at $ 1 each . Now , put in some inflation ... He earns $ 500 . He pays $ 50 in taxes and can buy 90 products at $ 5 each . By the time he earns $ 10,000 , he can only buy 50 products on account of income tax . So this is another area where you are bleeding purchasing power , and why income tax , which was originally presented as a tax for the ultra-rich is now a fact of life for most people ( except the ultra-rich , of course ) . Money as debt Next stop : Money itself . Money is created as debt in our society . At the risk of over-simplifying things again , let 's say Bank A has $ 1000 in assets . In the fractional reserve system ( our current system ) , Bank A can lend out many times over that amount . Let 's say $ 9,000 , for a total of $ 10,000 ( much more in reality ) . And of course , it lends that money at interest . When bank A has made $ 10,000 available through 10 % interest loans , the total amount of money has increased by $ 10,000 , but when the loans are paid back , $ 11,000 must be paid to the bank , so the net result of the operation is that $ 1,000 get taken out of the market . This system explains why almost all companies and governments have huge debts , and why most of the world 's large companies belong to financial institutions of some kind , and why most of the world 's wealth rest in very very few hands . To fully answer your question and provide details and references and names , one would have to write a book or 5 . There is a lot more than can be said on the subject , and of course , all the examples given here are extremely simplified , but I think they illustrate the key issues pretty well . Bottom-line is that our system is designed that way . Our economic system is rigged and the delta bleeds out on automatic .
end question
start question
Can I convert my 529 college savings plan to a Coverdell ESA ?
You can roll a Coverdell ESA into a 529 , but you can not go the other way around . 529 's have contribution limits an order of magnitude higher than that of a Coverdell ESA . If you could roll a 529 into a Coverdell , it would defeat the purpose of the limit on the ESA .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
Regarding transferring a residential investment property into your SMSF , no you can not do it . You can not transfer residential property into your SMSF from a related party . You can only transfer Business Real Property ( that is commercial or industrial property ) into a SMSF from a related party . You can buy new residential property inside your SMSF , and you can also borrow within the fund ( using a non-recourse loan ) to help you buy it , or you could buy it as tenants-in-common with your SMSF ( that is you own say 50 % in your own name and 50 % under the SMSF ) . Regarding self-managing the investment properties held in your SMSF , yes you can , but you should make sure all your paperwork is in order ( all your t 's crossed and your i 's dotted ) . You can even charge your SMSF for managing the properties , but this should be at market rates ( not more ) .
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
Yes , you can . You 're thinking of a <URL> , or a 529 plan under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act and the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act . It refers to account in a 529 plan funded with money already owned by your minor child . Because minors generally can not directly own an investment or bank account , an adult custodian must manage and use the funds for the benefit of the minor child as prescribed under the state 's Uniform Gifts to Minors Act ( UGMA ) or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act ( UTMA ) . Another name frequently used for a 529 account opened with UGMA/UTMA money is " custodial 529 account . " Nearly all 529 savings plans have special procedures to accommodate UGMA/UTMA 529s . For example , the plan administrator will not permit changes in the beneficiary designation prior to the current beneficiary 's 18th or 21st birthday ( depending on the state ) . And when the current beneficiary reaches the age of legal ownership , he or she will have the right to contact the 529 plan administrator and take direct ownership and control of the 529 account . Speak to the 529 plan provider about this , but depending on the state where the 529 plan is incorporated , you should be able to take advantage of the UGMA to name your son as both the donor and the beneficiary . Edward Jones ( not an endorsement ; it 's one of the <URL> ) has this to say : Custodial accounts are governed by laws adopted by each state . These laws include the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act ( UGMA ) and the Uniform Transfer to Minors Act ( UTMA ) . Every state has enacted the UGMA . All but two states , South Carolina and Vermont , have adopted the UTMA . A Custodial 529 account is established when assets in an existing custodial account ( UGMA/UTMA ) are liquidated and invested in a 529 plan . The account is administered by an adult , or custodian , until the beneficiary reaches the age of termination as determined by state law . Once the child reaches the age of termination , he or she will have complete control of the assets . At this time the assets should be moved out of the custodial account and into the child 's name for qualified higher education expenses . Custodial 529 accounts may be appropriate for an investor who currently has a custodial account and wants to make an irrevocable gift , in the form of cash , to a minor for qualified higher education expenses . Correct me if I 'm wrong , but I think this is exactly what you 're after .
IRA is an account . You can open as many as you want . What 's limited is the contributions : you can not deposit to the IRA ( all of them combined ) more than what you 've earned during the year , or $ 5500 ( for 2013 ) , the lowest . There are also limits on how much you can deduct , depending on your income and availability of other retirement programs at your work . You can open as many IRAs as you want in your child 's name , but if your child had only earned $ 500 this year - that 's how much you can put in these accounts . Your wife and you share the earned income limit , so if your wife is not working , you can still contribute to the IRA in her name , based on your own earnings ( i.e. : if you earned more than $ 11000 - you can contribute the maximum $ 5500 for each of you ) . The limits are for all the IRA combined , does n't matter how many accounts you have , and how many of them are Roth .
You can roll a Coverdell ESA into a 529 , but you can not go the other way around . 529 's have contribution limits an order of magnitude higher than that of a Coverdell ESA . If you could roll a 529 into a Coverdell , it would defeat the purpose of the limit on the ESA .
As long as you are disciplined about it , you can certainly have your emergency fund and other savings funds in one account . Multiple accounts may incur added costs , since you may not have the minimum balances to avoid the fees . Some banks provide tools or account features to help track separate " buckets " of funds within one account . One important principle for an emergency fund is liquidity . Those funds should be easily accessible , ideally without withdrawal penalties or transaction costs . For this reason , certificates of deposit ( CD ) or money market funds should be avoided for this purpose . Another important principle , for any savings fund , is capital preservation/safety . That money should not be held in risky assets . Depending on the purpose of the fund , you may consider other options beyond just a savings account . For example , you may consider placing funds for a house in CD ( s ) early on , before you are actually looking for the house . As you get closer to having enough for a down payment , you would shift that money into a savings account . One drawback of such an approach is the extra management that this requires on your part . A spreadsheet is a simple way to track these funds , though that requires more manual management and discipline to do that tracking . It also requires some knowledge of spreadsheets , but it provides you with flexibility so you can create a process that works well for you . Any accounting software should allow you to do this in some fashion with ( hopefully ) less effort than maintaining a spreadsheet , though you may have to do things in a certain way that may be awkward in some cases . Those are the basic principles that come to mind . I am sure others can provide more specific suggestions , like banks which allow you track buckets of funds or accounting software that can help you track the funds .
<URL> will help . It confirms the ESA permits you to change beneficiaries . But the plan document must allow this , so it 's back to the broker .
There are several paths of study you could undertake . If you want to learn the fundamentals of the stock market and become a financial analyst , then finance , economics , and accounting ( yes , accounting ) are all good to study either on your own or in an institution . Furthermore , if you want to study a specific industry , it ca n't hurt to know a fair amount of the science behind that particular industry . For example , if you want to understand the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries , knowledge of clinical trials , the FDA 's approval process ( in the US , at least ) , off-label uses for drugs , genetic engineering , etc. are all good to know . You do n't have to become an expert , but having a firm grasp on the science is extremely useful when evaluating a company 's prospects . If you 're interested in becoming an algorithmic trader or a quant , then physics , certain fields of engineering , signals processing , applied math , computer science , or econometrics will get you much farther than a standard finance or accounting degree . Most people can learn the basics of finance ; not everyone can learn advanced mathematics . A lot of the above applies to learning about the forex market as well . Economics is certainly helpful , especially central bank policy , but since the forex market is so massive and liquid , many mathematical tools are necessary because algorithms play a key role as well . Per littleadv 's suggestion , an MBA with a concentration in finance may be an option for someone who already has a degree . Also , an MSF ( Master of Science in Finance ) or a degree in financial engineering ( called an MFE , or ORFE , for Operations Research and Financial Engineering ) are other , potentially better options for someone pursuing a more technical career . A high-octane trading firm may not care that you 've taken marketing and management classes ; they want to hire someone who can understand complex algorithms and design and implement new ones quickly . <URL> are pre-experience programs , which means that in exchange for taking more time to complete , they do n't expect you to have significant work experience in the financial industry . An MBA might require such experience , however .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
When in doubt , call ( the card issuer ) and ask . Ask if you overpay your current bill if the overpayment becomes available credit and tell them why you are asking . It can go either way .
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
I found a way to do this , but it 's slightly backwards . Quicken does not allow you to make a graph of just your income , probably because that would be a fairly boring graph for most people . But it does allow you to do a graph of your expenses . Doing so , while including income categories , will produce the graph I want , but with negative numbers ( savings is negative spending ) . Go to Reports - > Reports and Graph Center in the main menu . In the Quicken Standard Reports section , go to Spending by Category Click the Customize button . On the Customize Spending by Category window , on the Categories tab , add all Income and Expense categories ( but no Bank categories ) . Click Show Graph . Set the Column to Month . This will switch it from a pie chart to a bar graph This will show a bar graph of overall spending , counting income as Negative Spending . So , having negative bars is good in this case .
I 'd pile up as much cash as you can in a savings account - you will need money for the move ( even if it 's just gas money ) and it 's going to be hard to predict where house prices are going so you might or might not be underwater when it comes time to sell the house . Or you might be so deep underwater by then that the extra money does n't make much of a difference anymore anyway . Once you 're actually in the process of selling the house , you can figure out if you can ( or need to ) use the savings to cover the shortfall , closing costs or if you just built up a little wealth during the time you put the money aside .
Is your ( and your spouse 's , I assume ) retirement fund in order ? Make sure you 're on track with that first . Your children are slated to go to college starting around 2024 . The value of a college education is already being called into question now . I expect this scrutiny to continue . A lot of schools offer a junker education at Ferrari prices . College does n't have to cost in the six-figure range . How about low five figures ? Take CLEP exams to place out of as many classes as possible -- perhaps up to two full years . Then look for deals for the other two years . This can be paid for with a part-time job while living at home . That , and if your kids get bitten by the entrepreneurial bug , they might see college as a waste of time . Worry less about the tax savings that you 'd get with a 529 plan and worry more about bringing down the cost of the education . That savings will dwarf what you 'd save with the 529 .
The simplest , most convenient way I know of to " move your savings to Canada " is to purchase an exchange-traded fund like , the , or a similar instrument . ( I identify this fund because I know it exists , not because I particularly recommend it . ) Your money will be in Canadian currency earning Canadian interest rates . You will pay a small portion of that interest in fees . Since US banks are already guaranteed by the FDIC up to $ 250,000 per account , I do n't really think you avoid any risks associated with the failure of an individual bank , but you might fare better if the US currency is subject to inflation or unfavorable foreign-exchange movements - not that such a thing would be a direct risk of a bank failure , but it could happen as a result of actions taken by the Federal Reserve under the auspices of aiding the economy if the economy worsens in the wake of a financial crisis - or , for that matter , if it worsens as a result of something else , including legislative , regulatory , or executive policies . Read the prospectus to understand additional risks with this investment . One of them is foreign-exchange risk . If the US economy and currency strengthen relative to the Canadian economy and its currency , you may lose substantial amounts of purchasing power . Additionally , one of the possible results of a financial crisis is a " flight to safety " ; the global financial markets still seem to think the US dollar is pretty safe , and they may bid it up as they have done in the past , resulting in losses to your position ( at least in the short term ) . I do not personally recommend moving all your savings to Canada , especially if it deprives you of income from more profitable investments over the long term , but moving some of your savings to Canada at least is n't a stupid idea , and it may turn out to be somewhat profitable . Having some Canadian currency is also a good idea if you plan to spend the money that you are saving on Canadian goods in the intermediate future .
Here 's another wrinkle : neither New York nor New Jersey are community property states . So , your wife 's income is her , your income is yours , and they 're not related . You can just spend it together and give it to each other with no consequences . So if you are contributing from your income - I believe you can claim it as deductible in New York . If your wife is contributing , from her income - you can not . If you both are contributing - I 'd suggest some splitting rules , and portion attributed to you ( say , for example , 50 % ) will be deductible . Run this through your tax adviser , of course .
You can , but for incomes less than $ 58K you can also use <URL> . I 'm guessing IRS assumed that people would prefer to use software if they can , rather than raw forms . I would assume the same .
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
end question
start question
Should I include retirement funds in calculating my asset allocation ?
Personally , I do asset allocation separately for personal investing and for retirement investing , as I the two have vastly different purposes and I have vastly different goals for each . YMMV depending on how you view your non-retirement investments , and how close you are to retirement .
John 's answer is similar to what I was thinking . You should invest in insurance " because there 's an insurance salesman who needs to pay to send his kid to college . " I will never be a fan of any type of permanent insurance , and I think it wrong to sell a single person with no dependents such a policy . I 've used the expression " Variable Annuities are sold , not bought . " I feel the same about these insurance policies . The best advice I can offer in a short reply is this : If you need life insurance , buy term . Save as much as you can , 10 % minimum , more if you are able . A young person should be saving for retirement and to position them self to buy their first house , if that 's what they wish . What good is a full up Whole Life policy when you need to raise $ 40K to put down on a house ? Sorry to sound like I 'm lecturing , this is one of my hot points .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
You need to look at the numbers when you 're ready to transact . What your crossover is worth now , what the truck will lease for then , what financing deals may or may not be available will all change . I 'm not sure why you 've already decided you will lease the truck , perhaps you 're planning to take advantage of some kind of business write off . I would personally never put anything down on a lease , though I have argued with people on here about that particular decision . The reality is you need to look at the numbers . Some banks will adjust the interest you pay on your lease to account for your down payment , some do n't . Consider a $ 9,000 lease , $ 250 per month for 36 months . Consider you pay $ 1,000 up front as a down payment . Example 1 : $ 1,000 lowers the amount due on the lease to $ 8,000 lowering your monthly payment to $ 222.22 from $ 250 , the downpayment has accomplished nothing . Over the 36 months you will have still paid the same $ 9,000 . Example 2 : $ 1,000 up front changes the amount owed and other fees generally applicable to a lease ( gap insurance etc ) and your payment drops to $ 215 , your total over the lease is now $ 8,740 ( $ 1,000 down and $ 7,740 in payments ) . You need to look at the numbers . In general if you know you will be purchasing the truck at the end of the lease it 's more financially advantageous to just purchase it from the start .
[ Making my comment into an answer ] It 's not relevant how much you originally paid for the house or how much of your mortgage you have already paid off . To make it clear in the light of your comment : the equity you have in your old/current house is the current market value minus any outstanding mortgage debt . From the lender 's perspective , they will assume you need . Then they will look at the new mortgage amount against your salary . An old rule of thumb for the mortgage was a multiple of 3 times your annual salary , or 2.5 times the joint salary of a couple . Pre-credit-crunch when lenders were competing heavily for custom , this got stretched as far as 5 or 6 times salary . However this has now been replaced by affordability checks so a better way of looking at it would be to say that your monthly mortgage payment should not be more than about 40 % of your net monthly income ( after any debt repayment etc. has been taken off ) . There are plenty of mortgage calculators out there that will take a mortgage amount , term and interest rate and tell you what the monthly repayment will be . As always with this sort of thing - rather than blindly going with the maximum the bank will lend you , it is worth looking carefully at your own circumstances - what happens if you lose your job ( how easily will you be able to get another one ? ) , what happens if interest rates - which are very low and have been for a long time - rise , as they inevitably will . The other thing to remember is that buying a house incurs expenses over and above the pure cost of the house itself - conveyancing fees , search fees , survey fees , stamp duty etc. . Not to mention the stuff you always end up needing when you move house ( bits of DIY , furniture , sundries which all add up to a ridiculous amount ) . So also make sure you have enough left over out of the equation to afford all that .
On a similar quest . One of the lists I check daily are Google Finances lowest Betas bit.ly / GFscreener12 Shows me a handful of companies with healthy financials and each correlated to the market by 0.33 or less , so it does n't have to tank along with the S&amp;P 500 as much . Another using similar criteria but sorted by highest dividend yields : bit.ly / GFscreener11 To try and keep the results little correlated to each other , run that screener once for each of the 12 sectors , for example . Somewhere I used to use a site that measures and graphs direct correlations . Let me find that link and post back . <URL> 's one popular Correlation Tracker . Ah , yes . Remembered the one that 's been my favorite : <URL>
Look into the asset allocations of lifecycle funds offered by a company like Vanguard . <URL> allows you to select your current age and find a fund based on that . You could pick a fund , like the <URL> , and examine its allocation in the Portfolio &amp; Management tab . For this fund , the breakdown is : Then , look at the allocation of the underlying funds that comprise the lifecycle fund , in the same tab . Look at each of those funds and see what asset allocation they use , and that should give you a rough idea for an age-based allocation . For example , the <URL> page has a sector breakdown , so if you wanted to get very fine-grained with your allocation , you could . ( You 're probably much better off investing in the index fund , low-cost ETFs , or the lifecycle fund itself , however ; it 'll be much cheaper ) . Doing this for several lifecycle funds should be a good start . Keep in mind , however , that these funds are rebalanced as the target date approaches , so if you 're following the allocation of some particular funds , you 'll have to rebalance as well . If you really want an age-based allocation that you do n't have to think about , invest in a lifecycle fund directly . You 'll probably pay a lower expense ratio than if you invested in a whole slew of funds directory , and it 's less work for someone who is n't comfortable managing their portfolio themselves . Furthermore , with Vanguard , the expense ratios are already fairly low . This is only one example of an allocation , however ; your tolerance of risk , age , etc. may affect what allocation you 're willing to accept . Full disclosure : Part of my Roth IRA is invested in the Target 2055 fund I used as an example above , and another part uses a similar rebalancing strategy to the one I used above , but with <URL> funds , which have higher minimum investments but lower expense ratios .
Nope , do n't do it . Basic math shows this ... as you pay down your HELOC , you will pay less and less interest , eventually you will have it paid off . Look at what your RRSP will be worth even using a low rate of return over the next 20 or 30 years . It will likely show that it would really cost you a LOT more if you cashed in .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
I believe the Investopedia article is incomplete . As you can see in other articles like this : <URL> CAPEX applies to Long Term Assets in general , not just tangible ones . Therefore , CAPEX is both amortized and depreciated , depending on whether it is tangible or intangible . To quote , " Expenses incurred to acquire intangible assets such as goodwill , patents , etc. are also capital expenditure . "
I would definitely pay down the debt first . If it is going to take 15 years to do so , you probably need to allocate more money to paying down debt . Cut expenses by going out to eat less , and keeping spending to the bare necessities . You might even consider getting a second job , just for paying down the debt . If that is n't enough , consider selling off some assets . You should be able to come up with a plan to be debt free ( excluding maybe a regular mortgage ) within 3-5 years . Once the only debt you have is a home mortgage , then its time to look at putting money towards retirement again . Note , you should not take money out of a 401k or IRA to pay off debt . The costs for doing so are nearly always too great .
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
1 is pretty easy . Interest for a month can be calculated by taking your whole interest rate dividing it by 12 and applying it to your balance . Say your rate is 3.6 % . You divide that by 12 to get .3 % interest paid per month . Then take that rate ( .003 ) times your balance ( lets say 10000 ) So your monthly interest is 30 dollars . If you have a 35 dollar monthly payment 30 is going to pay interest 5 is being applied to principle . for 2 you can use <URL> or your can just go to <URL> which makes it easy for you to compare what adding a few extra dollars to your payment will do to your pay off date .
The two biggest issues that impact your question I would say are diversification and fees . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and only invest it in two securities , then a 20 % drop in one security can have you lose 10 % of your initial investment which I would consider a very high risk scenario . If you have $ 10,000 to invest and invest it in 20 securities , then a 20 % drop in one security would only cause you to lose 1 % of your initial investment . So far this is looking better from a diversification point of view . But then the issue of fees comes in . If you paid $ 10 per trade to buy those 20 securities you already spent 2 % of your initial investment in fees ! Not to mention you will pay at least another $ 200 to get out of all those positions . No right answer - but those are the two factors I always try to balance .
The ( assets - liabilities ) / #shares of a company is its book value , and that number is included in their reports . It 's easy for a fund to release the net asset value on a daily basis because all of its assets ( stocks , bonds , and cash ) are given values every day by the market . It 's also necessary to have a real time value for a fund as it will be bought and sold every day . A company ca n't really do the same thing as it will have much more diverse assets - real estate , cars , inventory , goodwill , etc. . The real time value of those assets does n't have the same meaning as a fund ; those assets are used to earn cash , while a fund 's business is only to maximize its net asset value .
He was most likely talking about <URL> ' mutual fund called <URL> . It lists January 1 , 1934 as its inception date , which is just over 78 years ago . As shown at the link above , it lists its cumulative annualized returns as of December 31 , 2011 to be 11.97 % ( not taking any loads into account ) . It does appear to be a relatively popular fund , with over 3.5 million shareholder accounts and over $ 50 billion in net assets . The fund is targeted primarily at American large-cap equities , and is actively managed . Commensurate with that , its expenses are higher than index funds ( the actual expense ratio and/or loads depend upon the share class that you choose ; the above link shows information for class A shares , which carry a somewhat hefty front-end load ) ; it 's up to you to choose between a higher-cost , actively-managed fund ( and hope that the managers are good at picking stocks ) versus a low-cost indexing approach promoted by companies like Vanguard . You 'll find people on both sides of that fence . However , as JoeTaxpayer already pointed out , the average return of the market over the same time period was very similar , or even better ( I 'm not sure exactly how the calculator he referenced arrived at the number ; the S&amp;P 500 did n't exist in its current form until 1957 ) , so it 's not clear that the management of this fund has added value from a total return standpoint . Depending upon your risk appetite , however , it may be worth looking a bit deeper to compare the fund 's volatility with that of the overall market ; a similar return with lower volatility might be desirable .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
There are several angles to this which you would need to investigate - there 's no one right answer to this . Not all schemes will accept transfers in , so that might rule it out completely . There may be a fee payable on one or both schemes for the transfer ( most likely the scheme you are transferring away from ) - you would need to look at the documentation to see whether this is the case and how much it is . You would need to look at the management fees on the two schemes and see whether it is actually advantageous to transfer or leave it where it is . Do both schemes offer the range of funds that you want to invest in ? If the SW scheme is invested in , say , ethical funds but the University one does n't offer such an option , you might not want to transfer . What is the performance of the funds ? Obviously past performance is n't necessarily an indicator of future performance , but if the SW fund is no longer being actively managed it may not have the same expectations of return . What is the protection on the investments - eg if SW goes bust are you entitled to anything ? You may want to keep the split arrangement if the protections are different . What other benefits are attached to the SW pension that you might lose ( eg a death in service benefit , a spousal annuity guarantee , etc. etc. ) ? These are just the questions I would ask off the top of my head - there may be others .
I will attempt to answer three separate questions here : Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? The standard answer is that an emergency fund should not be in an investment that can lose value . The safest course of action is to put it in a savings account or other very low risk investment somewhere . Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? This question becomes : can a reasonable and low risk investment in Sweden be comparable to or better than a low risk investment in Brazil ? Inflation in Brazil has averaged a little less than 6 % over the last 10 years with a recent spike up above 8 % . A cursory search indicates interest rates on savings accounts in Brazil are outpacing inflation so you might still expect a positive return on money in a savings account there . By contrast , Sweden 's inflation rate has been around 1 % over the last 10 years and has hovered around 0 or even deflation in recent years . Swedish interest rates for savings accounts right now are very low , nearly 0 % . Putting money in a savings account in Sweden would likely hold its value or lose a slight amount of value . Based on this , you might be better off leaving your emergency fund invested in BRL in Brazil . Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? The answer to this a little unclear . The Brazilian stock market has been all over the place in the last 10 years , with a slight downard trend in recent years . In comparison , Sweden 's stock market has shown fairly consistent growth in spite of the big dip in 2008 . Given this , it seems like the fairest comparison would your current 13 % ROI investment in Brazil vs. a fund or ETF that tracks the Swedish stock market index . If we assume a consistent 13 % ROI on your investment in Brazil and a consistent inflation rate of 6 % , your adjusted ROI there would be around 7 % per year . The XACT OMS30 ETF that tracks the Swedish OMS 30 Index has a 10 year annualized return of 9.81 % . If you subtract 0.8 % inflation , you get an adjusted ROI 9 % . Based on this , Sweden may be a safer place for longer term , moderate risk investments right now .
When you add points , a break-even date comes into play . That date varies depending on the rate and number of points . As an approximate example , having one point at those rates would have a break-even point of about 5 years . At that time , the amount you save with the lower rate makes up for the extra cash you paid for points . After that , you are saving money . If you do n't plan on having the loan that long , the points are not worth it . Also , you need to calculate the break-even date based on your own parameters . I suggest searching for an online calculator or spreadsheet that supports point calculations . You may also be able to deduct 1/30th of your points every year . Ask you accountant about that .
end question
start question
How and why does the exchange rate of a currency change almost everyday ?
It 's simply supply and demand . First , demand : If you 're an importer trying to buy from overseas , you 'll need foreign currency , maybe Euros . Or if you want to make a trip to Europe you 'll need to buy Euros . Or if you 're a speculator and think the USD will fall in value , you 'll probably buy Euros . Unless there 's someone willing to sell you Euros for dollars , you ca n't get any . There are millions of people trying to exchange currency all over the world . If more want to buy USD , than that demand will positively influence the price of the USD ( as measured in Euros ) . If more people want to buy Euros , well , vice versa . There are so many of these transactions globally , and the number of people and the nature of these transactions change so continuously , that the prices ( exchange rates ) for these currencies fluctuate continuously and smoothly . Demand is also impacted by what people want to buy and how much they want to buy it . If people generally want to invest their savings in stocks instead of dollars , i.e. , if lots of people are attempting to buy stocks ( by exchanging their dollars for stock ) , then the demand for the dollar is lower and the demand for stocks is higher . When the stock market crashes , you 'll often see a spike in the exchange rate for the dollar , because people are trying to exchange stocks for dollars ( this represents a lot of demand for dollars ) . Then there 's " Supply : " It may seem like there are a fixed number of bills out there , or that supply only changes when Bernanke prints money , but there 's actually a lot more to it than that . If you 're coming from Europe and want to buy some USD from the bank , well , how much USD does the bank " have " and what does it mean for them to have money ? The bank gets money from depositors , or from lenders . If one person puts money in a deposit account , and then the bank borrows that money from the account and lends it to a home buyer in the form of a mortgage , the same dollar is being used by two people . The home buyer might use that money to hire a carpenter , and the carpenter might put the dollar back into a bank account , and the same dollar might get lent out again . In economics this is called the " multiplier effect . " The full supply of money being used ends up becoming harder to calculate with this kind of debt and re-lending . Since money is something used and needed for conducting of transactions , the number of transactions being conducted ( sometimes on credit ) affects the " supply " of money . Demand and supply blur a bit when you consider people who hoard cash . If I fear the stock market , I might keep all my money in dollars . This takes cash away from companies who could invest it , takes the cash out of the pool of money being used for transactions , and leaves it waiting under my mattress . You could think of my hoarding as a type of demand for currency , or you could think of it as a reduction in the supply of currency available to conduct transactions . The full picture can be a bit more complicated , if you look at every way currencies are used globally , with swaps and various exchange contracts and futures , but this gives the basic story of where prices come from , that they are not set by some price fixer but are driven by market forces . The bank just facilitates transactions . If the last price ( exchange rate ) is 1.2 Dollars per Euro , and the bank gets more requests to buy USD for Euros than Euros for USD , it adjusts the rate downwards until the buying pressure is even . If the USD gets more expensive , at some point fewer people will want to buy it ( or want to buy products from the US that cost USD ) . The bank maintains a spread ( like buy for 1.19 and sell for 1.21 ) so it can take a profit . You should think of currency like any other commodity , and consider purchases for currency as a form of barter . The value of currency is merely a convention , but it works . The currency is needed in transactions , so it maintains value in this global market of bartering goods/services and other currencies . As supply and demand for this and other commodities/goods/services fluctuate , so does the quantity of any particular currency necessary to conduct any of these transactions . A official " basket of goods " and the price of those goods is used to determine consumer price indexes / inflation etc. . The official price of this particular basket of goods is not a fundamental driver of exchange rates on a day to day basis .
Aganju 's response above is spot-on . The rationale for the range of APY is ' banking compliance regulations . ' Our regulators require for the disclosure of what APY you could earn . Our Ultimate Account has tiered interest rates so if your balance was $ 5,000 all month , you could earn 5.00 % . But if your balance was $ 10,000 then the corresponding APY would be 2.54 % . Obviously there are countless iterations you could insert here for every balance possibility but the disclosure copy you see on our website is what our compliance folks felt best addressed the required deposit product advertising regulations . I realize the explanation above may not have cleared up how the numbers are what they are but it should explain why you see a range of APY figures quoted . Sincerely , Bill Clancy , Northpointe Bank
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
A " fiat " currency is non-convertible paper currency that a government establishes as legal tender . Most countries today are using fiat currencies . The rest have currencies pegged ( or convertible to ) US Dollars ( which is a fiat currency ) . In the past , money was usually based on precious metals such as gold or silver . Until the end of the gold standard , you could theoretically go the the US Treasury with a US Note or Federal Reserve Note and convert the note into a fixed quantity of gold or silver ( depending on the note ) . The US had a bi-metallic currency policy for political reasons , which means that money was backed by both gold and silver .
It basically only affects the company 's dealings with its own stock , not with operational concerns . If the company were to offer more stock for sale , it would get less cash . If it had a stock buy-back program , it could buy more shares for the same money . If it was to offer to acquire another company in exchange for its own stock , the terms would be less attractive to the other company 's owners . Employee stock remuneration , stock options , and so forth would be affected , so there might be considerations and tax consequences for the company .
A good way to measure the performance of your investments is over the long term . 25-30 % returns are easy to get ! It 's not going to be 25-30 % in a single year , though . You should n't expect more than about 4 % real ( inflation-adjusted ) return per year , on average , over the long term , unless you have reason to believe that you 're doing a better job of predicting the market than the intellectual and investment might of Wall Street - which is possible , but hard . ( Pro tip : It 's actually quite easy to outdo the market at large over the short term just by getting lucky or investing in risky askets in a good year . Earning this sort of return consistently over many years , though , is stupidly hard . Usually you 'll wipe out your gains several years into the process , instead . ) The stock market fluctuates like crazy , which is why they tell you not to invest any money you 're likely to need sooner than about 5 years out and you switch your portfolio from stocks to bonds as you approach and enter retirement . The traditional benchmark for comparison , as others have mentioned , is the rate of return ( including dividends ) from the Standard and Poors 500 Index . These are large stable companies which make up the core of larger United States business . ( Most people supplement these with some smaller companies and overseas companies as a part of the portfolio . )
I find <URL> to be a good start to understand what factors to look for . Other than that " good " is a very subjective . Here are some of the factors mentioned at that site : Regulation Data security Dealing spreads Commissions and fees Order types Currency pairs Deposit required Account types Leverage Margin requirements Trading platforms Mobile trading Algorithmic trading Market alerts Support Information resources Dealing desk access
While debt increases the likelihood and magnitude of a crash , speculation , excess supply and other market factors can result in crashes without requiring excessive debt . <URL> The <URL> . There were debt related issues for some companies and the run ups in stock prices were increased by leveraged traders , but the actual crash was the result of failures of start up companies to produce profits . While all tech stocks fell together , sound companies with products and profits survive today . As for recessions , they are simply periods of time with decreased economic activity . <URL> . In summary , debt is simply a magnifier . It can increase profits just as easily as can increase losses . The real problems with crashes and recessions are often related to unfounded faith in increasing value and unexpected changes in demand .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
Today typically a Business needs to hold accounts in more than one currency . Banks in certain countries are offering what is called a dual currency account . It is essentially 2 accounts with same account number but different currency . So One can have an account number say 123456 and have it in say AUD and USD . So the balance will always show as X AUD and Y USD . If you deposit funds [ electronic , check or cash ] in USD ; your USD balance goes up . Likewise at the time of withdrawal you have to specify what currency you are withdrawing . Interest rates are calculated at different percentage for different currencies . So in a nutshell it would like operating 2 accounts , with the advantage of remembering only one account number . Designate a particular currency as default currency . So if you do n't quote a currency along with the account number , it would be treated as default currency . Otherwise you always quote the account number and currency . Of-course bundled with other services like free Fx Advice etc it makes the entire proposition very attractive . Edit : If you have AUD 100 and USD 100 , if you try and withdraw USD 110 , it will not be allowed ; Unless you also sign up for a auto sweep conversion . If you deposit a GBP check into the account , by default it would get converted into AUD [ assuming AUD is the default currency ]
I wrote about the dynamic of why either of a lower or higher exchange rate would be good for economies in <URL> A strong currency allows consumers to import goods cheaply from the rest of the world . A weak currency allows producers to export goods cheaply to the rest of the world . People are both consumers and producers . Clearly , there have to be trade-offs . Strong or weak mean relative to Purchasing Power Parity ( i.e. you can buy more or less of an equivalent good with the same money ) . Governments worrying about unemployment will try and push their currencies weaker relative to others , no matter the cost . There will be an inflationary impact ( imported inputs cost more as a currency weakens ) but a country running a major surplus ( like China ) can afford to subsidise these costs .
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
Because the federal government wo n't use the money to buy a car thus generating profits for the car company . The aim of cheap loans is to drive sales of cars . The difference between the amount of interest paid on the loan , and the amount they could have got by investing it elsewhere , is simply a reduction in the profit . This is true whatever the actual interest rates are .
AFAIK , you ca n't get the lock until you submit the application .
As usual on a marketplace - depends on the buyers and sellers . Any country would love its bonds to be denominated in its own currency . However , the bond buyers need to trust the currency the bonds issued in , otherwise they would n't invest . Bond terms vary as well . Some have fixed interest , some variable , some promise inflation adjustments , some do n't . Again - whatever the buyers and the sellers can agree upon . In the US for example , the bonds are denominated in the US dollars , own currency . Some bonds have inflation protection ( as mentioned by JB King ) . However , in Greece , the bonds are denominated in EUR , which is the currency used in Greece , but not controlled by Greece . In Russia , bonds are denominated in EUR or USD , neither is used nor controlled by the Russians . Similarly most of the world uses USD or EUR for international transactions with very rare exceptions . Thus the country 's inflation does n't affect the bond value ( the US/EUR inflation does , though ) .
The total size of the eurozone economy is $ 13 trillion , whereas Switzerland 'd GDP is about $ 0.5 trillion , so the eurozone is about 26 times larger . As such , I would not expect this move to have a large effect on the eurozone economy . On the margins , this may decrease somewhat eurozone exports to Switzerland and increase imports from Switzerland , so this would be a slight negative for eurozone growth . Switzerland accounts for 5.2 % of the EU 's imports , and these imports will now be slightly cheaper , which puts some deflationary pressure on the EU , particularly in the Swiss-specialized industries of chemicals , medicinal products , machinery , instruments and time pieces . But overall , 5.2 % is a rather small proportion . Bottom line , most common eurozone countries ' people should probably not fret too much about this announcement . What it means for Switzerland and Swiss citizens , however , is a totally different ( and much more interesting ) question .
The key is that you need to use your debit card to earn the higher interest rate . The bank can offer a higher interest rate on accounts connected with a debit card because : They earn additional income through debit card fees charged towards account holders , among other things . They offer the higher interest rate specifically to encourage people to use their debit cards . By offering a joint checking/savings account that requires you to use your debit card , the bank is assuming that you 'll keep more money in your account than you would in a standard checking-only account . Your higher balance translates into more money the bank can loan out or invest , which usually leads to higher profit for them . <URL> These fees represent another source of profit for the bank . The more you use your debit card , the more the bank earns in fees , so the bank encourages you to use your debit card more frequently through incentives like a higher interest rate or waiving fees on your account if you use your card enough . Plus , since it 's likely that an individual who maintains a fairly high balance in an account linked to a debit card is going to spend more ( simply because they can spend more ) , banks will sometimes waive fees on the consumer side for balances over a certain amount .
I frequently use the Bret Whissel 's <URL> . Fill in all fields except for one and click calculate . The calculator will figure out the value for the field that was left blank . For your example , you would be able to take out a mortgage of $ 178,155.99 ( $ 800/mo for 30 years at 3.5 % ) . You could buy a house for $ 222,695 with 20 % down ( $ 44,539 ) .
This is only a rule of thumb . Peter Lynch popularized it ; the ratio PE/growth is often called the <URL> . At best it 's a very rough guideline . It completely ignores the balance sheet . It makes no distinction between accounting earnings and cash flow . It does n't consider qualitative characteristics like management competence . I could fill up this page with other caveats . I 'm not saying that it 's wrong , only that it 's grossly incomplete . For a 10 second eyeball valuation of growth stocks , it 's fine . But that 's the extent of its usefulness .
Is the balance ( in dollars , say ) automatically converted to rupees when I try to : You ca n't transact on this account like you do on savings account . So there is NO ATM/Debit Card/Net Banking . You have to walk-in to the Branch and withdraw in local currency or in travel cards as required . Am I correct in understanding that a resident foreign currency account can not have deposits made into it in rupees , say if someone wants to transfer money to me using IMPS ? Deposits are restricted . <URL>
end question
start question
Anticipating being offered stock options in a privately held company upon employment . What questions should I ask ?
The company does n't necessarily have to go public . They can also be worth money if the company is acquired . Also keep in mind that even if the company does eventually go public , your shares can essentially be wiped out by a round of pre-IPO funding that gives the company a low valuation . You could ask : what is the size of the employee pool ? how many classes are outstanding ? was the last round up or down ? what is the mechanism to exercise your options ? can you exercise whenever you want ?
There are many different methods for a corporation to get money , but they mostly fall into three categories : earnings , debt and equity . Earnings would be just the corporation 's accumulation of cash due to the operation of its business . Perhaps if cash was needed for a particular reason immediately , a business may consider selling a division or group of assets to another party , and using the proceeds for a different part of the business . Debt is money that ( to put it simply ) the corporation legally must repay to the lender , likely with periodic interest payments . Apart from the interest payments ( if any ) and the principal ( original amount leant ) , the lender has no additional rights to the value of the company . There are , basically , 2 types of corporate debt : bank debt , and bonds . Bank debt is just the corporation taking on a loan from a bank . Bonds are offered to the public - ie : you could potentially buy a " Tesla Bond " , where you give Tesla $ 1k , and they give you a stated interest rate over time , and principal repayments according to a schedule . Which type of debt a corporation uses will depend mostly on the high cost of offering a public bond , the relationships with current banks , and the interest rates the corporation thinks it can get from either method . Equity [ or , shares ] is money that the corporation ( to put it simply ) likely does not have a legal obligation to repay , until the corporation is liquidated ( sold at the end of its life ) and all debt has already been repaid . But when the corporation is liquidated , the shareholders have a legal right to the entire value of the company , after those debts have been paid . So equity holders have higher risk than debt holders , but they also can share in higher reward . That is why stock prices are so volatile - the value of each share fluctuates based on the perceived value of the entire company . Some equity may be offered with specific rules about dividend payments - maybe they are required [ a ' preferred ' share likely has a stated dividend rate almost like a bond , but also likely has a limited value it can ever receive back from the corporation ] , maybe they are at the discretion of the board of directors , maybe they will never happen . There are 2 broad ways for a corporation to get money from equity : a private offering , or a public offering . A private offering could be a small mom and pop store asking their neighbors to invest 5k so they can repair their business 's roof , or it could be an ' Angel Investor ' [ think Shark Tank ] contributing significant value and maybe even taking control of the company . Perhaps shares would be offered to all current shareholders first . A public offering would be one where shares would be offered up to the public on the stock exchange , so that anyone could subscribe to them . Why a corporation would use any of these different methods depends on the price it feels it could get from them , and also perhaps whether there are benefits to having different shareholders involved in the business [ ie : an Angel investor would likely be involved in the business to protect his/her investment , and that leadership may be what the corporation actually needs , as much or more than money ] . Whether a corporation chooses to gain cash from earnings , debt , or equity depends on many factors , including but not limited to : ( 1 ) what assets / earnings potential it currently has ; ( 2 ) the cost of acquiring the cash [ ie : the high cost of undergoing a public offering vs the lower cost of increasing a bank loan ] ; and ( 3 ) the ongoing costs of that cash to both the corporation and ultimately the other shareholders - ie : a 3 % interest rate on debt vs a 6 % dividend rate on preferred shares vs a 5 % dividend rate on common shares [ which would also share in the net value of the company with the other current shareholders ] . In summary : Earnings would be generally preferred , but if the company needs cash immediately , that may not be suitable . Debt is generally cheap to acquire and interest rates are generally lower than required dividend rates . Equity is often expensive to acquire and maintain [ either through dividend payments or by reduction of net value attributable to other current shareholders ] , but may be required if a new venture is risky . ie : a bank/bondholder may not want to lend money for a new tech idea because it is too risky to just get interest from - they want access to the potential earnings as well , through equity .
I 'd suggest you run a credit check on the new tenant . If you reject based on this , they have little to argue as this is an objective number . It 's no guarantee , but a high credit score says a lot . Edit - I added a chart in response to your last comment . You can be as choosy as you wish , the request for credit check is to weed out the potential disasters more than to find a golden 800 score . I agree with Rob , a 650-700 cutoff would give you the top 1/2 - 1/3 of potential applicants .
The <URL> is where investors such you and me , as well as <URL> , buy and sell securities . The Auction Markets operate with the familiar bid-ask pricing that you see on financial pages such as Google and Yahoo . The Market Makers are institutions that are there to provide liquidity so that investors can easily buy and sell shares at a " fair " price . Market Makers need to have on hand a suitable supply of shares to meet investor demands . When Market Makers feel the need to either increase or decrease their supply of a particular security quickly , they turn to the Dealer Market . In order to participate in a <URL> , you must be designated a Market Maker . As noted already , Market Makers are dedicated to providing liquidity for the Auction Market in certain securities and therefore require that they have on hand a suitable supply of those securities which they support . For example , if a Market Maker for Apple shares is low on their supply of Apple shares , then will go the Dealer Market to purchase more Apple shares . Conversely , if they are holding what they feel are too many Apple shares , they will go to the Dealer Market to sell Apple shares . The Dealer Market does operate on a bid-ask basis , contrary to your stated understanding . The bid-ask prices quoted on the Dealer Market are more or less identical to those on the Auction Market , except the quote sizes will be generally much larger . This is the case because otherwise , why would a Market Maker offer to sell shares to another Market Maker at a price well below what they could themselves sell them for in the Auction Market . ( And similarly with buy orders . ) If Market Makers are generally holding low quantities of a particular security , this will drive up the price in both the Dealer Market and the Auction Market . Similarly , if Market Makers are generally holding too much of a particular security , this may drive down prices on both the Auction Market and the Dealer Market .
Yes , you should consider it . You should not necessarily do it though . You will need to investigate the management charges and performance on each scheme , as well as transfer penalties and whether your current scheme actually permits transfers in . Unfortunately the only way to do this is to dig through the small print for each scheme you are a member of ( and probably to look online for most recent charges and performance info ) . This is not a simple undertaking and many people opt not to bother . However , it is almost certainly the case that the older schemes are invested in funds with higher charges and/or poorer performance , so if you can bring yourself to put in the research it is probably worth it . The risk of course is that with all your eggs in one basket , if something goes horribly wrong you end up with insufficient pension . On the other hand , if your current scheme has more in it and you have relatively small amounts stagnating in the old schemes , then this is a low risk . Finally , you might want to consider taking out a personal or stakeholder pension instead and asking your employers if they would consider contributing to that rather than setting up yet another scheme , especially if you move jobs again .
I think these numbers are very location specific . Those house flipper tv shows loved to toss them out because they make great graphics , but they are nonetheless subjective . The only way I know how to guess the value of your home is to get comps . ( What similar homes in your local region sold for recently , withing a small radius such as a quarter or half mile . ) So to decide your ROI figure out your homes current resale value . Use one of dozens of home price estimators for this . Example 100K house , estimated value after adding a bath $ 120K , but the bathroom cost $ 10K to install . ( 120 / 100 ) - 1 = .2 or 20 % increase in the home value . Increase is $ 20K , but since the bathroom cost $ 10K your ROI is only $ 10k . ( is my math correct ? ) But that does n't tell you what new drapes , or updated carpeting will get you . Since you ca n't measure those numbers in any realistic way , you are stuck relying on the gut of a real estate agent , which is n't mathematical and therefore something I ca n't trust . For the little things , they are items that you would want to just make look and feel nice if you are selling the home . Things I have learned : Avoid Junky Lowes or Home Depot fixtures and parts . If you buy the cheap ones then your home looks like every cruddy apartment building in your city . Hire a pro for things that need to pass inspection Get your permits . Upgrades do n't count if they are n't documented Consider a big picture . I did one room at a time in my house and now the house reflects that . I should have planned the whole house stylewise , even if I only did one thing at a time . Never never never big the best or nicest house on the street . Do n't be the worst , do n't be the best .
No . There 's no inherent reason to link the place that you bank with any other financial service . There may occasionally be benefits ; for instance you can sometime get lower rates on mortgages or loans by having a a checking account with an institution . Or perhaps it 'll be easier for you to make a same-day payment on a credit account . There could be some negatives as well . If you fall behind on a loan account , the bank may take money from your savings/checking account to satisfy your debt . Choose a bank or CU that 's convenient to you . Choose a credit card from whatever bank or CU provides you with the best benefits . If that credit card is coming from a CU that requires a savings account for membership , open a minimum balance savings account and apply for the product you 're interested in . If your credit is as good as you claim , they 'll be happy to offer you the credit card regardless of whether you do your day-to-day banking with them .
Without more information about what tax bracket you are in , I can not make a recommendation about what your best option is , but here are a few things to consider : You can still contribute to the HSA until April 15th of next year if you have not contributed your allowable maximum ( for the current year that is the annual maximum / 12 * the number of months you were covered by a high-deductible plan ) . Contributions to the HSA are pre-tax and will reduce your tax liability , if you are in a higher tax bracket , the money saved in taxes may outweigh the maintenance fee . If the invested funds are returning better than inflation and the maintenance fees , it does not hurt you to leave the funds in place . Though you may not currently have a high deductible plan available , the health insurance market is moving in that direction and you may find yourself back in a high deductible plan before too long . ( I would wait at least until the next open enrollment to make my final decision . ) The deductible that qualifies is currently $ 1250 single or $ 2500 family If there are any qualified expenses , you can use those funds without incurring further tax and maintenance fees . ( For example if you could benefit from LASIK , that would be one way to empty the account .
Well , so long as the shares trade they are valued at greater than " worthless . " An important distinction . If truly worthless , you indicate a sell date of the day they were deemed worthless , and a sale price of zero . In your case , the broker should sell the shares for you . If the bid is zero and ask , say .1 cent , the broker should offer a courtesy purchase , i.e. they take the shares , so you can claim the loss . This loss is used to offset gains from other stocks you sold , if it 's greater than the gains , you take a $ 3000 loss again ordinary income and carry the rest forward , until you use it up against gains or $ 3000 each year .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
This may or may not be a complete list but given that the Chicago Board Options Exchange is the largest US options exchange , you might want to check its <URL> . They also have a downloadable CSV .
You 're talking about NQO - non-qualified stock options . Even assuming the whole scheme is going to work , the way NQO are taxed is that the difference between the fair market value and the strike price is considered income to you and is taxed as salary . You 'll save nothing , and will add a huge headache and additional costs of IPO and SEC regulations .
Binary options is a type of option where the payoff is either some fixed amount of some asset or nothing at all . When you trade binary options a trader who thinks that the EUR/USD strike price will close at or below 1.2500 at 3:00 p.m. can buy a put option or sell the contract .
Yes , almost certainly . Probably as easy as asking your broker.There are some complications in owning foreign stocks in a foreign currency . Currency conversion costs ( and risks ) are one , and there may be withholding tax on dividends or other costs/complications in getting money out . Since your country Colombia has <URL> with the U.S. , I believe your dividends will be subject to a 30 % withholding tax . It can be reduced to 15 % in the case of tax treaty countries ( after submitting a W8BEN form ) . Suggest you explore the tax implications with information from sources in your country .
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
According to the Canada Revenue Agency page on <URL> : Generally , you report your share of interest from a joint investment based on how much you contributed to it . <URL> expands on this a bit more : When investments are held in a joint account , the investment income ( including capital gains ) should be reported based on the funds contributed to the account by each spouse . If the funds were provided equally by both spouses , then the investment income would be split equally . and links back to the CRA page I cited above . I found a PDF on the website of <URL> ( p3 ) that provides another detailed description of this procedure : Very often , bank accounts , or even bonds and GICs , are held jointly by two or more taxpayers -- perhaps a husband and wife or an elderly parent and adult child -- and the question arises regarding how interest income from joint holdings should be reported and , especially , how to avoid double reporting of such income . The rule in such cases -- a rule that is more easily applied in theory than in practice -- is that the interest income is to be reported in the same proportions as the original contribution to the investment . So , in the simplest of cases , where a husband and wife each contributed exactly one-half of the balance in a bank account , each would be required to report and pay tax on 50 % of the interest paid or accrued during the year on that balance . Of course , the bank will not be tracking deposits to determine who contributed what ; it will simply issue a T5 slip for the full amount of interest earned . The practical solution is for each spouse to report his or her share of that interest income , perhaps with a note explaining the breakdown of such interest as between joint account holders . Even though that page refers to bank accounts , the CRA page leads me to believe that this rule applies to all investment income . Disclaimer : The standard warning applies . I 'm not a tax professional , and I 'm definitely not a tax professional familiar with Canadian tax law , so consult a tax professional before submitting your tax forms , if you 're concerned .
Yes and no . There are two primary ways to do this . The first is known as " cross listing " . Basically , this means that shares are listed in the home country are the primary shares , but are also traded on secondary markets using mechanisms like ADRs or Globally Registered Shares . Examples of this method include Vodafone and Research in Motion . The second is " dual listing " . This is when two corporations that function as a single business are listed in multiple places . Examples of this include Royal Dutch Shell and Unilever . Usually companies choose this method for tax purposes when they merge or acquire an international company . Generally speaking , you can safely buy shares in whichever market makes sense to you .
The stockholders of company A vote to approve or disapprove the buy out . That is the only control you have on the price : Vote to approve or disapprove . If the deal is approved then you get the money , or stock in B , or both , in accordance with the terms of the deal . It will arrive into your account automatically .
With a match , the 401 ( k ) becomes the priority , up to that match , often ahead of other high interest debt . Without the match , the analysis is more about the cost within the 401 ( k ) . The 401 ( k ) is a tax deferred account ( let 's not go on a tangent to Roth 401 ( k ) ) so ideally , you 'd be skimming off money at 25 % and saving it till you retire , so some of it is taxed at 0 , 10 , 15 % . If the fees in the 401 ( k ) are say 1.5 % between the underlying funds and management fee , it does n't take long to wipe out the potential 10 or 15 % you are trying to gain . Yes , there 's a risk that cap gain rates go away , but with today 's tax law , the long term rate is 15 % . So that money put into a long term low cost ETF will have reinvested dividends taxed at 15 % and upon sale , a 15 % rate on the gains . There are great index ETFs with sub - .1 % annual cost . My simple answer is - If the total cost in that 401 ( k ) is .5 % or higher , I 'd pass . Save the money in an outside account , using IRAs as best you can . ( The exact situation needs to be looked at very carefully . In personal finance , there 's a lot of ' grey ' . For example , a frequent job changer can view the 401 ( k ) as a way of saving pretax , knowing the fee will only last 2 years , and will end with a transfer to the IRA )
You 're talking about ESPP ? For ESPP it makes sense to utilize the most the company allows , i.e. : in your case - 15 % of the paycheck ( if you can afford deferring that much , I assume you can ) . When the stocks are purchased , I would sell them immediately , not hold . This way you have ~ 10 % premium as your income ( pretty much guaranteed , unless the stock falls significantly on the very same day ) , and almost no exposure . This sums up to be a nice 1.5 % yearly guaranteed bonus , on top of any other compensation . As to keeping the stocks , this depends on how much you believe in your company and expect the stocks to appreciate . Being employed and dependent on the company with your salary , I 'd avoid investing in your company , as you 're invested in it deeply as it is .
end question
start question
How do used vehicle exchange programs at car dealerships work ?
You are correct to be wary . Car dealerships make money selling cars , and use many tactics and advertisements to entice you to come into their showroom . " We are in desperate need of [ insert your make , model , year and color ] ! We have several people who want that exact car you have ! Come in and sell it to us and buy a new car at a great price ! We 'll give you so much money on your trade in ! " In reality , they play a shell game and have you focus on your monthly payment . By extending the loan to 4 or 5 years ( or longer ) , they can make your monthly payment lower , sure , but the total amount paid is much higher . You 're right : it 's not in your best interest . Buy a car and drive it into the ground . Being free of car payments is a luxury !
From a financial point of view , getting a 2-3 year old car with full service history ( and obviously in good condition and well looked after ) and driving it until it falls apart makes the most sense . That way , you avoid the steepest part of the depreciation curve ( ie , when you drive it off the lot ) and you should end up with something that 'll last you for a decade or longer if you keep up the maintenance . Either car - if bought new or used - will go wrong at some point , especially if they 're not looked after properly . Regular maintenance is one of the most important , if not the most important factor in keeping a vehicle reliable .
If you 're outside the US then etrade will direct you to the most appropriate portal for your location - e.g. , if I 'm in Australia , I have to sign up for an account through the Singapore portal . Whether taking out an account with etrade gets you access to US IPOs is another matter entirely . Foreigners can generally participate ( if and when your particular etrade portal is participating ) , but your residency is the least of your worries . The size and longevity of your account with a broker like etrade is much more important when they decide who gets in and who misses out .
You 've correctly understood the way charitable donations work . They are non-refundable tax credits , which means they reduce your income tax bill if you pay any , but ca n't reduce it below zero . <URL> . However the good news is that <URL> . This means that your best strategy is to hang on to those tax receipts , and assuming you start earning taxable income in the next five years , claim them then . EDIT : I would expect that making the donation through one of your parents would work . Essentially you would be giving the computers to your parents , and they would give them to the charity . You would have to make sure the receipts were issued in your parents name . You would also have to make sure that the amounts involved were small enough that your parents did n't pay tax on the gift to them , but in the amounts you seem to be talking about that should n't be a problem .
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
There is a large market where notes/bills/bonds are traded , so yes you can sell them later . However , if interest rates go up , the value of any bond that you want to sell goes down , because you now have to compete with what someone can get on a new issue , so you need to ' discount ' the principal value of your bond in order for someone to want to buy it instead of a new bond that has a higher interest rate . The reverse applies if interest rates fall ( although it 's hard to get much lower than they are now ) . So someone wanting to make money in bonds due to interest rate changes , generally wants to buy at higher interest rates , and then sell their bonds after rates have gone down . See my answer in this question for more detail <URL> To answer ' is that good ' the answer depends on perspective : For someone wanting to buy a bond and get a return on their investment beyond the security that comes with T-notes/bills/bonds , it 's not good at all . It means very low returns right now for risk adverse investors , in some cases not even keeping pace with inflation . For the Government , and taxpayers , it 's good because the government can finance the national debt ( either items coming due , or new debt ) for almost free , and that means we are not taking an even larger hit out of the budget for finance charges on the debt . So for taxpayers and the Government that 's been on a spending spree ( with the brief exception of a few years during the clinton era ) since Reagan was elected , the low rates are a good thing . If we step beyond Treasury issues , it 's also good for Business that wants to finance new projects , capital improvements , etc , since it also means they can get money fairly cheaply via the corporate bond market .
I found the answer . I had a small misconception about capital gains taxes . It so happens that your ordinary income tax bracket is calculated by adding your capital gains to your ordinary income . So in the example I gave in the question , those hundreds of thousands of dollars of capital gains income would put you in a high tax bracket , so you would have to pay capital gains taxes based off that tax bracket ( probably 20 % for long term and 39 % for short term in the worst case scenario ) .
Hedge funds work by investing on variety of instruments including options and derivatives . i.e. they even short sell the stocks if they believe that the market is going down . They may also buy stocks that may not be fundamentally sound , just to make few bucks out of it . Mutual funds on the other hand stick to purely picking up good stocks that are supposed to give good returns over a period of time . They churn of portfolio is less compared to the Hedge fund . More details at <URL> <URL>
The way this works , as I understand it , is that financial advisers come in two kinds . Some are free to recommend you any financial products they think fit , but many are restricted in what they can recommend . Most advisers who work for finance companies are the second kind , and will only offer you products that their company sells . I believe they should tell you up front if they are the second kind . They should certainly tell you that if you ask . So in essence , your Scotiabank advisor is not necessarily making bad decisions for you - but they are restricted in what they will offer , and will not tell you if there is a better product for you that Scotiabank does n't sell . In most cases , ' management fees ' means something you pay to the actual managers of the fund you buy , not to the person who sells you the fund . You can compare the funds you are invested in yourself , both for performance and for the fees charged . Making frequent unnecessary changes of investment is another way that an advisor can milk you for money , but that is not necessarily restricted to bank-employed advisors . if you think that is happening to you , ask question , and change advisors if you are not happy .
I 've been there -- had rental damage and the credit card secondary insurance , etc. . Here 's what happens : Your own personal auto insurance ( primary insurance ) will pay for the damage , minus your deductible . The credit card insurance is secondary , and it should pay the remaining balance -- in other words , just your deductible will be paid by the credit card company . It does n't really matter who you call first -- let the rental company know , sure . After they tell you the damage amout , you can open a claim with both your personal insurance and your credit card company , and they will give you all the instructions you need . Your personal insurance wo n't care much about the credit card insurance , and your credit card insurance will just want documentation of your deductible . One last tidbit : the rental company also tacked on an " administrative fee " of $ 20 or so . Both insurance companies said they do n't pay admin fees and are usually successful in negotiating that away . And they did , it went away , and I did n't pay the $ 20 .
Major brokerages may offer an account type for international trading . In the US , E * Trade offers a " Global Trading " account that can be used to hold foreign stocks . You may need to shop around to find a similar offering in Portugal .
There are several factors here . Firstly , there 's opportunity cost , i.e. what you would get with the money elsewhere . If you have higher interest opportunities ( investing , paying down debt ) elsewhere , you could be paying that down instead . There 's also domino effects : by reducing your liquid savings to or below the minimum , you ca n't move any of it into tax advantaged retirement accounts earning higher interest . Then there 's the insurance costs . You are required to buy extra insurance to protect your lender . You should factor in the extra insurance you would buy vs the insurance required . Given that you can buy the car yourself , catastrophic insurance may not be necessary , or you may prefer a higher deductible than your lender will allow . If you 're not sufficiently capitalized , you may need gap insurance to cover when your car depreciates faster than your loan is paid down . A 30 percent payment should be enough to not need it though . Finally , there 's some value in having options . If you have the loan and the cash , you can likely pay it off without penalty . But it will be harder to get the loan if you do n't finance it . Maybe you can take out a loan against the car later , but I have n't looked into the fees that might incur . If it 's any help , I 'm in the last stretch of a 3 year car loan . At the time paying in cash was n't an option , and having done it I recognize that it 's more complicated than it seems .
A simplistic answer would be that it 's a multiplier on how much money per paycheck to subtract from your tax withholding ( taxes per paycheck ) , then at the end of the year you will have paid taxes on your income minus the amount of your withholding allowances . If you get a decent ( roughly 3 % or more of your gross annual salary ) refund you are letting the government withhold too much ( and should increase your allowances ) , if you have to pay a decent amount of taxes at the end of the year then the amount withheld is not high enough ( and should decrease your allowances ) . I definitely recommend using the <URL> that Stephen Cleary mentions , but I think it 's just as easy to adjust it up or down by 1 or 2 each year based on whether you got a large refund , no refund , or paid taxes . If you are disciplined with your money many experts advise to increase withholding allowances , save the extra in a safe short term interest account so that you earn money on your money and not the government .
There are several ways that the issuers profit from CFDs . If the broker has trades on both sides ( buy and sell ) they can net the volumes off against each other and profit off the spread whilst using the posted margins to cover p &amp; l from both sides . Because settlement for most securities is not on the same day that the order is placed they can also buy the security with no intention of taking delivery and simply sell it off at the end of day to pass delivery on to someone else . Here again they profit from the spread and that their volumes give them really low commissions so their costs are much lower than the value of the spread . If they have to do this rather than netting the position out the spreads will be wider . Sometimes that may be forced to buy the security outright but that is rare and the spreads will be even wider so that they can make a decent profit .
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
A title such as " 5 % Treasury Gilt 2020 " expresses the nominal yield . In other words , 5 % is the yield you will receive if you are able to buy the Gilt at the nominal ( issue ) price of GBP100 . Of course , you will not be able to buy such a Gilt in today 's market for the nominal price of GBP100 . It will be trading at a considerable premium and therefore , if you hold it until maturity you will realise a capital loss to offset the relatively high income you have received . Here is an example . The " 8 % June 2021 Gilt " has a coupon of 8 % . To purchase a GBP100 nominal Gilt in today 's market will cost you GBP135 .89 . Thus , you will pay 135.89 to receive GBP8 .00 income annually . This represents a 5.88 % yield ( 8/135 .89 = 5.88 % ) . That sounds pretty good . However , if you hold the Gilt until maturity you will only receive GBP100 on redemption and therefore you will experience a capital loss GBP35 .89 on each Gilt purchased . When this capital loss is taken into account it means that the 5.88 % yield you are receiving as income will be offset by the capital loss so that you have earned the equivalent of 0.757 % annually . You can of course sell the Gilt before its 2021 maturity date , however as the maturity date gets closer the market price will get closer to the GBP100 nominal value and you will again face a capital loss . There 's no free ride in the markets . 5 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 0.75 % , while 10 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 1.15 % . You may also wish to note that buying Gilts in the open market requires a minimum purchase of GBP10 ,000 nominal value . However , you can purchase small Gilt holdings through the post office .
Summary When you invest in an S&amp;P 500 index fund that is priced in USD , the only major risk you bear is the risk associated with the equity that comprises the index , since both the equities and the index fund are priced in USD . The fund in your question , however , is priced in EUR . For a fund like this to match the performance of the S&amp;P 500 , which is priced in USD , as closely as possible , it needs to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . If the fund simply converted EUR to USD then invested in an S&amp;P 500 index fund priced in USD , the EUR-priced fund may fail to match the USD-priced fund because of exchange rate fluctuations . Why hedging is important Here is a simple example demonstrating why hedging is necessary . I assumed the current value of the USD-priced S&amp;P 500 index fund is 1,600 USD/share . The exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR . If you purchase one share of this index using EUR , you would pay 1230.77 EUR/share : If the S&amp;P 500 increases 10 % to 1760 USD/share and the exchange rate remains unchanged , the value of the your investment in the EUR fund also increases by 10 % ( both sides of the equation are multiplied by 1.1 ) : However , the currency risk comes into play when the EUR/USD exchange rate changes . Take the 10 % increase in the price of the USD index occurring in tandem with an appreciation of the EUR to 1.4 USD/EUR : Although the USD-priced index gained 10 % , the appreciation of the EUR means that the EUR value of your investment is almost unchanged from the first equation . For investments priced in EUR that invest in securities priced in USD , the presence of this additional currency risk mandates the use of a hedge if the indexes are going to track . The fund you linked to uses <URL> , which I discuss in detail below , to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . Since these derivatives are n't free , the cost of the hedge is included in the expenses of the fund and may result in differences between the S&amp;P 500 Index and the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index . Also , it 's important to realize that any time you invest in securities that are priced in a different currency than your own , you take on currency risk whether or not the investments aim to track indexes . This holds true even for securities that trade on an exchange in your local currency , like ADR 's or GDR 's . I wrote an <URL> that goes through a simple example in a similar fashion to the one above in that context , so you can read that for more information on currency risk in that context . Process of hedging There are several ways to investors , be they institutional or individual , can hedge against currency risk . <URL> offers an ETF that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index and uses a over-the-counter currency swap contract called a <URL> to hedge against the associated currency risk . In these contracts , two parties agree to swap some amount of one currency for another amount of another currency , at some time in the future . This allows both parties to effectively lock in an exchange rate for a given time period ( a month in the case of the iShares ETF ) and therefore protect themselves against exchange rate fluctuations in that period . There are other forms of <URL> , <URL> , etc. that could be used to hedge against currency risk . In general , two parties agree to swap one quantity , like a EUR cash flow , payments of a fixed interest rate , etc. for another quantity , like a USD cash flow , payments based on a floating interest rate , etc. . In many cases these are over-the-counter transactions , there is n't necessarily a standardized definition . For example , if the European manager of a fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index is holding euros and wants to lock in an effective exchange rate of 1.4 USD/EUR ( above the current exchange rate ) , he may find another party that is holding USD and wants to lock in the respective exchange rate of 0.71 EUR/USD . The other party could be an American fund manager that manages a USD-price fund that tracks the FTSE . By swapping USD and EUR , both parties can , at a price , lock in their desired exchange rates . Final note I want to clear up something else in your question too . It 's not correct that the " S&amp;P 500 is completely unrelated to the Euro . " Far from it . There are many cases in which the EUR/USD exchange rate and the level of the S&amp;P 500 index could be related . For example : Troublesome economic news in Europe could cause the euro to depreciate against the dollar as European investors flee to safety , e.g. invest in Treasury bills . However , this economic news could also cause US investors to feel that the global economy wo n't recover as soon as hoped , which could affect the S&amp;P 500 . If the euro appreciated against the dollar , for whatever reason , this could increase profits for US businesses that earn part of their profits in Europe . If a US company earns 1 million EUR and the exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR , the company earns 1.3 million
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
There 's no rule of thumb -- people get ripped all of the time on trade-ins or when they sell cars to the dealer . I think with used car negotiations , demand for the car is more important than their cost . If you 're talking a 2007 Kia , there will be lots of room . If it 's a 2009 Honda , they wo n't even discuss price . In terms of negotiations , you 'll only get the best price if you 're willing to walk away at most dealers . I usually pick 2-3 candidate cars at different lots and show up on the last day of the month . If it 's busy , look at the wall and find the # 1 salesman and be a pain in the butt . Refuse to listen to the 4-square speil and walk away slowly if he does n't negotiate . When I was in high school , my dad almost ran over a car salesman who literally jumped out in front of the car as we were leaving . My dad got his price and signed the contract right in the car .
end question
start question
Is there a deadline to respond to an IRS request for additional documentation ?
It depends on the notice . It should usually be explicitly mentioned on the notice . Since in your case they 're rejecting the amended return , you are not limited by the usual 30/60/90 days , but by the dead-line to amend the return . Worst case you can just resubmit the amended return and attach the missing documentation to the submission . But better to respond to the letter and resolve the issue now than to restart the whole process later . The CPA should already have all the documentation from preparing the return .
Here is a link to the IRS Page on the adoption credit <URL> " To claim the credit or exclusion , complete Form 8839 ( PDF ) , Qualified Adoption Expenses , and attach the form to your Form 1040 ( PDF ) or Form 1040A ( PDF ) . You must attach one or more adoption related documents ( identified in the form instructions ) with the completed Form 8839 , and attach the Form 8839 to your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . The required documents vary depending on whether the adoption is foreign or domestic , whether it becomes final in the tax year , and whether it is for a special-needs child . " here are the instructions <URL> " Documentation requirements . You must provide at least one of the documents described below to support your claim for each eligible child on line 1 . Attach the documents to Form 8839 and file with your income tax return . Copies are acceptable unless otherwise specified . You may redact sensitive personal information from an adoption order or decree or from a special needs determination ; however , the IRS may require you to provide an unredacted copy at a later date . " to determine if an original form is needed , you have to select from one of 5 types of adoptions .
While I ca n't say this is the normal process for this to happen , it does n't seem too far fetched to be true . I would assume that the double application fee is in part to guarantee nothing slips past them in the process . The fact that you state they have a particularly low rent as compared to other places in the area may be due to having higher entry standards , in which they do a bit more in terms of vetting potential renters , in order to guarantee themselves accurate payment without too much in the way of problems . If you really like the complex , I would say bite the bullet and pay the application fee , or at least ask them why both of you would need to pay such a fee , they should be more than happy to explain it to you .
There are ways to mitigate , but since you 're not protected by a tax-deferred/advantaged account , the realized income will be taxed . But you can do any of the followings to reduce the burden : Prefer selling either short positions that are at loss or long positions that are at gain . Do not invest in stocks , but rather in index funds that do the rebalancing for you without ( significant ) tax impact on you . If you are rebalancing portfolio that includes assets that are not stocks ( real-estate , mainly ) consider performing <URL> instead of plain sale and re-purchase . Maximize your IRA contributions , even if non-deductible , and <URL> . Hold your more volatile investments and individual stocks there - you will not be taxed when rebalancing . Maximize your 401K , HSA , SEP-IRA and any other tax-advantaged account you may be eligible for . On some accounts you 'll pay taxes when withdrawing , on others - you wo n't . For example - Roth IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all when withdrawing qualified distributions , while traditional IRA/401k are taxed as ordinary income . During the " low income " years , consider converting portions of traditional accounts to Roth .
Before filing your first business tax return , you will need to choose a taxation method , either corporation or partnership . If you choose a partnership , then it 's moot - your business income flows through to your personal taxes via form K-1 . Also , regardless of your taxation method , you should consult a legal expert , since having your business pay off your personal debt would almost always be counted as income to you , and may cause you to lose the personal liability protections provided by the LLC ( aka " piercing the corporate veil " ) . Having a single-member LLC with no employees , you have to be very careful how you manage the finances of the business . Any commingling of personal and business could jeopardize your protections .
What does it mean that the bank will " hold you responsible " ? Clearly the money wo n't be credited . Will you be charged a fee like an NSF cheque ? Will they try to prosecute you ? They will pull the money out of your account . Do n't spend it even if it appears to clear . It could take days/weeks for the whole cycle to be completed . Yes you could be charged a fee . It is up to your bank/credit union Will they try to prosecute you ? There was fraud committed , one or more banks were involved . There will be an investigation . The question was how involved were you in the fraud . So yes you could be prosecuted . Is there any way to confirm whether a cashiers cheque is forged ? Could you for example tell your bank that you were uncertain of the origin , and ask them to confirm it ? Can you call the issuer and verify ( from the serial number ) that they did in fact issue a cheque for that amount with you as the payee ? Even calling the bank might not help . The first verification is that the bank exists , and that the account number and name match and that they did issue a check . But that does n't cover the situation where the person that sent you the check was n't who they claimed to be . That is the theft that could take weeks to find .
There are two levels to consider here : Small amounts ( To me , this means $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything is fine . If they do n't , it 's not going to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amounts - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them as a gift . I usually give them the money saying something like " If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too " . If you are n't prepared to say that , loaning them money is probably not a good plan . That said , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it is good for them . If they have problems managing their money , or holding down a job , and you give them money , they are just going to come back for more later . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member has hit a rough patch and you know they are the kind of person that will be on their feet again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .
Only real downside is that pulling your score may slightly reduced your score . So you might just want to ask them for an estimate , assuming an excellent score ; that 'll be close enough for now . The time to get pre-approved is when your actually ready to start shopping for a house .
For your girlfriend ( congrats to you both on the coming new baby ! ) , full-time mothers often become work-at-home moms using skills that they may have utilized in the outside-the-home workforce before they made the decision to stay home . <URL> can be a place where some do this , but there are many articles out there pointing out that it also does n't work for many people . I tried to earn some side money there and did n't make a dime . For those with a niche product , though , it can really work . A book on working at home as a mother ( from a Christian perspective with specifically religious overtones , so not the right book for someone who would not appreciate that aspect ) is <URL> . There are secular resources , such as the website <URL> . From everything I 've ever heard in researching the topic of becoming a WAHM ( work at home mother ) , it 's a challenging but rewarding lifestyle . Note that according to one WAHM I know , only contract work is reliable enough to be depended on for family obligations ( this is true of any part time work ) . Freelancing will have so many ups and downs that you ca n't bank on it to , say , pay the mortgage unless you really get going . Ramit Sethi of I Will Teach You To Be Rich focuses a lot on <URL> with ideas that might benefit both of you . His angle is that of working on top of an existing job , so it may specifically help you think of how to take your programming skills ( or a hobby you have besides programming ) and translate them into a career .
The answer is ... it depends ... :) It depends on how the university reports covering your tuition expenses . The end result is that any amount the university pays for you to attend school that goes directly to Qualified Education Expenses as listed in the attached form should not be taxed . So ... it the entire " fellowship " income is reported to you as a w-2 or 1099 then you can claim the qualified expenses on the 8917 . You ca n't claim any expenses that were paid by the university that were not reported as income on either a w2 or 1099 . Note : I believe from another question that you mentioned that you were not from the US . In that case the handling is different if you classify yourself as a non-resident alien . Note 2 : I am a little confused by one fact of your question . You are n't currently in school ? Just to be sure , know that you for taxes that are being filed now ( for tax year 2011 ) only expenses paid in 2011 can be claimed .
It depends on the notice . It should usually be explicitly mentioned on the notice . Since in your case they 're rejecting the amended return , you are not limited by the usual 30/60/90 days , but by the dead-line to amend the return . Worst case you can just resubmit the amended return and attach the missing documentation to the submission . But better to respond to the letter and resolve the issue now than to restart the whole process later . The CPA should already have all the documentation from preparing the return .
They should send you the new card about 30-60 days before the expiration . I 've never heard of a case where you actually need to ask for it to happen , it should be done automatically . The card expiration is a security feature , it 's not the end of the contract between you and the credit card company where they " need to think about it " whether to send you a new one . Check if the original card was lost ( or worse - stolen ) while en route .
There 's no limit , from the legal perspective ( with regards to the US law , that is ) , to how much you can keep on your bank accounts anywhere in the world . FBAR requirements are reporting requirements , they do n't limit how much you can keep in the accounts , they only make you report the accounts to the government . There 's no such requirement with regards to the US domestic accounts . That is for the US government , your own government ( of the country of which you 're a citizen of ) may have limitations on what accounts you may have outside of that country , or have reporting requirements of their own . That said , keep in mind that FDIC only insures up to $ 250K per person ( i.e. : on all your accounts ) in each institution . So if you have more than $ 250K in a FDIC insured account - you better spread it across different banks .
Fake stock market trading may teach you about trading , which is n't necessarily the same thing as investing . I think you need to understand how things work and how to read financial news and statistics before you start trading . Otherwise , you 're just going to get frustrated when you mysteriously win and lose funny money . I 'd suggest a few things : Start an investment club . I did this in college with a few friends , had a good time and we learned alot . Watch financial media . The Nightly Business Report on PBS used to be really good , although I have n't watched it since the long-running host retired . He 's a bit of a clown , but watch Cramer on CNBC -- listen to the guests and track stocks and sectors that he talks about often . Follow a few stocks in diverse sectors . Do research , listen to earnings calls . Read financial media . Pick up the Wall Street Journal and the Economist when time allows . Read the book reviews and read recommended titles that interest you . Do n't get distracted by exotic stuff . Also , do n't get into individual stocks until you have at least $ 5k to invest -- focus on saving and use ETFs or mutual funds . You should always invest in around a half dozen diversified stocks at a time , and doing that with less than $ 1,000 a stock will make it impossible to trade and make money -- If a $ 100 stock position goes up 20 % , you have n't cleared enough to pay your brokerage fees .
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
I do n't know of any free API 's for these data , but I 'll provide what information I can . Compiling all of this information from the <URL> system and exposing an interface to it requires a fair amount of work and maintenance , so it 's usually market data companies that have the motivation and resources to provide such interfaces . I know of a few options that may or may not be close to what you 're looking for . The SEC provides <URL> to the EDGAR system . You could download and parse the text files they provide . Yahoo Finance provides summary files of financial statements ( e.g. , <URL> ) as well as links to the full statements in the EDGAR system . Once again , parsing may be your only option for these data . Xignite , a proprietary market data provider , provides a <URL> . If you need these data for a commercial application , you could contact them and work something out . ( Frankly , if you need these data for a commercial application , <URL> ) The <URL> provides data from financial statements . I believe it 's also exposed through several of their API 's . As with most financial data , CRSP is sort of a gold standard , although I have n't personally used their API to fetch data from financial statements , so I ca n't speak for it specifically . <URL> mentions the quantmod R package and <URL> . I ca n't vouch for either of those options personally . Unfortunately , you 'll probably have to do some parsing unless you can find a paid data provider that 's already compiled this information in a machine-readable format .
Stop watching . When I first got a job where I could log in to a website and view accounts , I did so pretty heavily for a few months . Typically there is n't any harm , but there are downsides ; you might be more tempted to trade or act on a rumor . You simply have more opportunity to act on a whim if you are logged in to your account . So stop watching . I have will power issues , so I ca n't have too much junk food in the house , and I learned to quit logging into my brokerage account . ( I still stare at quicken every couple nights . ) Just setup up systems to automatically deposit money and make purchases . Once a year on your birthday , log in and do whatever maintenance you need to do like overbalancing and such . If you really are a buy and hold type investor ( I am , for all the reasons you cited ) then be a buy and hold and stop watching one .
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
If the document must be postmarked by a specific date or there are dire consequences then use a method of mailing that gives you that dated postmark receipt . <URL> Your return is considered filed timely if the envelope is properly addressed and postmarked no later than April 15 <URL> : Taxpayers or Tax Professionals can use certain private delivery services designated by the IRS to meet the " timely mailing as timely filing/paying " rule for tax returns and payments . These private delivery services include only the following : DHL Express ( DHL ) : DHL Same Day Service . Federal Express ( FedEx ) : FedEx Priority Overnight , FedEx Standard Overnight , FedEx 2Day , FedEx International Priority , and FedEx International First . United Parcel Service ( UPS ) : UPS Next Day Air , UPS Next Day Air Saver , UPS 2nd Day Air , UPS 2nd Day Air A.M. , UPS Worldwide Express Plus , and UPS Worldwide Express . The private delivery service can tell you how to get written proof of the mailing date . What would be dire consequences ? Having to report a 83-b election within thirty days of the transaction . Failure to do so would impact your tax situation for years . Owing a large sum of money and wanting to wait until the last day to send it in . If there are no dire consequences for hitting a specific date then regular mail is fine . In some cases electronic submission is even better because of the electronic receipt . If you are concerned about the check falling into the wrong hands you could also pay by credit card or debit card . But that also has risks and costs .
If you do n't know the refund amount - how exactly do you expect anything to be filed ? The CPA can not file anything on your behalf without you signing <URL> - which has the refund amount printed on it . You should have signed this form and received a copy of the tax return , otherwise - the CPA can not file anything . In case your CPA is a crook and filed your tax return without your authorization - you 'll see it on your IRS transcript . I wrote a <URL> . However , CPA doing so may very easily lose the license , so I doubt that it happened in your case . More likely than not your CPA just did n't do it on time . If it results in any penalties for you - you can demand the CPA to cover it ( but not the actual tax - that is yours ) . If you 're due refund there will be no penalties .
end question
start question
Do I have to wash money through HSA account ?
Yes , you will need to deposit the funds into your HSA , then withdraw them to reimburse yourself for the expenses . The tax deduction comes when you contribute ( deposit ) to your HSA . If you do not deposit the money there , you will not be able to claim the deduction . Your HSA provider reports the amount of your contributions to the IRS , so the amount you say you contribute to your HSA on your tax return has to match what your HSA provider reports . When you deposit the money to your HSA , you need to explicitly tell your provider that the contribution is for tax year 2014 . The reason is that you want to make sure that they report the amount of your 2014 contributions to the IRS correctly . After you 've deposited the amount into your HSA , you can withdraw it to reimburse yourself for an eligible medical expense . In order to be eligible , it needs to be an expense that was incurred while you had the HSA in place . If you had your HSA account in place before you paid the expense , no problem . But if you set up the HSA account after you paid for the expense , you might be out of luck . The distribution ( withdrawal ) will be a part of tax year 2015 , and you 'll see this amount included as part of the gross distributions on your 1099-SA form next year . When I first set up my HSA , I did n't have any extra money to fund the HSA , so I handled it just like you are talking about . I would wait until I had a medical bill , then deposit the amount I needed into my HSA and withdraw it back out to pay the bill .
A 401k plan will ask you to name a beneficiary who will receive the funds if you do n't withdraw them all before death . Usually , a primary beneficiary and a secondary beneficiary is requested . If you do n't specify a beneficiary , your estate is the beneficiary by default . Note that the name supplied to the 401k plan is who will get the money , and you can not change this by bequeathing the money in your will . For example , if you neglected to change the beneficiary upon divorce , it is useless to say in your will that the money in the 401k plan goes to your new wife ; the 401k plan will give it to your ex-wife who still remains the beneficiary of your 401k Money in a 401k plan is what is called income with respect to a decedent ( IRD ) on which income tax is levied , and it is also is part of your estate and thus liable to be subject to estate tax . The latter is true even if the 401k plan assets are not mentioned anywhere in your will , and even if the assets got sent to your ex-wife which is not what you wanted to have happen . There are various estate tax exceptions for spouse beneficiaries ( no estate tax due now , but will be charged when the spouse passes away ) . With regard to income tax , the beneficiaries of a 401k plan ( similarly IRAs , 403b plans etc ) generally get to take the whole amount and pay the income tax themselves . Edit in response to littleadv 's comments : Each 401k plan is different , and some plans , especially the smaller ones , may prefer to distribute the 401k assets as a lump sum rather than allow the beneficiaries to withdraw the money over several years ( and pay income tax on the amount withdrawn each year ) . This is because there are far too many rules and regulations to trip over when making withdrawals over several years . The lump sum distribution can be transferred into a newly established Inherited IRA ( see the Nolo article linked to in @littleadv 's answer for some details and some pitfalls to avoid ) and the income tax is thus deferred until withdrawals occur . Spouse beneficiaries are entitled to more generous rules than non-spouse beneficiaries . If your heirs are otherwise well provided for and you are in a philanthropic mood ( or you do n't want to give 'em a dime , the ungrateful ... who never call , not even on Father 's Day ! ) , one way of avoiding a lot of tax is to make the beneficiary of your 401k be one or more of your favorite charities . In fact , if your testamentary inclination is to make some charitable bequests as part of your will , it is much more advantageous to give money from a tax-deferred account to the charity ( size of estate is reduced , no income tax paid by anyone on amount given ) , and bequeath assets in non-retirement accounts to one 's heirs ( bequests are not taxable income , and heirs get a step up in basis for assets that have appreciated ) rather than the other way around ( heirs pay income tax as they withdraw the money from tax-deferred account ) Estate planning is a complicated business , and you really should talk to a professional about such matters and not rely on advice from an Internet forum .
It depends on your bank 's terms ( which may in turn be influenced by laws and regulations ) , but most banks calculate interest on a per-day basis , so if you leave the money in the account for more than a day , it will generate interest . However , it will most likely be so little that you could make more money doing any kind of paid work in the time it took you to write this question ...
You can designate one or more beneficiaries for your HSA account who will get the money when you die . Some states require consent from your spouse ( if you 're married ) if they are not the beneficiary . The funds maybe taxable to the beneficiary . If you do n't designate any beneficiaries , by default the money will go into your estate and be handled the same as other assets . The funds may be taxable by the estate . If you had any medical expenses before you died , it might be possible to pay them from the HSA . When looking around for information about this I would start with the IRS publications which are the authoritative source of this information . Other articles you read are usually just summarizations of this information and can sometimes be incomplete or incorrect . <URL>
In most of North America , water rates are cheap enough that it will save in actual dollars to do this at home ; but there are other considerations . You might also factor in your own enjoyment ; if you like washing the car , more power to you , if you do not , then your time might be better spent doing something else . The environmental factors are harder . The car-wash probably uses more electricity , and the amount of water is difficult to judge , as it depends on how you wash the car yourself . One major difference , from an environmental perspective would be that all your soap and other grime and oils , in the city , are all washing down a storm drain and going untreated into your local waterway . The car-wash likely is connected to a sanitary sewer , so the water would be treated before being released . I tend to take the most cost and environmentally effective approach ; and wait for rain . :-)
I do n't think there is any other solution that the one you are adopting . More info at <URL> <URL>
As an individual freelancer , you would need to maintain a book of accounts . This should show all the income you are getting , and should also list all the payments incurred . This can not only include the payments to other professionals , but also any hardware purchased , phone bills , any travel and entertainment bills directly related to the service you are offering . Once you arrive at a net profit figure , you would need to file this as your income . Consult a tax professional and he can help with how to keep the records of income and expenses . i.e. . You would need to create invoices for payments , use checks or online transfers for most payments , segregate the accounts , one account used for this professional stuff , and another for your personal stuff , etc. . In a normal course the Income Tax Department does not ask for these records , however whenever your tax returns get scrutinized on a random basis , they would ask for all the relevant documentations .
401 ( k ) withdrawals - early or otherwise - are not subject to FICA or Medicare taxes . That 's because <URL> when they were contributed . ( And of course , the earnings from the 401 ( k ) contributions are not earned income and thus are not subject to payroll taxes for that reason . ) While 401 ( k ) contributions are exempt from federal ( and generally state ) income taxes , they are n't exempt from payroll taxes - and as such , you 'll see two separate amounts on your W2 and paystub if you contributed : the amount that is subject to those taxes , and the amount that is subject to income tax . So , no , you do n't have to pay payroll ( FICA , Social Security ) taxes on your early withdrawal . As for the penalty , that is basically an extra tax - so if you withdraw $ 1000 , you pay income tax at your marginal rate plus 10 % penalty ; if your marginal rate is 25 % [ and you 're not moving across a rate step boundary ] , you will pay .
Here is a <URL> A google of HSA administrators turns up quite a list . These accounts are separate from IRAs , and an IRA ca n't substitute . The HSA is required to have the HDHP and the insurer running it should be offering you the linked HSA partners as they are closely tied .
Like Bluetie Grasper have said . Can I create a PayPal account and receive $ 200 ( or a similar amount ) without adding a bank account , credit card , or anything but my email address ? The answer is No . You can transfer the money to your PayPal account but until you verify it with your personal information with at least a credit card or mostly likely a bank account , PayPal will hold those funds until otherwise . Can I then use that money to buy on Amazon , still without adding anything but my email address ? If not , can I buy gift cards and use those on Amazon ? Amazon does not accept PayPal .
Straight from the <URL> ; Applying for a Social Security card and number for your newborn is voluntary . But , your child needs a Social Security number if you plan to -
There 's a bit of confusion here . Michael 's article you linked is focused on the issue of post-tax 401 ( k ) deposits . For those new to this , it sounds like we are talking about Roth 401 ( k ) money . Not so . The Roth IRA was introduced in 1998 , and the Roth 401 ( k ) in 2006 . Before ' 06 , people had the ability to deposit more to their 401 ( k ) than the pretax limit of $ 15,000 into the account as " after tax " deposits . My understanding is that these funds were analogous to the non-deducted IRA deposits for those outside the income limits . Michael goes on the point out that now , with the addition of Roth 401 ( k ) and Roth IRAs , there are folk with pre and post Tax 401 ( k ) funds and trying to crack them for transfer to Traditional IRA and Roth IRA may be problematic . Aside from a <URL> , there are separate accounts for the Roth 401 ( k ) and Traditional 401 ( k ) , and it 's possible for the traditional to contain post tax money , which , given the recent <URL> , should be easily addressable .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
Banks do n't generally " Post " transactions on Friday-Sunday , meaning any transfers made on those days do n't show up until someone processes it on Monday . I would expect the money to show today , and call your bank tomorrow if it does n't .
These are the basics in order : Max your employer contributions to your 401k if available Pay off any loans Contribute to an IRA Perhaps max out your 401k Look into other investment options ( refinance your mortgage , buy stocks ) Those are the typical rules , special situations may need specials actions ...
Of course you do n't have to pay them - you just might not like the result . As a matter of law - given that I am not a lawyer - I am not aware of any requirement for a company to pay employees business-related expenses . An example might be having a cell phone , and <URL> even if they require you have one and use it as part of your employment . The primary areas where law does exist relates to company uniforms with a logo ( in a very limited number of US states ) and necessary personal safety equipment ( in California and maybe only few other states ) . All other tool requirements for a job are not prohibited by law , so long as they are not illegally discriminatory ( such as requiring people of a certain race or sex to buy something but no one else , etc ) . So a company can require all sorts of things , from having an internet connection to cell phone to laptop to specialty tools and equipment of all sorts , and they are even allowed to deduct the cost of some things from your pay - just so long as you still get paid minimum wage after the deductions . With all that said , the company 's previous payments of fees and willingness to pay a monthly internet fee does not obligate them to pay other fees too , such as moving/installation/etc . They may even decide to no longer provide internet service at their expense and just require you to provide it as a condition of employment . You can insist on it with your employer , and if you do n't have an employment contract that forbids it they can fire you or possibly even deduct it from your pay anyway ( and this reason might not be one that allows you to collect unemployment insurance benefits - but you 'd need to check with an expert on that ) . You can refuse to pay AT&amp;T directly , and they can cancel the internet service - and your employer can then do the same as in the previous condition . Or you can choose to pay it - or ask your employer to split the cost over a few checks if it is rather high - and that 's about it . Like the cost of anything else you have to pay - from your own food to your computer , clothes , etc - it 's best to just consider it your own " cost of doing business " and decide if it 's still in your interest to keep working there , and for something to consider in future pay negotiations ! You may also qualify for an itemized <URL> deduction from the IRS , but you 'll need to read the requirements carefully and get/keep a receipt for such expenses .
While the US hosts most of the world 's innovative startups , its own financial and banking systems are very slow to change . The infrastructure exists , however the ACH transfers are not wide-spread between individuals . Banks much prefer the option of bill-pay ( i.e. : as you said , mailing a check , something in other countries people would n't even think of ) , than letting you do it yourself . Why ? Because they can . There 's no real competition over consumers , and the consumers themselves are not educated or sophisticated . Thus , the banks are comfortable with the lack of innovation - since as long as they are all lacking innovation - consumers wo n't demand it because they wo n't even know things are possible . And it is definitely cheaper for the banks not to innovate and keep your money for a week while the bill-pay check is en route , than try and develop new things . In other countries , the regulator would step up and force banks to develop new infrastructure and widen the options , but in the US regulation is considered a bad thing , and people are easily swayed , being uneducated and uninformed , by the corporations to support politicians who act against their ( people 's ) best interest in protecting the corporations and reducing and limiting the regulators even further .
The best practices for this sort of thing : Do n't keep too much money and valuable jewerly around . You should have no more than a couple of thousand dollars lying about . Keep the exterior of your house clean and well-lit . Gates and doors , even if not locked , should be in good repair and consistently closed . Secure stuff like bikes , lawnmowers , etc in a place not visible from the outside of the street , preferably in a shed . Have decent locks and keep accessible windows closed and locked when you 're not home . Get a dog . In terms of electronics and such , you 're always at risk for some crackhead busting in your door and grabbing your iPod or whatever . Thieves do n't really care about clothes ... they want items quickly converted to cash : small electronics with resale value , cash , jewelry . Keeping things locked and having a dog are probably the best deterrents for that scenario . More professional/organized burglars who rob houses during the day stake out a neighborhood and look for places where their presence wo n't be noticed . If things are clean and consistent , your neighbors , police patrol , mailman , etc are more likely to notice something awry and call the police . That 's a risk factor for the " pro " thief , who will more likely look for a softer target . If you live in an area where there has been a burglary spree or you are really worried about this , get a basic , centrally monitored alarm system . If you 're not living a flashy lifestyle and are deliberately thinking about ways to look like you do n't have anything , it is money well spent . If you are living a flashy lifestyle , unwanted attention comes with the territory . In any case , feeling safe at home is something you need to be able to do .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
end question
