start question
TextMate 2 : How to permanently default to soft tabs ( spaces instead of tabs ) ?
TextMate 2 uses a special file called to control lots of settings in the app . It will use if present for global defaults . You can also add one inside a source tree to control settings for a particular project . The setting you 're looking for is : Just add that line to ( or create it if it does n't exist ) . You can read more about this file <URL> .
Starting in Lion , Apple added a command to Font Book . Open Font Book and choose :
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Most obvious cause would be that some other app has taken over the . pkg extension - maybe a file compression utility . Find any . pkg file &amp; Cmd ⌘ i to Get Info . Where it says Open with , select Installer , then Change All
Options provided by OSX Using your mouse , click and hold the window you want to move to another Space . a ) While still holding your mouse button down , use your Spaces keyboard shortcut to move to the desired Space . ( default : ctrl + & #x 2190 ; / & #x 2192 ;) b ) Drag the window to the edge of the screen . Wait a second or two and the window will be dragged into the next space . You can change the delay before the OS switches spaces using ... ( here 2 seconds ) Third-party solutions <URL> ( unlimited free trial available ) Your question has been asked before on <URL> .
After starting Safari , you can go to History - > Reopen All Windows from Last Session to have Safari reopen the windows and tabs that were open when you last used it . There 's some additional info in this question : <URL> , including a script ( Chealion 's answer ) that can be modified to start Safari and call that menu automatically .
One option would be to create ~ / Library/KeyBindings / and save this as DefaultKeyBinding.dict : You ca n't change ⇧ ⌘ ← or ⇧ ⌘ → though . And it does n't work in some text views or Xcode or Firefox . Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : It would make going back with ⌘ ← and changing tabs with ⇧ ⌘ ← stop working though . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> .
This is a new feature in Mac OS X Lion . See <URL> ( Resume ) . You can disable this in and untick the " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps , but will be system wide . Another solution is to hold ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + Q when quitting , the app will then not save the state .
You can simply copy them into ( for system wide use ) or ( for use by current user ) .
Apple allows widgets to be displayed on the desktop in order to allow the people developing the widgets to test them without using Dashboard . Your system must have had that capability turned on somehow and that widget set to run on your desktop . It 's very easy to get the widget off of your desktop , and make it so that no other widgets will accidentally be relocated . To get the widget off your desktop : click and hold on the widget , then press F12 to enter Dashboard . Once Dashboard is active , release the mouse from the widget . The widget is now docked in your Dashboard instead of on your desktop . You 'll probably have two copies of the widget in Dashboard now . You can get rid of one in the normal way ( press the plus button at the bottom left and click the on the widget ) . You can also just hold down the option key over the widget and the will appear . Now , to prevent other widgets from escaping Dashboard in the future : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Paste this in and press enter : If , on the other hand , you want to run some widgets on your desktop , you can run the above command with instead of . Then , activate Dashboard , click and hold on a widget , exit Dashboard , and release the widget .
I 'm with @Tetsujin on this one . I never use fullscreen apps . However , you could do what you want with <URL> . Make sure to check the compatibility info below the download button . Let 's say you use 3 fullscreen apps : Close the full screen apps and create 3 extra spaces . <URL> Once the shortcuts are created , <URL> Total Spaces will remember the shortcuts . <URL> , but do n't press the button . This essentially reserves spots for the full screen apps
There 's a nice looking piece of freeware worth trying called <URL> which looks like it 'll do the trick .
Overheating should n't be an issue . The SuperDrive probably runs hotter ( when it 's in use ) since it has moving parts An SSD would most likely improve performance ( especially if you use it as your boot drive and place for applications ) Do n't know about battery life , but I imagine if you you use this as your boot drive , and the stock hard disk as your " slave " , you might actually see an improvement ( again , fewer ' moving parts ' ) This will void your warranty , but if you 're careful you might be able to get in and out without leaving evidence of tampering . Consult iFixit 's guides for tips I ca n't imagine there would be a noticeable weight difference . Steve is dead , unless you 're talking about Steve Zahn . Steve Zahn does n't care what you do with your computer .
<URL> on the <URL> led me to <URL> where people discuss this issue in relation to an application called Cinch . In the <URL> about this on the apple forums , people mention several other applications that might be causing this issue too . What is causing this issue ? From what I can gather , this issue seems to be related to applications using Event Taps ( an API that lets applications directly listen for keyboard and mouse events ) . I think there is either A ) a bug in OS X where Event Taps sometimes stop working for whatever reason , or B ) application programmers consistently have a hard time using Event Taps correctly . What can I do about it ? If this is indeed caused by an OS X bug ( this seems the most likely to me ) , this issue ca n't be fixed completely by end users . There is one thing you can do that might make it happen less frequently though : In the <URL> , there is a <URL> that lists all running applications that have Event Taps open . It looks like this : I figure that the more applications you are running that have an Event Tap open , the more often you 'll end up with a clogged Event Tap somewhere , and you 'll have the spaces issue happen more often as a consequence of this . So , if you 're having this issue , try running as few of the applications that show up in EventTaps.app as you can . For whenever the issue does happen , kill the Dock using whatever method you find most convenient . I keep the AppleScript snippet that Chris R posted in <URL> in an . app on my Desktop , and run it whenever spaces locks up .
Your brother 's Apple ID probably still has his phone number associated with it for iMessage . The smoothest way to deal with this is to have him disassociate his phone number from his Apple ID . Apple has a self-service web site that explains how to accomplish this : <URL> If that does n't work , this older KB article has a helpful section <URL> . If he has other Apple devices ( Mac or iPad ) that are using his Apple ID , your iMessages may be being delivered there . If none of those devices are available when you send him an iMessage , your phone will eventually offer you the opportunity to resend the message as an SMS or MMS . Unfortunately you ca n't disable iMessage on a per-contact basis .
You should n't have to continually pair the mouse after every restart , this indicates there is a problem . First thing I would try is to power everything down , and then turn the mouse back on ( small switch on the bottom ) so that the mouse is " discoverable " before restarting . Ensure you follow these <URL> after restart . Make sure you have installed all system updates . OS X 10.6.2 , for example , fixed a problem with bluetooth pairing . If this still does n't fix the problem , you could try to Reset the System Management Controller ( SMC ) <URL>
At the moment there is not shortcut to add/remove spaces in Lion
The obvious benefit is to recompile the tools with optional features that Apple chose to not enable when they compiled the tools . Also , you can get newer options / patches / bug-fixes if you do n't mind the duplication and the fact that sometimes you also get new bugs with the newer code as well . The downside is that tools like tar and zip know about Mac OS X metadata that the MacPorts versions probably do not .
Indeed a severe annoyance . I spent a lot of time on the phone to Apple and no solution was achieved , only " wait " . I ended up doing a simultaneous reinstallation of OS X 10.10.3 and my iOS 8 devices and this has apparently made them go away . I have since upgraded to OS X 10.11 and iOS 9 and they disappeared for several months . However , they have just come back this AM for no apparent reason on startup .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
end question
start question
Is there an iOS4 app that when clicked will perform the same function as Settings - > Airplaine Mode on/off ?
Not without a jailbreak . If you get a jailbreak there are various ways to do things such as switch airplane mode on/off , adjust screen brightness , turn wifi/3G on or off . The app <URL> is one such example . You 'd be better off diagnosing your AP problem than jailbreaking your phone for just this feature though in my opinion .
There is No : True Multi-Monitor Support for a Single Display There is no way to get the OS to treat a single display as more than one display . You Can : Fill Defined Sections of your Screen with an App You can get very close to what you are looking for with a tool like <URL> or <URL> . They will allow you to fill sections of your screen with an app . Halves , quarters , etc. .
There is a website ( <URL> ) . But this will only work with iOS < = 5.0.1 .
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
Check out <URL> , it 's quite awesome . Boom boosts the volume of your Mac at all levels . From boosting the volume of your music on iTunes , it boom the YouTube videos playing on your web browser . You can now boost the volume of any application playing sound or video like QuickTime , Podcasts , Skype , iChat , DVD Player , Garageband , iMovie and so on .
EDIT : This is a feature in iOS 6 . You can schedule notification suppression by opening the Settings app > Notifications > Do not disturb . Original Post : Unfortunately , there is no native way to do that in iOS 5 . Like you thought , the notification center , currently does not allow customization in that way . I think Apple could have added features similar to that one , but have chosen not to , either because they have n't wanted to take the time ( but that has n't seemed to stop them in the past ) , or because they have a big focus on keeping things simple .
I have this in my bash_profile : It uses Applescript ( which you do n't want ) to change the terminal profile . Replace the and with your own color scheme names . When you use the ssh command , the macro changes the shell theme , then runs ssh . When you exit the remote session , it changes it back . Very cool ! I tried using the shell color escape sequences like and but the remote session can and does reset them . This works great for me .
I have n't found a detailed list of the exact behaviors . For the most part , it seems that everything is simply pixel-scaled ( which is why text looks bad ) , except for images which were scaled down to begin with . I presume that the class has some behavior to handle this automatically . On Retina devices , Apple 's built-in text and image rendering are aware of the scaling factor of the screen , and will render text and photos in high quality . But this does n't seem to apply to iPhone apps run on an iPad . ( See Apple 's <URL> for more information on that . )
Same rendering engine under the hood ( webkit ) , but different wrappers . Chrome uses UIWebView which does not include Content Blockers API . Due to performance , content blockers only work on new apple devices ( hardware ) , and not on UIWebView nor WKWebView .
Will ( Time Machine ) delete the oldest backups only from the current machine 's backups ( the retina MBP ) , or will it delete the PowerBook 's backups since those are technically the oldest ( even though they 're from a different machine ) ? Time Machine only deletes the oldest backup for the current machine . OS X utilizes the File System Event Store to log each UUID during the backup process . Your machine 's UUID should match whatever backups have been done previously for that machine , and only that machine 's events are handled . All other events are effectively ignored . You 'll need to thin them out by hand using this command : <URL>
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
Yes , application is called <URL> , and the technology behind it is darn impressive :) Have a look at the <URL> . But it only works for translations from english to spanish ( and vice-versa ) . Supposedly more languages to come but no progress since it launched .
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
LICEcap is free ( GPL ) , works on MacOSX , and capture animated GIF directly . <URL> It 's never too late ;-)
According to Logitech you need they <URL> download and installed . Make sure you pick the right OS X and follow the instructions .
I do use Stay and am happy with it :) But I also use another app that I really like called Slate ( <URL> ) . Slate is open source ( and free ) , and does allow to define things like Stay ( profiles : layouts of windows - which I think will fit your needs ) , but also allow move windows with keys combinations , and many other interesting things ... I also have dual display setups and managed to get things working fine with Stay . I have 3 setups two in dual display and one without external display and it works just fine , restoring the windows to their positions when I connect a particular profile ( I previously configured ... I had to create some simple rules ) . I use Slate for moving windows around with the keyboard ... I think it is a good combination :p Cheers !
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
Today I wore my Apple Watch on the inside of my wrist while weight lifting . I tightened it one additional notch compared to how I normally wear it during daily activities . Otherwise I had noticed that it would often lose my heart rate , even on the top of my wrist . This usually happened when my arms were vertical and/or the particular exercise required me to twist my wrists . I am happy to report my heart rate was detected without skipping a beat . The main downside is Activate On Wrist Raise is very finicky . I suppose that is to be expected since the Watch assumes it 's being worn on the top of your wrist . Possibly-relevant piece of information : I am Vietnamese with fairly light skin on the inside of my wrist . Your mileage may vary if you have darker skin . Also note that I 'm only verifying the proper function of the heart rate monitor . I have n't tested distance or step count estimates while wearing the device this way , although I do n't see why that should affect those functions . Edit : I tried again the following day and the Watch lost my pulse on occasion , on either side of my wrist , even when tightened as much as possible . I slid the Watch up my wrist a little and my pulse was detected correctly again . I think this is because when the Watch is too low , movements of your hand tug on the skin and make it harder to measure your blood flow .
The root user password has to be set by you and they could be the same if you choose so , but it is not advisable to do that . From the Apple menu choose System Preferences . From the View menu choose Users &amp; Groups . Click the lock and authenticate as an administrator account . Click Login Options . Click the " Edit " or " Join " button at the bottom right . Click the " Open Directory Utility " button . Click the lock in the Directory Utility window . Enter an administrator account name and password , then click OK . Choose Enable Root User from the Edit menu . Enter the root password you wish to use in both the Password and Verify fields , then click OK .
end question
start question
Is the gloss on iOS icons automatically applied ?
Yes , it is automatically applied by iOS . There is an option for iOS application developers to turn this off , called . This is a value in the , that can be turned on and off ( checking it would note that this is a pre-rendered icon , and to not apply the gloss ) . You can read more details in the <URL> . Web Applications ( <URL> ) also do have this reflection applied to them . You can override this by naming your file . <URL> .
I use eReader for my old PDBs on my iPhone as it 's the ' official ' reader put out by the same company that put out the original readers on Palm and Pocket PC devices . It works quite well for HVGA devices and is acceptable ( though the text is a bit pixelated ) on an iPhone 4 , but as they do n't have a dedicated iPad version , I would avoid using it on that device . edit : Looks like I spoke too soon - eReader just released an <URL> today that includes a native iPad client , though it looks like we 're still waiting on a retina display version .
Sorry , but no . As of iOS 5 , there 's no method for the user to adjust font/interface sizes unless the app gives you a specific control for it . iOS Mail does have a setting for minimum font size , but it only applies to the body of the message , not the message lists .
This feature seems to now exist in Apple Screen Sharing Version 1.5 ( 481.1 ) Or and then select
The great thing about a specific question is that it can be given a specific answer . For example , the OP said : " There 's an excellent Flickr app called SuprSetr which I 'd like to automatically launch each morning at 3:55 am . How ? " Answer : Save the following as ( or whatever name you prefer , but it should end with . plist ) and put it into the folder ~ / Library/LaunchAgents ( where ~ is your Home Directory ) : And then , once the file is in place , you should enter this command in Terminal : Then it will be ready to launch the app SuprSetr at 3:55 a.m. every day . ( Note : if the computer is asleep at 3:55 a.m. , it will run when the computer wakes up . ) From that specific example , once you understand that what this file does does is tell to run the Terminal command : at the hour ' 3 ' and the minute ' 55 ' , then it should be easy to extrapolate from that to other apps that you want to run at other times . Now , if you want to write these all by hand , you can do that for free , but an app like <URL> is a good choice ( I 'd recommend not buying the Mac App Store version , as the app seems to me like something that Apple is not going to like in the world of sandboxing , and you 'd get a more feature-rich app from the developer . My personal preference is for an app called <URL> which is free to try , and then the developer asks for something reasonable like US$ 10 , but there is no DRM , no license codes , but instead relies on the good ol' honor system . ( It 's my hope that people who use it will live up to the developer 's faith in that system . )
The cable has a faulty connection and takes effort to connect to the iPhone . The TV Out option was n't appearing because the cable was n't connecting to the iPhone unless I pushed it in , held it , and then gently left it alone . When that happens , the TV Out option appears .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
Go to your Keyboard Preferences , then Input Sources and you can see " Automatically switch to a document 's input source " . Check that .
This is a <URL> . Cellular downloads are limited to a file size of 20 MB or smaller . See comment below , iOS 5.1 has increased this limit to 50 MB .
There is a <URL> that converts your aliases into symlinks , which sounds like your best bet honestly . Aliases are n't useful for much really .
The shares shown are the one you set up in the Stocks app . Open * Stocks Tap the i on the bottom right corner Delete or add new shares Those will be the ones shown in the notifications screen .
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
That totally depends on the apps you want to do . Do they need GPS localization ? A microphone ? Front or back cameras ? Hi-res camera ? Besides , you ca n't test an iPad app on the iPhone , so you 'll need an iPad no matter what . Edit : According to the comment , an iPod Touch would be enough for you .
No , you ca n't . Because there is 2 different keyboard sets , what ca n't be mixed in one dictation process . That could be the same like you 'll try to dictate on 2 different languages in one time . That 's hard enough . But ... It 's just now , and who knows what kind of updates we will get with new iOS versions and new devices . By the way . You can use some common text emotions on english keyboard . At least one : :-) All that you need to say , it 's just : " Smiley " . Two more I know off the top of my head : :-( = ' frowny ' ;-) = ' Winky '
You 'll have to upgrade to the release version , not much else you can do about it .
<URL> ( free , or $ 0.99 <URL> ) will prompt you to open a copied URL on launch . You tap " Okay " and it opens a new tab in the foreground containing the page . I have n't been able to find an iOS browser which automatically opens the URL on the clipboard with no user action .
The version of Safari that ships with IOS 5 has much better performance than the versions that ship with iOS 4 , as reported in <URL> and <URL> . This increased performance may address the checkerboard rendering issue that you 've mentioned . HTML pipelining was introduced in iOS5 , and may help with the latency that results in slow rendering . Anecdotally , viewing web pages in Safari does seem a lot faster after I upgraded to iOS 5 . Regarding a rollback to iOS 4 if you do n't like iOS 5 - <URL> provides some detailed info in this <URL> .
Yes , there is way . And since you 're already jailbroken , it 'll be so much easier . Just open up Cydia and search for <URL> . It 's from the ModMyi repository , which comes preconfigured with Cydia . It allows you to select the DNS server to go through when using a cellular data network , and it does it right from the Settings app .
This will be extraordinarily difficult to do at run-time , and with any document . The few solutions that have implemented this technology ( remembrance agent <URL> and Dashboard <URL> are probably the most notable and " successful " ) required specific search indexers for each type of application and up-front document analysis . ( Very much how you ca n't search in Spotlight while it is " updating " . ) For example , if you typed the word " from " , you would not necessarily want to see all of your email messages just because they all feature the word as part of their metadata . However , if you typed " Art Taylor " , you would expect to see email , chat , and other documents related to me . The problem is of summarizing the semantic content from the structural content . That 's why DEVONthink requires you to import the documents . It can summarize the documents and present results more or less in real time , because it has done the summarization up front . Spotlight does some of this as well , but no great context aware knowledge and memory augmentation applications have popped up that offer universal document support . If you google " knowledge augmentation " , you will find a large number of articles and papers on the topic . People are very interested in this and I think it is just a matter of time before someone attacks the problem with a commercial solution . Gordon Bell had a tantalizing project called " MyLifeBits " <URL> that was a little over the top , but IBM <URL> is doing some research on associative recall . Note the " Capture " and " Ingest " stages . The scope of both of these is much beyond simple document relationships . Years ago , I tried the DEVONthink " put it all in there " approach , and as you probably suspect , it was a disaster . Best of luck .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
end question
start question
How to unlock iPhone 4 if original carrier does n't provide the service ?
As far as I know , you ca n't unlock with Apple after you 've purchased an iPhone . In the US , the laws regarding cellphone unlocking have n't changed , but a Library of Congress exemption to the law has recently not ben renewed so you might only legally unlock if your carrier allows .
The activity recorded on the Apple Watch is separate from the activity recorded on the iPhone . As such each is recorded as a separate source in health.app . Also only activity recorded on the Apple Watch is reflected in activity.app . Source : <URL> - Apple Software Engineer <URL>
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
From <URL> site : Night Shift is available on iPhone 5s or later , iPad Pro , iPad Air or later , iPad mini 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 6th generation ) . So I think It 's related to 64bit processor architecture .
Here is what we know : The iPhone 5c is for sale unlocked in the US at launch . The iPhone 5s is not for sale unlocked in the US at launch . It is unlocked at launch in many countries including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. . . The last phone launch had no 5c / 5s comparison ( unless you want to ignore the 5c and assume the 5s is handled identically to the 5 at launch . ) The iPhone 5 launch was <URL> and <URL> , you <URL> a <URL> . I would recommend you get confirmation that T-Mobile will unlock their contract-free but locked phone after a fixed amount of time or money , and get that in writing before you buy a US phone that is n't unlocked if you really need an unlocked iPhone . In informal discussions today , I was told that two months of service needs to be maintained before you can ask for an unlock , but I did n't get it in writing and ca n't find any mention of it on T-Mobile 's web site . Realize that any mobile carrier has limited devices and wo n't really want to sign up someone that will increase their churn rate and not be a " paying subscriber " when it comes time for them to report their quarterly subscriber counts .
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
I would say there is n't really any default music player on the iPhone . You could say that Apple 's Music-app is the one that opens when you press " Play " on the lock-screen or the " multitasking bar " , but there 's no real advantage in that . To answer your question , no . You are pretty much unable to change any default things in the non-jailbroken version of iOS . With that said , you can do some tweaks having jailbroken your device . If you would like to use Siri to play your Spotify music , there is a jailbreak app for that called <URL> . Other than that , you could use the jailbreak app <URL> . It makes the Spotify-application the one used on the multitasking bar .
I 'm not sure how to completely disable the process but I 've set up Little Snitch to disallow incoming / outgoing processes associated with the Game Center . It 's a useful little program .
By now it is possible to down-grade your baseband - at least for the iPhone 3G and 3GS ( unfortunately not 4/S ) - from the iPad 's 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( un-lockable ) thanks to the great work of the iPhone Dev Team : The iPhone Dev Team is happy to announce a baseband downgrade option in redsn0w for those who are using the iPad 's 06.15 baseband on the iPhone3G or iPhone3GS . Typically you 'd have the 06.15 baseband if you unlock with ultrasn0w but updated your iPhone baseband past 05.13.04 . With this new capability , you can now downgrade specifically from 06.15 to 05.13.04 ( even if you never had 05.13.04 on that device before ) . This gives you the best of both worlds : ultrasn0w compatibility and a normal iPhone baseband with full GPS and the ability to use stock IPSWs again . See <URL> on their blog .
If this iPhone model has a SIM card , try to put it to another phone/iPhone and try to disable SIM Pin . On iPhone : Settings - > Phone - > SIM PIN - > disable Then put this SIM again to your friend 's iPhone and reboot it . After restart , iPhone should automatically log in to cellular network and you should be able to disable the lost mode using iCloud page . Maybe your friend should consider using two factor authentication to enable additional protection to iCloud account : <URL>
It uses <URL> . But that 's a bit of a marketing term in so much as there is not one single thing called Quartz , but a group of things that work together to make the system called Quartz . Specifially , Quartz encompasses the set of systems needed to do rendering ( Quartz 2D ) , font management , graphics card interaction ( Quartz Compositor ) , OpenGL support , 3D acceleration and what not . The Quartz Compositor is the piece of the Quartz bundle that provides the server and window compositing and management features normally performed by the XServer and XClient pair . An addendum to this question might be : why did n't Apple just use X11 and the X Server ? And there 's <URL> from one of the primary Quartz developers : What Apple is providing is an Apple-original window system that is graphics model agnostic , as well as a vector drawing system that maps very well to PDF , which is a sort of PostScript without the non-graphical operators . This is packaged under the name ' Quartz ' for easy reference by Marketing types . The window system is designed to support both buffered ( like an offscreen PixMap ) and unbuffered windows , and is graphics model agnostic , working equally well with QuickDraw , OpenGL , the Quartz drawing engine , X11 , and third party solutions , and managing window geometry for the Classic , Carbon , and Cocoa environments . The server portion is a hybridization of screen arbiter and compositor models ( and if that 's all Geek to you , do n't worry about it ) . The Quartz drawing engine supports drawing primitives similar to the graphics primitives that might be found in the DPSClient single-operator primitives library for X and NeXTSTEP . There are no math and flow control primitives , as these can be done more efficiently in the native compiled code . There are no DPS or PS wrappers , as this optimization for server-side graphics is not needed in the Quartz client-side graphics model . The operations provide imaging and path construction and filling operations as well as some interesting other bits that map well into the direction that 2D drawing is headed . ( See Longhorn , or the X raster projects . ) The drawing engine can output to rasters ( like a window ! ) , as well as PS and PDF streams to feed printers . The Mac OS X printing system takes advantage of the capabilities of Quartz to support all sorts of printers , and make the life of printer driver developers much , much easier . Things we 'd need to add/extend in X Window software ( protocol + server + manager + fonts + ... ) : Extend font server and services to vend outlines and antialiased masks , support more font types , handle font subsetting . Extend drawing primitives to include PS-like path operations . Add dithering and phase controls . Add ColorSync support for drawing and imaging operations , display calibration Add broad alpha channel support and Porter-Duff compositing , both for drawing in a window and for interactions between windows . Add support for general affine transforms of windows Add support for mesh-warps of windows Make sure that OpenGL and special video playback hardware support is integrated , and behaves well with all above changes . We find that we typically stream 200 Mb/sec of commands and textures for interactive OpenGL use , so transport efficiency could be an issue . So , yes , it looks like we can use X for Quartz . All we need do is define extensions for and upgrade the font server , add dithering with phase controls to the X marking engine , add a transparency model to X imaging with Porter-Duff compositing support , make sure GLX gets in , upgrade the window buffering to include transparency , mesh warps , and really good resampling , and maybe augment the transport layer a bit . Ummm ... There does n't appear to be much code left from the original X server in the drawing path or windowing machinery , and it does n't appear that apps relying on these extensions can work with any other X server . Just what did we gain from this ? Oh , yeah . My mom can run an xterm session on her desktop now without downloading the Apple X11 package , a shareware X server or buying a software package . Been there , evaluated that .
You have two options to close an app : With the application hidden ( i.e. if you are currently at the home screen or are interacting with another app ) you can double-press the home button , hold down any icon in the app switcher until they all start to wiggle , and press the minus icon in the top left corner of the app you want to close . With the application in the foreground , you can hold down the power key until the " slide to power off " option appears , and then hold down the home button until the the application quits . The first option is faster .
Run Activity Monitor ( Applications/Utilities ) ; do you see the iTunes Helper service running ? Make sure you set the view to " All processes " , not " My Processes " . If it 's not running , that 's your problem . Re-install iTunes and away you go .
The thing is that the built-in Maps app uses Google Maps for the maps , and the Google Maps license does n't allow a third-party to implement voice navigation using it . So , Apple 's Maps is n't allowed to implement voice navigation , but any other GPS software provider can offer the feature along with their own maps . Here is a nice review of some of the GPS software available for the iPhone : <URL> Also , that situation could change , since Apple purchased a maps company a few years ago .
Apple does not allow developers to interact with the internal NFC chip at this moment . Currently the only extendable Apple SDK for this type of system is Wallet ( formerly PassBook ) . If your local transport station has an option to scan barcodes you can use third party tools to add your transportation pass barcode to Wallet .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
GPS uses satellites to triangulate your position with great accuracy , however there are other ways to get a fix provided you can triangulate via other means . Apple uses a database of WIFI networks with known locations to help ascertain your location in some instances ( i.e. if you can see WIFI networks A B and E , then you must be approximately located at Z for example ) . Also , using cellular information you can do a similar thing by noting which cells you are able to see and the relative signal strengths you are receiving from them . EDIT : Also , it is possible with a lesser degree of accuracy to estimate your location just by using your IP address . This can be tracked down to a certain extent and while likely not sufficient to be accurate by itself , when you combine this with all the other methods above you can start to get a picture with more accuracy .
If an iPhone does not have a SIM card , it will work with WiFi . However , if the iPhone is locked to a specific carrier , you can only activate it by plugging in a valid SIM card for that carrier . Once activated , the iPhone will be usable without a SIM card . In the US ( I am assuming you are in the US ) , most iPhones are sold as being locked to a carrier , and unlocked iPhones are rare . Outside the US , unlocked iPhones are more common .
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
You 've turned it off in Notification Center . Open Settings , then scroll to Notification Center and tap it . Scroll down to the " Include " section ; " Messages " should be there . If not you 've turned off notifications for it altogether ; scroll on down to " Do Not Include " and you should see it there . In either case , tap it . Tap the " Badge App Icon " switch so it 's on . Your messages count should be back .
end question
start question
After a iPhone is stolen , can that device 's iCloud backup be accessed ?
Apple does n't expose iCloud backups directly to end users via computer or web interface , but you can restore that backup onto pretty much any other iOS device . The new iPhone ( or any iOS device for that matter ) has iOS version the same or newer than the version backed up from the stolen phone . Simply erase all content on the current device ( losing everything in it ) and restore your old backup onto the device . Hopefully , have not " created " much new data on your new phone and do n't have to write down many new contacts or items or export any documents before you erase it . However , you could always back that device up to the same or different iCloud account or to iTunes and restore that once you 've gotten your data to a more portable form .
What you are experiencing are the benefits of working with resume . A feature introduced with Mac OS X Lion . It restores the state of the computer when shut down . Very useful , when having to restart because of some installation procedure . It reopens the used windows of applications . Quite useful since you do not have to navigate to a files location . Instead , just open the needed application to open the file . Unchecking the box does not have a permanent effect . This can be achieved by manual tweaking . Disable Resume upon login permanently Open the Terminal and enter : This command downloads a script and fully installs it . Voilà , you are done . If you want to revert to the default behavior of resume in lion , type this . Kudos to <URL> who wrote the script . Disable Resume when launching apps You can also disable Resume for applications on a per app basis . <URL>
My article at <URL> explains how to do this using the App store version of Evernote : Move ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support/Evernote to / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox . Create an alias of / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox/Evernote . Move the alias of / Evernote back to ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support /
Your answer lies deep in the settings app on your iPhone . Go to iCloud - Storage &amp; Backup - Manage Storage - your device Backup settings allow you to save space in iCloud by excluding app data in the next back up . You can toggle on more and more buckets of data until the estimate is low enough to allow the next backup attempt to succeed . When you turn off data under iOS 7 where it says Backup Options : Choose the data you want to back up . - this does delete the backup copy of that data , so consider paying for more space ( or cleaning up elsewhere ) if you can not afford to lose that backup copy . Assuming you have data you are willing to risk losing or is backed up to iTunes on a computer , then you can clean enough space and add things back slowly ( triggering another backup after each addition ) once a small minimal backup has been completed successfully . <URL> Furthermore , if you go to the above screen and turn off Camera Roll backup , it will prompt you to delete these files from the iCloud server backup , freeing the space immediately ( just because you delete the videos on the device , they take up backup space on iCloud until you purge the backup by category or delete it entirely and start over ) . Your iCloud space has to remain full of files that were backed up and now deleted on the device for it to function . After a few days of backups , the old backups expire and no longer take space but in your case you might want to purge them intentionally rather than wait for it to happen programatically .
This seems like it would be a good solution for you . No installation required , it should run on almost any desktop . <URL> This product also may meet your needs . <URL>
I recommend <URL> . It has apps for Mac OSX , Windows , iPhone , iPad and yes Android . It can sync all between these different platforms . By the way it 's free .
Login to iCloud , go to <URL> , select your phone in the drop down list on the top of the page , provided it has Find My iPhone enabled it should show up as offline . <URL> should be available .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
2 things : 1 ) They are not " made for " PCs , they may simply come pre-formatted . If they are USB , they will almost certainly work with any OS known to man that supports USB 2 ) NTFS support is read only , you can not write ( without 3rd party software ) but you can format as Fat 32 or EXFAT etc and have the drive be read/write by almost any OS including Windows/Mac/Linux etc /
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
Not very good solutions , but it works for me . I deleted all profiles , certificates . Then I generated new profiles , certificates and install it .
As of now , there is no API for Apple developers to use to connect to Siri . That may or may not be changed in the future ; see e.g. . <URL> for discussion .
iCloud backups the following : Photos and videos in the Camera Roll Device settings ( for example : Phone Favorites , Wallpaper , and Mail , Contacts , Calendar accounts ) App data Home screen and app organization Messages ( iMessage , SMS , and MMS ) Ringtones Visual Voicemails It might be due to your app data size and also if this is the first time backing up then it will take a bit longer . Have a look at this <URL> , it will explain why else it might take longer .
How to get serial numbers for displays : Go to . Open this with TextWrangler or a similar utility . Look for a key with an integer value that is n't 0 . With any luck , this should be the s/n of your display . If you have n't used this display for a while , the records of it may be gone . Also , it appears that this is n't guaranteed . Double-check if possible . How to get the serial numbers for iPods : Open . Look under the Devices dictionary . Any iPod you 've connected will have all its info there , including the s/n ( under ) . Good luck .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
iCloud backups are incremental . You 'll continue to complete backups when connectivity is restored .
From my own testing , it seems to depend on how you delete the note ... If you delete the note on iCloud.com : You can easily recover the note by going to the Trash folder . If you delete the note on an iOS device : You can recover the note by restoring the device ( if it 's been backed up ) . You can recover the note from a device that has n't recieved the latest sync changes .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
end question
start question
How to check if MacBook screen is genuine ?
In terminal.app you can paste this command to find out which display you 're using : which should return all of your Graphics/Display information . Now the question is what is genuine ? Apple and just about every other company uses parts from many different manufacturers at any given time . The only way to know is by identifying the exact model and serial number of your MacBook Pro and then determining which part was used in that particular batch .
Whether your internet connection is slow may have several reasons : poor , instable connection geographic location total traffic on the network you 've reached your cap ( see contract ) For the normal users it 's difficult to determine what the exact reason is . Especially in dense areas , the promised speed is not reached sometimes because the total traffic of all users is very high . Where I live , the same network is used by different providers , adding additional complications . In order to judge if your network connection slower than usual , you should test and record your network speed for several times throughout a month . You can use <URL> to get stats about Download , Upload and Ping . You can use this data to check the speed you 've been promised by your provider . Check your contract to see what speed you have been promised . Most contracts throttle the speed after you have reached a cap .
Not possible with keyboard only at the moment . For whatever reason , Apple decided to not use the default OS X behavior for toggling checkboxes ( Space ) in Aperture .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
You can try to run a proxy server locally , and change your Network preferences to point to that proxy , and check in the proxy logs to see if the app sends its request through it . I would suggest using <URL> . It 's quite easy to use : just change our proxy settings in Network preferences to either HTTP proxy or SOCKS proxy , and you should start seeing outgoing requests if you use your browser . Once you do , try using your custom app to see if it sends its request through the proxy or not . Best of luck .
Apple advises first trying : Hold down the Power button for 10 seconds . If that does n't help , do a Power Manager ( SMC ) reset . No problem . See this Apple support page for directions for specific Intel machines : <URL>
I would install aspell with a package manager like brew and then run that on the . tex file . Unless I 'm mistaken emacs has support for aspell built-in . You can also turn on spell checking in your terminal ( iterm2 ) or emacs GUI .
You can acheive this with a combination of Growl and some shell scripting . Growlnotify is a command line tool that can send a message to growl : Wrapping some logic around this to check for CPU use or Memory use should be straightforward enough . I 'm not at a Mac right now so ca n't test with commands but something like the following should be possible Thew above is n't going to work , please do n't copy and paste it , but it 's something to go on . You can expand the logic further easily by checking every 2 minutes , and if it 's over 80 % then check every 30 seconds to see if it 's persistantly high and not just a spike , and if its still high after 3 checks then alert , otherwise do n't etc. .
You can list specifically which audio devices your system is using in Terminal : Another way you can determine if you have the combination audio port is when you 're viewing you will have an output option that shows up on the input tab .
90 ˚c is typical for that system under high load ; anything > than 95 ˚c is when you might want to be concerned . If the CPU gets too hot , or starts to overheat , the system ( typically ) will clock down the CPU to prevent overheating . The fans should n't wear out , so I do n't really see any point in trying to replace what 's not broken . Intel Mac 's run hot , and the fact that the only fan is an output fan does n't help with heat dissipation . Something you could do to help alleviate some of the heat is to download <URL> ( free ) and adjust your fans RPM . Instead of the standard 1800 RPM set it at 3500-3600 RPM , which should help cool down the temp possibly 2-10 ˚c . You might notice more noise from the higher RPM , although you should n't worry about it -- MacBooks fans generally max out at around 6,000 RPM , and I 've cranked one up to 8,700 RPM before .
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
You do n't need any special tools like xcode or a debugger to pick apart the virtual memory system in terms of allocation and summary statistics . I would start with from the command line and perhaps pass in the PID or process name you care about . It samples that app , but you also have the PID and information on that suspect program with all the diagnostic information . Passing in the process ID will run vmmap , heap and ( perhaps ) other good diagnostics or added details on the program in question . You 'll want to focus on the zprint.txt and allmemory.txt first . The sysctl.txt has some vm information as well and fs_usage.txt shows file access , but generally not swapping . There are unix manual pages for most of these tools as well as the sysdiagnose script is readable so you can see what it does or change it to collect . You might want to enable thorough mode on the script in case that added information on the PID helps you isolate the cause . Happy hunting ...
I 've had that issue before , and it indeed seems to be a bug of sorts . As evidenced by the fact that one should n't have to hold their phone up to direct light , or manually adjust brightness on a frequent basis . I would recommend starting with a phone reboot - hold down the power and home button until you see the Apple logo . This may help the situation Next , you could also try turning off " Automatic Brightness " . Open the Settings app , tap " Brightness &amp; Wallpaper " , then switch " Auto-Brightness " off .
If you are very lucky it is just dirt and can be wiped off but usually it is permanent and there is n't much way to avoid them . I have seen it happen even when a soft cloth is used to cover the keys when the lid is closed . In fact that may even make it worse as the cloth adds thickness to the sandwich and may make the contact between the high points of the screen and the keys firmer . The screen surface of an anti-glare display just is n't very hard - glossy glass is harder but can still be marked . Using a quality micro fibre cloth with a 70 % water/30 % isopropyl alcohol solution is a good way to clean the marks off if they are not permanent . I have been using the cleaning solution provided by my optician for my glasses for years with no ill effects , and I love the iKlear blue microfibre cloths ( for both glasses and displays ) . They call it " terry " as opposed to their " chamois " cloth .
So apparently you can use the Back To My Mac infrastructure to get to SSH even if there 's no port open on the router in front of the relevant Mac : Find your iCloud account number by executing this command in terminal : Example output ( Make a note of the number on the last line , in this case 123456789 ( this is just an example ) . The hostname you need to use for ssh is < computer 's local hostname > . < number above > . members.btmm.icloud.com . Replace spaces with hyphens , and omit apostrophes ( the default name is " Name 's < type of Mac > " ) The command I used therefore was : To complete the solution to my problem ( rebooting ) , once logged in via SSH , I used the following command to restart : ( Sourced from <URL> )
Check this : <URL> , it is not very recent , but should work for 3GS . The model number can also be found in Settings - > General - > About . This way you should be able to check if it is AT&amp;T or Rogers
I 'm not sure that this is quite the solution that you 're looking for , but the utility <URL> does make sure that windows return to a set position when connecting an external display . I have n't had a chance to use it myself , but since purchasing a new external display , I must say it 's tempted me . You might also check out this related <URL> , which has more suggestions . A quick search pulled up this <URL> , which might also solve your question by disabling the sleep signal sent when you close the lid ... Someone with stronger terminal-fu than myself might know some direct CLI commands to do this directly .
What you can do is use the laptop on a solid underground . Especially if you use a pillow ( which where you laptop completely sink in ) , the pillow is covering the laptop 's ventilation holes . And it 's even stated in <URL> : Do not push objects into the ventilation openings . The exhaust is the screen hinge , but the intake is most likely all the other cracks and holes in the case . And if the laptop ca n't take enough fresh air ( since you 're covering most of the cracks and holes with your pillow/blanket/lap ) , the fans have to work very hard to get all the hot air out . Try to lift up your Mac as you 're sitting on your bed , does that improve the activity of the fans ? But no worries , you 're laptop wo n't suffer from the heating . And if it get 's too hot , it will shut itself down ( to prevent damage ) , so then you 'll know you 've gone too far :) Another thing what makes your Mac blow like a turbine is playing flash-files or converting stuff , but I guess you 're not doing that since you have n't got any high CPU or HDD activity .
It depends how " minus " . In general , li-on batteries live longer if you respect their acceptable operating temperatures . In the case of your Macbook Pro , <URL> has a dedicated page with tips about Battery Maintenance . If you observe the temperature graph on the left , the Minus degrees are not in the " I like this " zone . Truth is , your MBP will get warm relatively fast , but if your MBP is at 0ºC , I 'd wait a little bit . At those temperatures , depending upon the dew point and the humidity ( among other factors ) the risk of running moisture is higher , especially if the MBP will start heating fast when you turn it on . Just let the machine heat for a few minutes at room temperature to be safe . Of course , if you have to use it one day , the battery is not going to die on you . Remember , extreme temperatures are enemies of batteries ! The cold Swedish tundra is not a friendly place for a Li-on battery :)
end question
start question
Using a wi-fi and an ethernet connection at the same time thus having more bandwidth ?
Even with multi-homing on iOS 7 starting to allow traffic over LTE and WiFi simultaneously , there is n't a good way to accomplish this on OS X Mavericks and lower . I have run <URL> on macs since 10.4 and it 's really nice when you have a gigabit switch . You will need a switch that runs LACP and two physical ethernet ports like is typical on G4 &amp; G5 PowerMacs days and of course the entire MacPro line . This is built into the OS X network stack and you need nothing but the hardware and a compatible ethernet switch . Mac OS X wo n't show LACP as an option without two ethernet ports . I do n't know of a switch that does LACP over wireless or allows mixing of wired and wireless interfaces . You might be able to trick the OS some way , but without the switch to cooperate you 'll have to rewrite LACP on the switch for that to work . It 's much easier to segregate certain traffic over specific interfaces by modifying your routing table . This will allow you to send some traffic over wifi and others over the wire . For example netflix and such could be routed over one connection if you set up a route to their network to prefer one gateway IP on the ISP you prefer . It 's not feasible to tell an application to use only one interface as that has to be " baked " in to that app and not common practice . What is common practice is to use local routing tables ( or routing tables on the router ) to steer certain traffic to one gateway . More sophisticated routers have quality of service where you specify some metric like VOIP or video conference traffic is a priority - so when the network is overloaded in some specific , measurable way , then non critical traffic will be shaped or steered to a different route to keep the fast network clear for better responses . These routers and the knowledge to run them do not come cheaply . I 'd guess $ 3k us for the hardware and triple that for training and software licenses on the routers .
Are you sure you need to have a software solution within Windows ? Many HDTVs let you adjust current display settings to disable the overscan . See <URL> . Quote : If you do n't see every pixel you should see , you 're not viewing a true 1920 by 1080 progressive-scan picture . The name of the viewing mode differs from brand to brand , but it 's commonly called Dot-by-Dot , Point-to-Point , Just , or simply Overscan Off . To add to that , on my own HDTV , choosing " Studio " under the Aspect setting has the effect of eliminating the overscan . I 've also seen it called simply " PC " on another TV , and " Just Scan " on another . Check your HDTV 's settings ... chances are it has something like this and you are n't aware of it . Though , admittedly there are some HDTVs without such a capability ( sadly ) and for these you 'll need to find a solution that lets you reduce the resolution output to the HDTV . Update : I found the following article explains well both the issue and troubleshooting steps : <URL> . Plus : some folks have successfully replaced the Apple video drivers in their Bootcamp Windows with ATI drivers , in order to access settings to compensate for the HDTV overscan . See this blog post : <URL> . Got ATI video in your Mac ? Worth a shot perhaps , if you do . Take a backup before messing with drivers , of course .
The simple answer is no - in general the one camera only sends data to one app . The more complicated answer is that the API ( application programming interface ) that Apple publishes enforces this restriction . If a developer hooks into the hardware directly or there is a bug in the API , it is possible to share that stream . So for most Apps made by someone other than Apple , once the iSight is in use by one application , it is unavailable to other applications until the application releases the use of it or the application closes . User <URL> rightly points out that this is not the case for Facetime and Photobooth , where Apple is either using an undocumented or private API or accessing the hardware directly so that both apps can share the camera feed .
Currently it ca n't . Photo Stream settings are detected via the iCloud preference pane and is global to your machine . Until it can support multiple iCloud accounts , iPhoto can only connect to one Photo Stream at a time . Since it 's only a temporary store of the last photos taken I am assuming Apple will most likely not make this possible . I normally move my photos from the Photo Stream to Flickr to achieve this since you can have multiple Flickr accounts . Look into <URL> with photo upload if you want to merge photos from multiple devices into one collective stream . From there you can use the Mac client and Folder Actions to automate importing , processing and other tasks as needed .
AirDrop uses Bluetooth to create a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi network between the devices . Each device creates a firewall around the connection and files are sent encrypted , which actually makes it safer than transferring via email . AirDrop will automatically detect nearby supported devices , and the devices only need to be close enough to establish a good Wi-Fi connection , making it possible to share files across several rooms .
I have tested this with my own app and home server ( plus my horrid internet at one part of my house ) . I created an application that sends an HTTP request to the server when you press a button and an application on my server that makes a sound when it receives it and records the IP address . When the app was allowed to use cellular data , it went through quickly and had an external IP ( confirming the request went through cellular ) . When it was not allowed to use cellular data , it tried to use Wi-Fi and eventually did send the request ( after some time ) , using a local IP address . So Wi-Fi assist does respect the rules that you have set in your phone 's settings .
Harv , This is not the answer you want to hear . I went with the Brother printer/scanner models because it was clear that the HP drivers that they supply to Apple often do not support network scanning ( there may be a few exceptions ) . The Brother drivers do . The other recommendation I have seen is to use the drivers that come with the OS , not the installable ones . In some cases , it seems that the scan works when the installables are not present . Also , if the printer has SMB sharing , that sometimes needs to be turned on ( usually only available on the higher end models with hard drives ) . ~ Hilton
Select " Preferences ... " from the Menu " Terminal " go into " Settings " and select your default window configuration , go into the tab " Keyboard " Have a look at all keybindings , ( eg . forward delete is bound to \ 033 [ 3 ~ ) and note you can change them by double clicking ( thats easier to use than bind in your ) . If you choose to use & #x 2325 ; as meta-key , & #x 2325 ; + backspace will work immediately , though this setup might break special characters you can only input by pressing & #x 2325 ; together with them ( depending on your keyboard layout ) . If you don ´ t use that , you can delete by pressing esc and than backspace . For forward-deleting a whole word , use either & #x 2325 ; + D or esc and than D.
Yes , it is possible , and great fun ! One way to synchronize apps is using Korg 's WiST technology . This allows apps on multiple iDevices to synchronize over WiFi . They maintain <URL> on their site . Another method is to slave all of your iDevices to a single MIDI clock ( e.g. a drum machine that sends clock over MIDI ) . There are multiple ways to get MIDI into your device including the Alesis IO Dock , the iRig MIDI , and the Line6 MIDI Mobilizer . This is a little more hassle than the WiST approach because you have to wire up a bunch of cables , but it opens up a larger group of apps since there are many apps that support CoreMIDI that do not support WiST . When shopping for apps in the App Store , look for any that say they support CoreMIDI . <URL> has a good starting list , but is by no means comprehensive . Finally , in addition to this multiple-iPad fun , you can also make use of MIDI between apps on a single iPad . e.g. Running a sequencer that is controlling a synth app running in the background . Not all CoreMIDI apps support it , but many do . I 've been having a great time using the Genome sequencer app to control synths such as Animoog . It 's a great time to be a musician and have an iDevice ... much is possible now that was impossible only months ago !
So lets compare the i5 family of CPU on MBP . The i5 is a brand name for a family of processor , that is why is it still called i5 . Core i5 " 2.4 13-Inch ( Late 2011 ) features a 32 nm " Sandy Bridge " 2.4 GHz Intel " Core i5 " processor ( 2435M ) , with two independent processor " cores " on a single silicon chip with a 3 MB shared level 3 cache . The <URL> has up to 2.9 GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.3 GHz ) with 3MB shared L3 cache . Based on this alone the 2015 model is > 30 % faster .
Apparently , it 's coming soon to Eye-Fi cards , and they will have firmware upgrades for all existing cards . . <URL>
I had this problem connecting to the local public library system network . The problem seems to be a result of my having specified DNS servers ( ( i.e. OpenDNS , Google , etc. ) ) in my Network preferences . The solution was to create a network location called " No DNS " which does n't have any DNS servers defined and use that network location when I need to log into these networks .
There have been hacks in the past to enable tethering , but in almost all cases , the carrier can tell what you are doing . I have even heard that people that tethered were individually contacted by AT&amp;T to let them know that the tethering fee would be added if they wished to continue tethering and asked the customers to come in to chat if there were perhaps a misunderstanding . You 'll want to look for an unofficial AirPlay receiver app on the jailbreak side of things since Apple is n't even <URL> - let alone video apps . Long term - let 's hope enough people push for <URL> in the US cellular space so that there is one tariff for data based on volume - not how you intend to use that data .
As you said that <URL> did n't work fine for you then I search in web and find : <URL> it disables the automatic backup function of Time Machine and installs its own launchd daemon . <URL> ( free software ) allows you to specify a schedule for Time Machine to run . it changes the one-hour interval of Time Machine backups . You can change the interval or decide to make daily , weekly and monthly backups .
You can multi-select &amp; delete from System Prefs > Network > WiFI > Advanced ... Shift ⇧ or Cmd ⌘ Click to select multiples , then hit the -- button underneath . Note that this will also clear the same settings from any linked iDevice . <URL>
If you 're using iTunes to play music , it 's actually much easier than that , and does n't require any other software . In iTunes , click on the Airplay icon next to the volume control , click " Multiple " and select the devices you wish to play through . <URL>
This is not possible as iOS apps are not able to control system hardware such as Wi-Fi .
Exactly say this : Set alarm for [ time ] labeled [ insert name here ] This works for me every time , thus it should work for your appointments or alarms too . Make sure you say labeled right : click here for the <URL> and just make sure the names are n't too long . Names I 've tried : Hello Triangle Square
I 've changed the setup to use the same SSID for all APs and I observe much faster handover times , at least on my iOS devices . Have n't done yet any tests with Macs though . So far I have n't reduced power levels as @ScunnerDarkly suggested because I 'm satisfied with the results right now .
iTunes ca n't download pictures from iOS devices to your computer , not even when connected via USB . The sync option allows you to upload pictures from a selected folder from your computer to the device . On Windows , you can use the system camera import option -- some methods on how to enable it if it 's not working are described <URL> -- , <URL> , <URL> app on windows 8 and 10 , and a long list of apps ; all of them require you to plug your device to your computer . There appear to exist pure wireless alternatives , one called " Wifi Photo Transfer " - <URL> ; and " Wifi Transfer App " - <URL> ; look at the " Customers Also Bought " section as there appear to be a lot of apps that do what you want . I have n't tried any of them . If you 'd rather never worry about manually syncing , and do n't want to use iCloud Photo Library marvelous service , that even takes care of reducing the space used by your pictures , I suggest you try Dropbox that does what you want -- via internet though , and if you either have bad passwords , reuse them , or , god forbid , <URL> and you do n't react quickly you may be in trouble . Google has <URL> , closer to iCloud Photo Library in functionality , but you 'll have to install Google Drive on your PC and activate the Photos folder inside Drive in order to have a hard copy on your computer . Also , depending on your settings and how many pictures you have , you may have to pay with Google or Dropbox ( and iCloud as well ) . Lastly , you may enable <URL> , which in my opinion is very complicated but it automatically copies your pictures ( via iCloud ) to your computer ; if iCloud Photo library is off <URL> thus your fear of your pictures leaking is at least minimized because a third person looking to steal your pictures will have to set up a device with your iCloud credentials in order to retrieve said pictures , and it will alert you of that event on all signed in machines . You can also add <URL> authentication to your device if you are worried about your privacy .
end question
start question
Install shuf on OS X ?
You can install coreutils with . will be linked as . Read the caveats when you install coreutils .
The installation disk coming with a computer is for that computer model only , and I would not expect this to work . If your MacBook runs 10.5 you are eligible for the 10.6 upgrade for $ 29 . I can highly recommend it , if nothing else , for the fixes in Time Machine .
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
You can install coreutils with . will be linked as . Read the caveats when you install coreutils .
Look in / var/log for and . contains the most current logs ; the other files are archives of successively older log files , made whenever each one reached a maximum size .
That should be possible . At least it was possible for previous OS X 's , but I do n't see why they changed it . So yes , you can run the installer from the second hard drive onto the first one . You can even install any other OS X onto another partition on the same hard drive .
Open Terminal , and type this command to list all partitions on your hard drive or SSD : Identify the " Recovery HD . " For example : Then run the following ( replacing [ ID ] with your identifier ( will most often be disk0s3 ) . So the following would look like : The disk image inside the Recovery HD partition has been marked invisible , so use the Terminal command to mount it : Now , from the newly mounted Mac OS X Base System Image , double-click the ' Install Mac OS X ' application and proceed past the licensing agreement . Choose the external drive or spare partition when the installer asks where you 'd like to install OS X Lion . Once the installer completes the download , do not restart your system . Rather , quit the installer . If you restart , you 'll likely lose the local Lion installer . Once you have the InstallESD.dmg in the Mac OS X Install Data folder , you can burn it to a DVD , or image it to a USB flash drive to create your very own Lion boot disk . This article was adapted from : <URL> All credits go to : <URL>
Correct . Shark was replaced with Instruments . There is a set of tools from Apple called CHUD that does still include Shark . It 's available <URL> . It does require you to have a Developer Account to download . However there has been limited success in getting it to work on Lion . It 's safe to assume that Shark has bitten the dust .
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
For comparisons , see : <URL> Agreed with the others : yes , use SBCL or CCL . CCL makes it easier to invoke ObjC libraries , such as for writing native Mac Apps . That becomes the tie-breaker for some . ( Personally , I 've enjoyed using both but tend to stay current on SBCL as my main compiler for server software . ) For completeness : CCL is Clozure CL ( not to be confused with one spelled using " j " in middle , which is another dialect than Common Lisp ) . SBCL compiles to faster code , and CCL has shorter compile times . Both are solid compilers . For targeting iOS/iPhone/iPad , there 's been some success with ECL . See : <URL> But I would n't consider this a front-runner and have n't actually used it myself yet beyond samples posted on that blog . Although MacOSX thread support is considered experimental with SBCL and self tests will fail if you compile from sources ( which is required to enable threads ) , threads work well enough for most cases . I 've deployed heavily threaded production code by developing on MacOSX then releasing to servers running FreeBSD ( which also has similar issues with threads ) and Debian/Ubuntu Linux ( very stable ) . This has served me well for the past 5-6 years , including at a few start-ups . QuickLisp ( for obtaining libraries ) is very stable on SBCL/MacOSX . Have n't tried it on CCL but should be rock solid there too !
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
You can create your own recovery disk with <URL> and a blank USB drive that is at least 1 GB . Alternatively , your Mac can boot into <URL> mode in which it downloads an image from Apple 's servers , and it can do this with a damaged recovery partition or even a blank hard drive -- it 's built into the firmware of the system . To access it , boot up while holding Command + R . You can do this over a wireless network that is either unprotected or WPA-secured , or you can use an Ethernet connection . In both cases , your system will need to download OS X from Apple ( the recovery partition does not contain a full OS X. )
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
The easiest and most pain free way is to use homebrew <URL> Once you follow the instructions to install homebrew on this page ( which include installing Xcode ) , you can then simply type And this will download and compile wine and all its dependendencies .
As you said , the only option is to compile the source code . You can download from the <URL> . There is a <URL> . To install it , your have to uncompress the downloaded file . Once done , cd to sSMTP-master directory . The generic compilation process is executing the following commands one by one : The command can be altered with lots of parameters . To let you know your options , you can run
Macally makes two USB-based game controllers that are OS X compatible . Both are around USD$ 30 at the time of writing on Amazon . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also pair a Sony Playstation DualShock 3 bluetooth wireless controller with OS X without the need for any additional drivers . Everything you need is built right in to Snow Leopard and Lion . Press the PlayStation logo on the controller and OS X should show the controller in the list of available devices to pair with under the BlueTooth menu bar list . Once paired you 'll need to map the buttons to key actions so it works with your games . For that you can use the <URL> from the App Store .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
Nice HDD setup ! Load Terminal.App in the utilities folder , and use the following command : sudo pmset - a hibernatefile / Volumes/OtherVolume/sleepimage Obviously change / OtherVolume/sleepimage to / YourOtherVolumesName/sleepimage From <URL> . ( EDIT : that webpage shows even the author did not succeed with this method . Likely reason is the other drive is not ready to read the image when trying to wake up . Apple says the sleepimage must be on the root drive . I myself am getting a crash when trying this . )
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
end question
start question
Why is my Macbook Pro getting so slow ?
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
Just realized , it is on my side and my upload is saturated since I installed Photos - so it is not Apple 's fault : If I am not mistaken , it should be done in about 12-15 days .
I had an old Powerbook G3 that had lost 2 of it 's rubber feet . Instead of trying to replace them with the same ones , I just went to a hardware store and bought the little rubber stick-on feet that you could put on the bottom of furniture or a TV stand or whatever . Cost all of about 99 cents and worked perfectly . They looked something like this :
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
Yes , videos and photos are stored in messages and they take up too much space . Try deleting any large discussion thread you do not need if you would like to free some space . Or , if you would like to weed out individual photos or videos , you can tap and hold on any message bubble for the context menu . It will appear with two options : " Copy " | " More " . Tap " More " for a list of checkboxes to appear on the left side of the screen . This allows you to easily delete one or more ( large ) individual messages . Up to iOS 6 messages just were n't in the usage tab , and consequently one could n't easily see how much space it consumed . Also note , that you are just deleting those messages off of that device . If they are iMessages , and you have other devices ( a Mac or OSX device ) with those accounts synced there , the messages will stay there .
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
Yes . That 's normal . As for " okay " -- it depends . The heat is coming from the extra graphic activity and CPU activity you 're asking your machine to perform when playing the games . The MBPro is vented at the back , along the hinge between the screen and the keyboard , you want to make sure that area is free of obstructions and the hot air can leave escape unimpeded . Long-term exposure to high operating temperatures can certainly be detrimental to the components in your machine . But for the most part , if your machine 's venting is unobstructed , it should be able to cool itself adequately .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
That 's not " ticking , " that 's a creak from the flex in the aluminum chassis . The MBP is not a brick of aluminum but a computer inside a hollow shell . While built solid , there is still play in the materials . The sound you 're hearing is likely the case pressing against the RAM , the battery connector , or the metal protector right beside the battery connector ( or perhaps another component inside the machine ) . If you are worried , take it into Apple . But they 'll tell you the same thing .
From what I 've seen so far from others with the same laptop is that it 's normal . One possible fix/improvement to this is the latest Apple SMC update which contains some fixes for this : <URL> It also reduces the amount of noise your fans start making with even a little bit of load so it is quite useful .
According to Apple Support : Double Data Rate Small Outline Dual Inline Memory Module ( DDR3 ) format 67.6 mm x 30mm ( 1.18 inch ) 2 GB or 4 GB 204-pin PC3-10600 DDR3 1333 MHz type RAM Source : <URL>
This is due to the nature of garbage collection technology used in Java . Freeing memory in such systems is delayed until some threshold reached , or out of memory happens , or some time passes . It is probably not using all those 700MB all the time ( may as well be just 50 MB ) , but Activity Monitor has no way to look inside Java virtual machine and tell how much is actually used . Normally , if there are no bugs or leaks ( yes GC systems may leak too ) , Java should give up unused memory whenever your system runs out of it , so there is no need to worry right now . Said that , if you do n't need the program , it wo n't hurt uninstalling whatever is starting it up .
If you want it right now , why not plug the phone into the Mac &amp; use Image Capture , in the Applications folder - which is the importer ' behind ' Photos.app . You can also set it to auto-launch any capable app , including itself , when a device is connected [ or do nothing ] &amp; set exactly where your imports should be saved . You can also dictate whether it should auto-delete from the device afterwards , or alternatively you can manually delete any selected pictures . <URL>
Not exactly a solution , but some observations that might provide a clue : Issue also seen on my Mac mini ( Mid 2011 - 2.7 GHz Intel Core i7 + 8 GB DDR3 ) after upgrading from Lion to Mountain Lion QuickTime no longer saves the recording to ~ / Movies/Screen Recording.mov , but instead saves it to some temp location and when done recording , you need to save/export it . Downgrading quality to medium quality did n't help [ Update 11/17 ] Even my new Macbook Pro Retina 15 " has this issue . I happened upon a tutorial that showed someone using VLC to screen capture on a Mac and decided to give it a try . It turns out that functionality was removed from VLC on Lion and Mountain Lion and the reason was provided in this this thread : <URL> : Apple completely removed the API to capture the screen and replaced it with something totally different . Until anyone steps up and implements the new one , this feature is not available to Lion users . It remains accessible to Snow Leopard and Leopard users of course . I 'm not sure if this is also what 's causing QuickTime on Lion + to be super slow . I did find an alternative which is working out really well for me : <URL> Available on the App store for $ 10 and records w/o performance issues . I was skeptical at first , so I downloaded its trial , and was extremely happy with the performance . $ 10 is definitely more than free , but depending on how often you need to record your screen , this is well worth the money in my opinion . It supports both JPEG and H. 264 encoding , but only records up to 25fps . For audio , it allows you to select which input and even allows you to use the computer audio ( something QuickTime did n't allow and you had to use a separate utility like Soundflower ) .
Almost all apps downloaded from the Apps Store are full ( self-containing ) updates or upgrades . They completely replace the updated app . The only exception updating your system with the App Store.app are security updates ( e.g Security Update 2015-002 ) or system updates ( e.g. System Update 10.11.1 or Combo Update 10.10.5 ) which do n't necessarily replace an app/framework/resource but often only parts of it .
end question
start question
How do I get a backslash when in Japanese input mode in Yosemite ?
Turns out there 's a setting in Keyboard Settings . Change to No idea why Yosemite changed that setting from whatever it used to be or if it did n't exist before why they felt the need to change the behavior .
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
Try <URL> . It 's an automatic updater that automatically updates your Dropbox to the latest forum build of Dropbox . Works on OS X Leopard | Snow Leopard | Lion . Edit : it 's also Growl-enabled , so you may get notified whenever Dropbox 's been updated .
Yes you can !!! Open the MPlayerX Preferences window by pressing & #x 2318 ; + , or via the menu MPlayerX & #x 2192 ; Preferences ... Go to the Advanced tab in the Preferences window . In the textfield with the label Extra Options enter , where is the number of times you want to loop .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
iOS does have an Armenian font and can therefore display Unicode Armenian in emails , webpages , and text . For input there are at least two apps that let you construct custom keyboards , and one of them , UniKey , comes with Armenian already : <URL> Beyond that or jailbreaking , I think all you can do is ask Apple to add it via their feedback channel . PS To see Armenian display on your iOS device you can go to <URL>
If you 're running OS X on a HDD then I do n't see how TRIM enters the equation , since TRIM is only for SSDs . If want to do a <URL> simply <URL> and proceed with your bootable USB , I do not see the problem . What I did when installing the SSD was to put it in an enclosure , connect it via USB and use <URL> to clone the OS and some other stuff to the SSD , while leaving the big data ( movies , music , etc. ) on the HDD ( which I then put in the optical bay ) . If you want to have certain parts of you user data on the HDD , you can create a symlink for that . If you do not insist on a fresh install of OS X this is the way to go in my opinion . EDIT : A word on TRIM : The issue with TRIM on OSX is that it is supported only for SSD installed by Apple themselves . So to enable TRIM on third-party SSDs , one needs the Trim Enabler app which does it for you . All was fine until the release of Yosemite . The Trim Enabler App uses a so-called kernel extension or kext ( I think this is more or less the same thing as a driver , but I 'm not sure ) . With Yosemite , Apple introduced kext signing which means no kernel extensions will be loaded which are not signed ( which can be done only by Apple ) . Now the developer of Trim Enabler has no way to get his extension signed ( Apple would not do that because if they did , no one had to buy SSDs from Apple to get TRIM , a policy which I find appalling ) . The problem is that if you have TRIM enabled with the app and then try to boot a computer with kext signing enabled , it will refuse to boot since the TRIM extension is not signed . That makes it necessary to boot to recovery mode and disable kext signing from a command line . So the only workaround is to disable kext signing altogether . This is a global setting , so it will apply to all possible kernel extensions which means you must be extra careful when installing drivers ( which you probably never do on OS X ) because it ca n't be verified they are trusted by Apple . But since the signing mechanism was only introduced in Yosemite , having it disabled does not put you more at risk than you were on Mavericks or before that . The status of kext signing is saved in NVRAM , which can be reset accidentally ( or manually ) . If reset , it will default to kext signing enabled and thus you will be unable to boot and must take the steps already outlined . Whatever you do , as long as you are able to boot into recovery mode , no permanent damage will arise from enabling TRIM . But if you are not comfortable with the thought of having to go to recovery and type terminal commands , I would just stop worrying about TRIM and not use it , at the expense of some longevity and performance of your SSD . All information on TRIM in conjunction with Yosemite is <URL> . I do not know how this applies to you since you 're on a HDD , but assuming that you have an SSD running with TRIM enabled through Trim Enabler , you should disable it before upgrading . I forgot to do that . What happened was that the installer ran successfully and I even got to the desktop afterwards , only after rebooting did the problem occur ( grey stop sign at boot ) . I had no secondary computer to look up the commands listed in <URL> , but if you do , you can simply boot into recovery mode ( hold CMD-R at boot ) ( either from your backup - which I hope you have - or from the Recovery HD if present , or the internet-based recovery ) , which will then allow you to open a terminal , run the commands , shut down and all will be working as kext signing will be disabled . You can then boot normally and choose to disable TRIM if you are uncomfortable with kext signing disabled ( I see no reason to , since it did not exist before Yosemite ) or just continue to use it .
As far as I know , every emacs under the sun can run in a terminal : Change the path , of course , if your emacs resides elsewhere . If this is too long to type , even with tab completion , you can create a symlink to the executable , or make an alias for your shell . Look to <URL> for a precompiled modern Emacs for OS X.
You can list specifically which audio devices your system is using in Terminal : Another way you can determine if you have the combination audio port is when you 're viewing you will have an output option that shows up on the input tab .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
Print Job scheduling was removed in OS X 10.7 Lion . As a workaround , you can pause the printer , print what you want then continue the printer . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this on the following page : <URL>
You can not view the windows desktop as the " Desktop " in Unity ( As @mankoff said , you can open it as a folder ) . The intention of Unity is to Run Windows apps " side by side " with Mac apps . This means the Mac desktop is the desktop . I remember there was an option to " Show taskbar in unity " in a older version . Unable to find it in version 3 ( did not look for long , anyway I think this is not very useful ) BTW , the way I use VMWare is only for application installs . All my data still stays on my mac ( in a special folder if required ) but not inside the VM . Helps me back them up , email them if required ( even when the VM is suspended ) . So I never felt a need to see the desktop .
I had the same issue on my new Mac , when I checked the history file ~ / . bash_history I discovered that it was owned by root . I run , now when I reopen terminal my history is preserved .
Most likely you have not enabled ssh for all users in the sharing preference pane . Either go add the user you created or tick " Allow access for : All Users "
This is n't exactly what you 're looking for , but it should actually work , which is an advantage . Create a service in Automator . The service takes no input . Two actions . First action : Run AppleScript Here 's the script : Second action : Website Popup Assign it a keystroke and you 're good to go .
You can bring your Apple Watch back to normal functioning mode by pressing and holding the side button , the same way that you do when you wish to power it on . This command will only work if you plugged the Watch in , or if there is sufficient battery juice available .
Booting to Recovery Mode you will find the users ' . plist files in Do n't forget to escape spaces in the name of your main OS X volume with a backslash . Booting to Single User Mode you have to mount your main volume first :
You should be able to turn your script into an application with <URL> - . Look for an option called " Run Shell Script " and once you 're done , it should behave like other apps in that anything that is dragged and dropped on it will be run with it . Good luck !
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
end question
start question
How can I recover when my iPhone is n't responding to touch when using Guided Access on iOS 6 ?
Seems like a solution is to hold home button + volume down + screen lock until device forcibly reboots . After that , guided access began responding properly again and I was able to exit the app . Edit : Through trial and error , I felt this was home button + volume down + screen lock , but as comments have noted , volume down is not necessary .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
You would need to forward TCP port 548 , which is AFP ( Apple Filing Protocol ) . This is the storage protocol used by Time Machine to access content on a Time Capsule . Note : This will not necessarily make it possible for your remote systems to auto detect the Time Capsule - as any DNS information ( Bonjour ) you forward would probably be incorrect as it needs to be translated ( i.e. a different IP-address ) . Connect to the Time Capsule directly using the IP instead . From Finder select Go = > Connect to Server and then enter : afp : / / 123.123.123.123 / Substitute your own IP ofcourse !
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
As a workaround , you could log into the admin section for each AP and look at the active connection list .
Type ( i.e. tilde , period ) at the beginning of a line . In other words , press Enter , then ~ , then . . ( In some languages , you may need to press Shift or Alt to enter the character . ) Generally speaking , the character is an escape character in an SSH session when you type it at the beginning of a line . Type Enter then to see the list of escape commands . The most common ones are to terminate the connection ( press ~ then Ctrl + Z ) to suspend the connection and type a command locally ( run the command to return to the SSH session ) If you want a tilde at the beginning of a line , press ~ twice .
Seems like a solution is to hold home button + volume down + screen lock until device forcibly reboots . After that , guided access began responding properly again and I was able to exit the app . Edit : Through trial and error , I felt this was home button + volume down + screen lock , but as comments have noted , volume down is not necessary .
This is a feature introduced with the <URL> . Accessibility improvements : Option to light LED flash on incoming calls and alerts for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 Custom vibration patterns for incoming calls on iPhone New interface for using iOS with mobility-impairment input devices Option to speak a selection of text Custom element labeling for VoiceOver You can change the setting in Settings - > General - > Accessibility options :
As of iOS 5 , this problem is even simpler . Many views will scroll overflowing information , but you can also simply tap and hold on many sources of text in order to view them in a significantly smaller font size in a back pop-up tooltip , which greatly expands the amount of text that can be fit in the width of the iPhone 's screen size . Note that my previous answer still applies ( below ) , but this tooltip is usually quite a bit faster and much more direct . For all iOS versions before iOS 5 : My answer on the <URL> Question covers this as well . You can use Cover Flow view ( rotate your device to Landscape while in the iPod/Music app after selecting a song ) in order to greatly increase the amount of room used to display song information . Your title is particularly large , I do n't know what the landscape/Cover Flow view limit is . I do n't have any songs that exceed it yet :) .
It is very likely that the iTunes store in your country ( Brazil after your profile ) does not have all the apps from the US AppStore . Developers can choose if they want to make their app available in all or just some countries . Since the website of Apple shows the content of the US AppStore by default it might have led you to believe that you can buy the app with your account .
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
That would be difficult for the conditions described . Looking for most portable solution , I think this <URL> might do the job . <URL>
I assume since it was a month ago that you had iOS 6 on there ? If someone found it and wiped it from scratch , your Find My iPhone will not work . In iOS7 , <URL> could prevent them from re-activating your phone if they found it , and you might have a chance to find something .
It 's looking like a bug . On the phone , if I have a contact that already has a first and last name entered , there is still an option to add a further first and last name field . If I add and fill in the fields , then view the contact in iCloud.com when it has synced , it shows the phonetic first and last names as already in use , with the details I entered . If I remove the additional fields , and then try to add them back using the phonetic first and last names fields which are available on the website version , then sync back they sync to the additional first/last name fields as originally shown . So , in short it looks like they forgot to include the word " phonetic " on iOS5 running on ( at least ) iPhone 4 , the fields are there , and they sync correctly , they just do not show properly .
I 'd say there are basically three things that impact the file size of a GIF . The number of colors in the GIF -- The more colors there are in a GIF , the higher the file size . The dimensions of the GIF -- Tumblr requires the width to be less than 500px , so at least start there . I think around 450px is a great size . However , do n't forget you can use the crop feature to just highlight the action . The number of frames -- The number of frames you can use is highly dependent on the above two points . The three items above mirror <URL> and you can use the GifBrewery preferences to help reduce the colors by processing it lightly or using dithering algorithms :
In general , you will need to jailbreak ( if that 's even possible on the new iOS ) the device to revert the OS . iOS upgrades ( OTA or via iTunes ) are one way and have been that way ( unable to downgrade ) since the 1.0 . Hopefully someone will see your plea for help once they know if and how a jailbreak will work . In the past you needed to get shsh keys from Apple and there was a limited window after updates to get the old keys . If this is so , time is of the essence for you . I have n't been keeping up on jailbreaking enough to even recommend a wiki or reputable source other than to recommend you search the internet . Of course if someone has n't already asked a how to jailbreak iOS 6 question here , you are free to ask that question as well or edit that into this question .
there 's 2 utilities that could provide that info , one from Intel called MacCPUID ( <URL> ) other called CPU-X ( <URL> ) rather outdated Hope this helps . Karl
iCloud Photo Library 's purpose is to unify the photo libraries across your devices . If you wish your devices to maintain separate libraries , you need to disable iCloud Photo Library .
In the assistive touch menu you 've to select : device - > more - > screenshot .
end question
start question
Why is the iPhone 's default landscape orientation ' upside down ' ?
I was going to chalk it up to the developer just being lazy and selecting the default value and tab-completing when creating their app . However , I tried it out for myself ( create a new iOS app project , edit the file and add the following new row ) : You can see that the first auto complete option for mode is , meaning the developer had to consciously choose the second option for it to be right sided as in your app . This supports stuffe 's conjecture that this is done because most users are right handed . The screenshot above are the options for iPad . The iPhone has the same set , except for the second one , which is absent . AFAIK , Apple does n't advocate the use of a specific orientation as a default . Their <URL> only say the following re : <URL> Launch your app in your supported orientation , regardless of the current device orientation . For example , if your game or media-viewing application runs in landscape only , it 's appropriate to launch your app in landscape , even if the device is currently in portrait . This way , if people start your application in portrait , they know to rotate the device to landscape to view the content . Support both variants of an orientation . For example , if your application runs only in landscape , people should be able to use it whether they 're holding the device with the Home button on the right or on the left . And , if people rotate the device 180 degrees while using your application , it 's best if you can respond by rotating your content 180 degrees . On iPad , strive to satisfy users ' expectations by being able to run in all orientations . The large iPad screen mitigates people 's desire to rotate the device to landscape to " see more . " And , because people do n't pay much attention to the minimal frame of the device or the location of the Home button , they do n't view the device as having a default orientation . This lack of awareness of an app 's default orientation leads people to expect apps to run well in the device orientation they 're currently using . As much as possible , your application should encourage people to interact with iPad from any side by providing a great experience in all orientations . So as you can see , they do n't advocate for any particular orientation and encourage the developer to support all orientations . Also see <URL> . However , <URL> uses an example with code for right-oriented apps ( i.e. , home button on the right ) . So another explanation -- apart from the developer 's own UX inclinations -- is a copy-paste effect :)
They are listed beside each sound . If we look at AirDrop for example , iOS will list : Pulse ( Default ) . All sounds will have this ( Default ) suffix attached to them .
I 'm afraid you can not change the order they appear in , you can only change what fields are shown in the Template Section of the Preferences .
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
I think I psoted the question a little too ealry . Anywyas here is exactly what I was looking for : Settings >> General >> Accessibility >> Guided Acess >> Turn the guided access on and also enable the sleep/wake button . You could put in a password now or later ( when you turn it on using the triple trigger and start guided access it will prompt you for a passcode ) Enjoy !
exFAT is a file system optimized for flash drives , meaning storage devices without moving parts where seek times are constant . It sounds like you 're using it for a mechanical hard drive -- which is what 's causing the poor performance that you 're experiencing . You should reformat the drive to HFS + or FAT32 and only use exFAT for solid-state drives . ref : <URL>
You do n't need any third-party service ; This feature is built right into QuickTime . So just connect your iPhone to you Mac , open QuickTime , click on File > New Movie Recording ( CommandOptionN ) , and it will show your iPhone screen . But in order to record it 's audio too , click the little downward arrow nectar to the record button , and under " Microphone " choose " ( your name ) 's iPhone " ( by the way if it does n't show you your iPhone 's screen make sure to select your iPhone under " Camera " too , though it should be selected by default ) . Then just hit record !
Just get Tinker Tool for free . It will let you change the fonts and font size for Safari in OS X Mavericks .
By my reading , it does n't . Which rule do you think it violates ? Section 11 covers In-App Purchases , which Amazon 's app does n't use , and which are only required for " content , functionality , or services in an App " . Amazon does n't let you buy anything to extend their app . Amazon 's app also does n't allow purchasing ebooks , which is their only product ( AFAICT ) that might be covered by section 11 . They have a note at the bottom of all ebook pages that says " This mobile application does not currently support Kindle downloads , however you may add the item to your Wish List and purchase it using the browser on your device " . Finally , section 20 explicitly prohibits allowing the user to purchase a lottery ticket , which suggests that there is nothing unacceptable about other real-world purchases . Lots of other apps allow them , too , like eBay .
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
You might want to check out this question : <URL> My recommendation , if you want it to be fully automatic , is to use Slate . <URL> is no longer in active development , but it still works and is highly customizable . Put this code in a file in your home directory :
Microphones are hooked up to a pre-amp to boost the signal before recording . The internal microphone on the Mac probably has a built-in pre-amp while the external jack does n't . Typically external mikes are connected to a sound or mixing board before hooking up to a computer .
The fix was to open my install disc using <URL> and extract the icons and put them in the app . I just searched for the app names such as " AddressBook " .
This will do the trick : Go to System Preferences / Keyboard / Keyboard Shortcuts / Applications . Click the + button . Choose All Applications , from the drop-down list . On the menu title field add the exact name of the menu bar item . Pick your keyboard shortcut and click Add . In case you overwrite the default Command + V shortcut , if the application lacks the Paste and Match Style option , paste will work as usual .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
<URL> lets you assign arbitrary tap/swipe/click gestures to arbitrary commands . It supports Lion .
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
Terminal - > Preferences - > Settings Select a color scheme and click
Use <URL> , a free open source app that has a bunch of handy window management shortcuts . While it does n't change the default behavior of the green button , it makes it superfluous for me to do so as I can do everything using keyboard shortcuts without using the mouse . For full screen , press : cmd + option + F It also has a bunch of options for 1/2 screen , 1/3 screen , top half , bottom half , etc. .
The journaled file system practically eliminates the chances that the filesystem itself will be in an inconsistent state after the next reboot . But " consistent " is not the same as " correct " . Before journaling , the filesystem structures themselves could become damaged which could lead to more corruption occurring after the next boot . So journaling limits the damage to whatever files were being written at the time of the crash . If a file was being written at the time of a crash , the odds of its contents being incorrect are about 100 % . Exactly what manner of incorrectness would depend on exactly how it was being written at the time . If data was simply being appended , then the last few blocks will probably be truncated off when the journal is replayed . But if bits of data were being modified throughout the file ( such as in a database store ) , its likely to be in a very inconsistent state . Applications which write files in that way sometimes have their own consistency checks for that purpose . But most files in a typical OS X system get written sequentially . In fact , many programs write a temporary file and do n't move it in to replace the old version until the new version has been committed to disk . This ensures that even a forced shutdown in the middle of writing a file only loses the new version , but preserves the old one . Bottom line : something bad will happen to any data being written at the time of a crash , but how bad depends on the application .
end question
start question
TextEdit removes Byte-Order-Mark ( BOM ) from Unicode/UTF files . How to fix ?
TextEdit → Preferences → Open and Save Set " Plain Text File Encoding " to " Unicode ( UTF-8 ) " for both opening and saving files . If that does n't fix it already , open Terminal.app and enter the following : Then logout and login again . This fixes <URL> that also manifest in QuickLook . To fix it for just a single file rather than for all files ( I do n't see why you would , though ) , just write the extended attribute that TextEdit uses : Hope this helps !
Go to configuration by type in address bar and press enter key then enter scroll in filter box , now you can change all scroll options .
I think you must restore your iPhone from a iOS backup ! But than you will lost your last changes .
I had something similar happen to me once . What I did was to go into the Preferences for RDC , and in the tab , remove the value for the parameter . That did the trick for me .
The format menu has a toggle to switch things for you . Pressing shift + command + T will toggle the document to plain text mode . You can also set the default format in the preference pane for the app .
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
Basically using a single ' > ' operand send the output to a new file . using a double ' >> ' operand makes it append the contents to the end of an existing file ( and also out of interest create it if it does not already exist . If all your files are definitely in a neat alphabetical order , then you could use : or in case the filenames are n't in alphabetical order .
I used security dump-keychain - d login.keychain which showed me passwords in plaintext . But where I expected a password for Skype was what looked like a UUID . I deleted Skype from the keychain , got a reset password link from Skype , launched it and logged in with the new password . dumped the keychain again . There are TWO Skype entries . The first has over 800 characters where the password should be , with a UUID in the middle . Lots of octal escapes , none of which are the ASCII values of the new password . The second has a hexadecimal string of about eighty digits , then in quotes , about 60 characters , most of which are octal escapes . Speculation : the hexadecimal is a decryption or encryption key , the quoted string when converted to bytes and decrypted is the password , and that is a format keychain ca n't handle and/or Skype is encrypting to prevent people from looking up a password in keychain .
For adding functions to iTunes you should look at Doug ; s Applescripts . There is a script to <URL> .
Enable " Remote Login " in the preferences of the target/remote mac . Then use with user being the short name of the remote user . You will be asked for the password of the user on remotehost . If you want to avoid using passwords , you can set up ssh key pairs . See <URL> for details .
You can do this with Markdown.pl and htmldoc ( 1 ) , both of which can be installed with <URL> . The basic flow for making a PDF is : As for your filename-per-page , you coul incorporate echo to add it as an HTML element : And for printing , the lpr ( 1 ) command will send a file to your default printer . Tying this altogether :
RTF table support is quite limited in TextEdit . If the column you want to get rid of is not the last column in the table ( in which case <URL> is your best option ) you can try the procedure below : Let 's say you want to delete column " c " below : Hold down Option to mark the contents of the column ( note that the cursor changes shape to a cross ) : Now you can either : Press Delete to delete its contents : Position the cursor in every empty cell and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) : until you have deleted all of them : or : Press Merge in Format > Table ... : Select the contents of the column and delete them by pressing Delete : Place the cursor in the empty column and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) to delete it . I wish it were more straightforward , but unfortunately it is n't .
Whenever there is a change in account status , it blocks all subsequent Apple ID authentication from completing successfully until you resolve the issue . I 've seen this happen with : Security Questions / Answers when this rolled out a few months back . Credit Card / Billing issues . Purchases from a device previously unused by your account . Only after resolving the particular issue will you be allowed to continue .
You can disable Gatekeeper in System Preferences : This removes the warnings about opening files downloaded from the internet : It does n't affect the dialogs about <URL> though . You can run Finder as root with , but it 's not really meant to be done permanently .
You can use <URL> : This can be run on an entire folder using find :
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
uncheck ( If you 're in List view or Icon view , click to make it the default ) . Repeat for each view mode as necessary . Hope this helps ...
You are right about iTunes showing great signs of strain . It was designed for a pretty simple task that now overwhelms it with too many functions - it 's very un-Mac like due to how long it has taken Apple to kill it and reinvent all the jobs it does with better tools . Now - transferring purchases was really simple in iOS 7 and earlier . There was no family sharing , there was no app thinning , there was no just in time downloadable resources , iBooks was n't a separate app that can complicate things . I 'll try to explain how to make use of the tools , but you will probably spend some time trying things out and changing your workflow to accommodate the tradeoffs that were made in designing iOS and iTunes . Each class of data has a " sync source " so you could for instance , sync iBooks from Mac A , Apps from PC B and songs from Mac C . You are right that iTunes is designed to wipe old content from a previous sync source before switching to a new source . You can usually transfer or back things up , accept the wipe and then proceed , but I 've seen cases where you literally have to go get things again in this case . Especially when you do n't sync with multiple computers and instead software bug resulted in the system thinking the same iTunes was a different iTunes . You can get around this a little with a good backup - but pay attention to iCloud settings since if you skip backing up some things , you still have to re-download them .
TexShop should ship with a Spotlight importer that does the job . If not , you can try this homemade solution : <URL>
My specific situation was that initially I tried a backup version that was too late to contain the app required . Once I switched to an earlier backup , the app was there and successfully restored with all its data .
end question
start question
How can I " clean out " my Time Machine backups if Time Machine wo n't backup because the disk is full ?
Enter TimeMachine , then in the main window , select the backup you want to delete ( on the right ) , then use the Action Menu ( Gear icon ) to select " Delete Backup " . Using this menu , you can also , when a file or a folder is selected , delete all its backup .
You can make an efficient copy of the Time Machine volume by using Disk Utility and making a disk image of the original volume . Store that image on the temporary storage / other drive as a single file . Once you 've erased the original drive and partitioned it as you wish , then use Disk Utility to reverse the operation and restore the image to the new partition . That will erase anything on the new partition so do the restore first then add extra files as needed . Time Machine will pick up and use the new destination and carry on with backups and cleanup operations assuming no corruption happens during the two copy events . I would just get a cheap drive and do the first step . Once I 've verified that the backup img file mounts and I can restore a sample file to my desktop from Time Machine , I 'd just erase the intended drive and start over with backups . Much easier that way and why spend the second half of the work - just archive that Time Machine data offline in case you need it down the road .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
You could try <URL> : it will give you the size of each backup , the backed-up files and catalog the backups with colors to quickly identify the big ones . There are also lists of files excluded by rule or that you add manually to exclusions : <URL>
In a nutshell : No , you ca n't . A backup is not a synchronisation solution so there is always a 1:1 relationship between your main drive ( s ) and your backup . You can use Time Machine to backup multiple computers to the same network drive , but the backups will always end up as separate bundles . To transfer applications/data from one Mac to another once , have a look at Migration Assistant ( ) . To share data with ongoing updates from several machines , consider defining remote access/folder sharing on a master drive or look into .
I have n't tested this on 10.8.4 , but here 's how I used to work around this . Make a second account that exists only for you to be able to log out completely of your main account . Log into the second account only . Start a backup so that the legacy file vault files can be backed up . Basically , Time Machine does n't run unless someone is logged in .
I 'm pretty sure you ca n't , and you would n't want to . The OS only bypasses the bundle for locally attached backup destinations . Direct attached storage ( DAS ) uses the HFS + filesystem and / Backups.backupsdb folder structure Network attached storage ( NAS ) uses the sparse bundle format to embed a HFS + filesystem on whatever filesystem that the NAS uses natively . Time Machine 's backup format plays some very interesting tricks with the Mac OS Extended filesystem that are n't really possible over a generic network storage volume . It 's also optimized to minimize network traffic when files change . This speeds both backup , browsing and restore operations and minimizes the volume of data file changes on the NAS for small changes on the source disk . In order to get TM to work over a network connection , it stores a disk image ( in sparse bundle format ) on the network server , and mounts that locally on the client . Since it 's mounted locally , the client has full access to the filesystem and can play all of the necessary tricks . So , without the . sparsebundle , you would n't be able to back up over the network since it optimizes the amount of data sent to the Time Capsule when a file changes as well as reduces the load on the Time Capsule to handle easier IO to the disk . You can still mount the sparse bundle image on any OS X machine and navigate to files . The only drawback might be if you are using an OS that does n't have a filesystem plug in for sparse bundle storage format .
You can use the tool to delete backups one by one . If you are sure you have selected the correct name , you can delete all backups from that one Mac by not passing in the time and letting it delete the entire folder : The sudo command needs your password ( and it wo n't echo to the screen , so just type it and pause to be sure you 're dating the correct files before pressing enter ) .
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
As time goes by , you make various edits to a given file , and Time Machine will make progressive backups of that file . Backups continue so long as there is available storage space upon the hard drive . When hard drive space runs out , older file backups are discarded . To perform a restore , one can perform a full system restore , which returns the entirety of your Mac file system contents to the latest files and structure that had been backed up . Alternatively , you can browse through the progressive backups using a Finder-like interface , and choose specific files or folders to restore . For more in-depth descriptions , it is worthwhile to read Pondini 's <URL> .
If it 's your first backup in Lion , you need to leave the computer awake and connected to the Time Machine volume and let it do its thing , perhaps overnight . Once it makes an initial backup it has to construct an elaborate index database so that the Time Machine restore functions can work correctly . If you interrupt or cancel the process , it will have to start over from the beginning again at some other time , and this will indeed take up time and system resources . I have heard complaints from others that the initial backup , verifying , indexing , etc. takes a great deal of time in Lion , but you need to allot the time necessary to let the system do its thing in order that it work correctly .
This answer explains things for a Windows-based server , but it should work fine for Ubuntu . In Terminal , type the following command : Now , as long as you have a connection to your computer 's shared drive , you should be able to see it in Time Machine . To connect to that shared drive : Finder > Go > Connect to Server . Type in the IP address or host name of the server . You may be prompted to log in . Configure Time Machine to use the drive , and try creating a backup . Time Machine will try to create a " sparse bundle " on the drive , and will fail . Open Console and check . You will see the name of the file Time Machine was trying to create . The name of the file will be something like You will need to create a sparse bundle with this name and put it on the hard drive manually before the backups will work . To do this , open Disk Utility . Click New Image > Set image format as " sparse bundle disk image " > Set partition map to " no partition map " > Set the size as the maximum size you are willing to allot to Time Machine . Do n't modify anything else . Though the file on the hard drive will need to begin with a period , you will not be able to do this right away through Disk Utility , so just call it whatever you want right now . You can rename the file so that it has a period before its name from Terminal on OS X or Ubuntu . Your final name should be like . If everything is done right , you should now be able to use Time Machine with an Ubuntu Server . Note : This answer was copied from <URL> and has been formatted for AskDifferent . I 've used this method myself , albeit on a Windows shared drive .
For hourly backups Timemachine does indeed only keep the " first " backup of the day . This is a " Daily " backup . Backups are automatically deleted after a backup is performed and the storage of old backups is set according to <URL> schedule . Daily backups are deleted after a month except for the first of each week which is a " weekly " backup . Weekly backups are deleted as space is required , then one or more of the oldest " Weeklies " will be deleted .
You can confirm this by booting from the Recovery Partition on the disk and choosing to restore from a backup ( without proceeding with the restore ) . Here are the steps : Connect the external hard disk with the encrypted backup Boot ( or reboot ) the system and during startup hold the Option key so that it shows you the list of available volumes to boot from Select the Recovery HD from the disk to boot from it Choose Restore From Time Machine Backup from the list of actions Select the encrypted volume from the list Enter the Fila Vault 2 password when prompted Wait for it to show the list of available backups from the volume Restart the system now that you have verified the availability of the backup
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
I did some searching and found <URL> ( the caveat being that this applies to 10.5 ) : Using the Restore feature in Disk Utility , you can " restore " the Time Machine disk to another disk and retain the history of changes . This could be useful if you 've outgrown your Time Machine backup drive , and want to migrate your existing backups to a new , larger drive . You should turn Time Machine off before doing starting this process , of course . Be aware that the disks will have the same name and information , so it might confuse Time Machine . For example , after I activated Time Machine on the newly-created disk , I plugged in the old disk , and it showed up as a Time Machine drive , but the backup failed . It 's probably best to avoid having both of them plugged in . At the very least , rename one of them . Perhaps more importantly , Carbon Copy Cloner 2.3 does n't work correctly for cloning a Time Machine drive ( I do n't know about 3 . x ) , as it does n't copy hard links but rather , copies what the links point to . This results in a lot of copies of your system when the Time Machine database has been around for a while . The common suggestion from that thread is for CCC is to a block-to-block copy of the old disk to the new disk .
Yes that is exactly one of the reasons it 's great to have a Time Machine backup . With the new Mac , if you want to restore the data from the Time Machine backup , ensure it is connected to the new Mac . Then power on the new Mac and follow the setup instructions . When you get to the question asking if you want to migrate data you would choose the option to do so from a Time Machine backup . Choose the Time Machine drive ( shows up as a green icon ) and then click next . Choose what data you want to restore and then click next again . For clarification and further information have a look at , <URL> and <URL> .
end question
start question
Do I need to know someone 's Apple ID email address to gift them an app ?
I believe the email sent contains a link with a promo code , it 's not bound to the email address . So you can send it to whatever , they 'll still be able to get the app gifted .
I just discovered that this is possible in Mac OS X 10.7 Lion ... and after testing further I discovered it 's possible in Mac OS X 10.6.8 also . I 'm not sure if this works in earlier versions , but here are the steps to make this happen : For the sender : Create a new Group in Address Book either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Click on All Contacts to view all your contacts . Find the contacts you want to add to the list and drag and drop them from the list of contacts on the right to the new list you created on the left . Once you have added all the contacts to your new group you need to send the list to your friend . You can create a new email message and drag the name of the group from the list in Address Book and drop it on a the email message to send the list . Or , you can select the group and use the File > Export > Export vCard ... menu item to export the list , and attach the resulting file to an email . For the recipient : The key to making this work is to create a new group first and then dropping the vCard on that group . Create a new group in the OS X Address book , just like in step # 1 for the sender , using either using the File > New Group menu item , or by clicking the button on the Groups panel : Drag and drop the vCard file sent to you on the new group which you created . Make sure the new list " lights up " as shown below : You will be asked if you want to import the new cards . ** If you are told there are duplicates , click " Review Duplicates " . If you are not told there are duplicates , click " Import " and skip the next step . If you have duplicates to review , Select the " Keep Both " option , and then click " Apply to All " ( if that option appears ) . This will create duplicates in your address book , meaning your original contacts will not be altered and you can delete your friend 's copies later if you want to . The new group you created will be an easy way to find the new duplicates should you want to delete them later . You now have a copy of your friends list added to your address book , without altering any of your cards . You can compose emails to this entire group ( remember to use BCC ! ) if you want . If you want to delete the list ( and the duplicates ) later , you can select the group on the left and press the delete key on your keyboard . You are then presented with the option to delete the actual cards as well as the group , which will remove any duplicates you might have created in the previous step :
Simply delete the app from your machine . The store prevents two copies of the same app from being installed as a general case You should then be able to re-buy it as it would be a fresh download - signed for the account you prefer rather than a re-download of the app signed for the old Apple ID .
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
I 'm not sure what you mean . You need to be more specific . If it 's that the Mac is tied to an Apple ID , no : only the current installation and user accounts are . Yes , you 'll need one to download the installer unless you get it some other way ( someone else downloads it , you use internet recovery , etc. ) Sort of . <URL> , you can only do so if you have a Time Machine backup of relevant files from before your upgrade . You 'd be able to move most changes back over once you finished the downgrade , but I do n't know of any easy way to restore an older version directly from the current one without losing data .
You can call AppleCare as suggested and merge all your purchases from the old Apple Id to the new Apple Id . <URL> Sorry , but this is not possible at this time via our online tools . You can speak with an AppleCare representative , who can help you consolidate your registered Apple products . They can also help register your iPods , iPhones , or Mac computers under a single Apple ID . Other links that could offer some insight : <URL> <URL> <URL>
This small application runs in the background and shows the current IP dddress of your Mac in the menu bar . There are options available to customize the appearance of the menu entry . The IP dddress is updated regulary . Switch on the Router option if you are behind a router or gateway . You can still see your local IP address in the menu . <URL> Do you need your computers IP address often ? If so , IPMenulet is likely the quickest way to have the number handy all the time , it 's a free and simple menu item that displays your current external IP address in the Mac OS X menu bar , there 's no other frills or features . You can download IPMenulet now ( direct . dmg download -- link changed visit dev site instead ) or visit the developers website here for more information and to view the simple tools source code . <URL> And the associated Google Search : <URL>
Yes , it is true . MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) , MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) , MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) , Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) , iMac ( Late 2009 ) , Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later models supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort . There should n't be any dependencies for it to work other than an HDMI cable to use from your HDTV to your adapter . If you plan on purchasing a third party adapter make sure you confirm that it does both audio and video . <URL> <URL>
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
You can not . Apple has retired the ability to get a new @me . com email address , just like they did for the @mac . com email addresses back in 2008 . Existing accounts are grandfathered in , but you are unfortunately out of luck .
At least under iOS 5 you should be able to see a blue circle with a white arrow inside next to your text message ; tapping on this will bring up a list of links ( if there are more than one in your message ) , including the e-Mail address . Tapping on the e-Mail address will bring up the default " Info " page , from which you could create a new contact . More importantly , on that " Info " page you ´ re now able to tap-and-hold on the e-Mail address at the top , which will bring up the " Copy " - Bubble .
So ... unfortunately the answer is ... Yes , but there are ways around it ... All the apps you bought in country A are permanently assigned to your AppleID . Once you move to country B and you updated your details ( billing address ) you : still can use them you can not re-download them you can not update them you can not convert your music to iTunes Plus ( but still can listen , obviously ) There are two solutions to this : Switch Store 's country and update your billing details each time you want to get your apps up to date ( or re-download them ) . But this is a rather painful process , so a better solution is to ... Create a new AppleID with the billing details for the country B. Switching between AppleIDs is much easier and quicker than switching Store 's country and updating your billing address . Let me quote why it has to be this way : [ ... ] this how iTunes has been designed . So . It 's gon na be problematic , but nothing can be done really . :(
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
Yes , the receiving company will need an <URL> and <URL> . Part of the process of enrolling involves agreeing to Apple 's terms of service and other legally binding agreements . Without agreeing to Apple 's agreements , the receiving company will not be able to participate in Apple 's App Store or Mac App Store . It is possible to have applications associated with your Apple Developer ID but not participate in the App Stores . However , those applications will not be eligible for sale through Apple .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
There 's no registration for OS X , and nothing in the code to detect and prevent you running more than two VMs . It 's purely a legal restriction . If you 've deleted the VM , then you 're fine .
This might help : <URL> When you boot up on a fresh install you can run the OS X migration process to restore from Time Machine . Unlike Windows you should be fine just restarting from the system disk though . All the necessary drivers are built in . If your new disk has stuff on it , you can boot from it and run Migration Assistant from Utilities to copy your user directory from Time Machine . Also , you should clarify , are you adding an SSD ( e.g. into the optical slot ) or are you replacing the existing drive ? If you 're replacing it you 'll need a way to copy the data , i.e. from Time Machine .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
Gifting only works from iTunes on a computer . Perhaps it could be added if enough people ask to spend money that way . <URL> You can also gift from store apps with iOS 6 .
end question
start question
How to make a test user without a credit card ?
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
Yes you can , using the following code . Note that the UniqueID , if less than 501 , may not list the user in the Accounts pane of system preferences , depending upon the OS version . Be careful that it is not already assigned to another user account . You can assign a home folder outside of the normal / Users / hierarchy with : If you want a clearer name to show up in the accounts preference : If you su to the new user without having set a NFSHomeDirectory , the $ HOME defaults to .
Addressing your query head on - several US carriers have very nice planning tools : <URL> <URL> Both are quite close to what I 'm seeing for my usage patterns ( one calculates 2.5 GB and the other 3.15 GB ) in practice . I would say to take these with a grain of salt since with iOS 7 - you now have exceptionally good information on exactly which app used exactly how much data . That coupled with automatic data alerts that you can configure from the carrier to alert you at whatever levels you want , you can easily shut off parts of cellular data ( or all cellular data ) to shape your usage without having to downgrade your cellular service . In effect , iOS 7 makes it easy to steer your usage to fit your budget if and when you find yourself using more data than planned . Also , in the US - you are not locked into any level of data as the service is month to month . I often have months where I tether 2 or 4 GB extra data for business reasons . I have a shared data plan between my phone and iPad so a quick online session upgrades that month to the next higher tier of data . I set an alarm to undo that change at the end of my bill cycle and there are no fees to increase and decrease - just fees for the data ( and overage should you go there for a month ) . For me , the extra $ 10 for a month is far less than the overage of $ 15 per GB and simpler for me to manage when bursts or overages happen ( I 'm looking at you iTunes match streaming all night on an iPad while in my bag with the smart cover closed : /
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
The best way to do this is to create a chroot jail for the user . I 'll clean up the answer here when I get home but I posted the solution on my blog . <URL> Below are most of the instruction from the above post . First , you should create the new user in Workgroup Admin and either assign them access privileges for SSH via Server Admin or assign them to a group that has SSH access privileges . Further discussion is below . From the Terminal , start off right . Every additional new user added will then be something along the lines of the following . Every folder it the path to the chroot jail must be owned by . I do n't think it matters what group the folder is in . What I did above was to backup change ownership of the root directory to change permissions of the root directory to 755 create a chroot folder create a user folder inside the chroot folder create a folder inside the user folder that user can modify set ownership and permissions Now to edit to the following . This creates a chroot jail that when the user logs in will drop them into the folder , in that folder is a folder they can add things to . If you want to create a Group in Workgroup Admin for ' Chroot Users ' then add the new users that you created in Workgroup Admin to the Group you wo n't have to keep editing the file . Instead of the above , add the following . Make sure you add the ' Chroot Users ' group to the SSH access ACL in Server Admin . To test whether the above is working , issue the following from the terminal .
You can use VNC to remotely control your Mac . There 's instructions around here to turn on the built-in OS X VNC server ( it 's pretty straightforward ) , and a <URL> ( I linked to a Google search because I do n't know a particular good viewer for Windows because I do n't use VNC on Windows ) .
You can change the text editing bindings for Cocoa apps with DefaultKeyBinding.dict . This will work for almost all applications where the ⌘ command + ← left and ⌘ command + → right worked before . ( The only way it would n't work is if the application creator reimplemented those shortcuts from scratch , which is doubtful as it would be much easier to just use the versions that come free with a textfield . ) If the directory does not exist , create it . Create the file in that directory with contents like this : The refers to the Command key , is Option , is Left , and is Right . The selectors on the right-hand side are the same ones used in the default file , , but switched around to match what you said in your question . Restart an application for the changes to take effect in it . <URL> .
I have a workaround : What we have been doing is we have our family account under my sister 's credit card . However , the individual members of my family buy Apple Gift cards . This is credited only to the individual family member 's account . I usually buy mine at the grocery store , but you can buy them online as well . A little bulky but it works .
Boot to Recovery HD or internet recovery since the Disk Management Framework is n't loaded in single user mode : If you run into more problems - and and their repair variants might help to get at the underlying error condition on your volume .
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
If your mac shipped with Lion , you should be able to run the hardware test by simply holding D when your computer boots . If your mac did not ship with lion , you will need the original install disks to boot into the hardware test mode . <URL>
My presumption is that when you burned the DVD using iMovie - it was encoded within a VIDEO_TS folder and you will need some software to move the video and sound files ( which are hidden and obscured on the filesystem ) back into a format that can be played on your Mac and/or burned back to a fresh optical drive . Depending on the version of software that wrote the DVD to disc , you might be able to locate the raw video files ( or find them on a backup ) . Barring that , using Disk Utility to simply clone the volume onto a new drive is n't a good choice , but I 've had great luck with programs like the little app factory 's <URL> .
You have two options . 1 . On-the-road compatible , but not so user-friendy Create a new playlist on the iOS device ( iPod Touch is one , of course ) . Then , add the songs one by one from memory . They will be kept in sort order , and the playlist will be synced to iTunes for future use . 2 . Much easier , but with listening limitations Sync with iTunes . Select the Library source on the left panel . Sort the tracks by " last played " , by clicking on the title of the " Last played " column . If this column is not visible , right-click on any column 's title and check the corresponding item ( or hit ⌘ J and check it ) . Find the set of songs you liked and select it . Create a new playlist from this selection ( ⌘ ⇧ N ) . Reverse the sort order of the newly created playlist by clicking on the ( empty ) title of the column that contains the play index ( numbers at the extreme left of a song 's title ) . The only problem with this solution is that if you listen to one of the songs that were in your set , it will have its Last played field updated , and wo n't be in the proper place ... So this solution is usable only if you can sync pretty quickly after listening to the set , or can remember a few songs ' positions , or if you avoid listening to them altogether before the next sync .
There is a feature that 's currently experimental called HiDPI that may do what you want . Like the retina displays on the iPhone and iPad , HiDPI mode creates a " logical " resolution that 's half the current resolution on your display but uses all the physical pixels to keep the image sharp . This results in all the user interface elements appearing much larger , but with no lack in clarity . For example , if you 're outputting to a 1080p TV with a resolution of 1920x1080 , the HiDPI resolution would be 960x540 , and all the elements on the screen would be the same size as if you were outputting that physical resolution . To enable HiDPI mode in Mac OS X Lion : Download the " Graphics Tools for Xcode " download from Apple . This download requires you to enter an Apple ID , which you most likely have and can get for free . Mount the DMG Open the " Quartz Debug " app In the menu bar , select " Window " , then " UI Resolution " <URL> Check " Enable HiDPI display modes " You 'll be prompted to log out and log back in . If multiple accounts are logged in , they must all log out for the change to work . Once you log back in , go to System Preferences , then Displays . You will see the new HiDPI modes there . <URL> For your 1080p TV , select " 960x540 ( HiDPI ) " P.S. . If you 're curious what HiDPI mode looks like , the screenshots I 've taken are both in HiDPI . Click on them to see them full sized .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Have you looked at <URL> ( nVidia only ) or <URL> to do just this ? Both technologies are made to leverage the GPU .
You can <URL> , but I 'd suggest leaving them separate since you 'd potentially have incompatible preference , cache , and other " Library " files between the two versions of OS X. Perhaps symlink the corresponding preferences for the apps that you want to share data . iTunes Library is easily shared , just hold the Option key when launching iTunes the first time to specify the library to open ( it will remember it subsequently ) . Since Office 2011 wants to use the Microsoft User Data folder within ~ / Documents , you 'll likely have to symlink this folder from one of the profiles .
end question
start question
Why will Xcode not update ?
As a workaround , you can download it directly from <URL> if you have a ( free or paid ) account . Update : At one time the included link above would take one directly to Downloads for Apple Developers after signing in , however as time goes by things change . So once logged into your Developer account add downloads to the address in the address bar so it shows as <URL> and then press enter . You should then be at the Downloads for Apple Developers section as shown in the cropped clip below . <URL>
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
You can still download Xcode 3.x for free with a free developer account . Xcode 3 comes with the GCC 4.2 , LLVM-GCC 1.5 and LLVM 1.5 so everything you need to compile C++ , C and ObjC code . ( Remark : LLVM 1.5 ca n't compile C++ code , so you have to switch back to LLVM-GCC or GCC for this . )
This is a widely-reported bug in some App Store installers . It sees the process and displays this error , even though that process is not controlled by the user . You can open Activity Monitor ( in / Applications/Utilities ) , find the process and kill it with the Quit Process button in the top-left corner . You can also instead open Terminal ( also in / Applications/Utilities ) , enter the following line and press enter to kill it .
If you look in your headphones jack , is there a red light on ? If yes , then you have Digital Out on , and this messes with the speaker configuration . There is a thread <URL> , which has some possible fixes . Update There is switch inside the jack that is stuck . Plug the speaker jack in and out several times while watching the Sound-output system preference panel . The internal speaker option will come on if the switch is unstuck . Taking a toothpick and fiddling around inside the jack has solved the problem for some , you should try this . ( Do n't break the toothpick inside :) ) From : <URL> The problem is actually caused by a little switch inside the jack that gets stuck . When you stick in an audio cable , it pushes the switch down . If it 's an analog cable , the end is made of metal . If it 's optical , the end is made of plastic . If the switch is pressed down , the computer checks to see if the plug inside is metal or plastic based on conductivity . When it gets stuck and nothing is in there , it thinks an optical cable is plugged in since the switch is down but nothing conductive is in there . That 's why it works with headphones or external analog speakers .
I do believe that you are attempting to add Free apps to your wishlist . When you try this you do not get the open to add to your wishlist , just as you never could gift a free app . Try again on a paid app and you should see the options Add to Wish List and Gift appear before Copy Link .
It can be found in an easy to read format using the system information app : System Information.app > Software > Installations System information can be found in or via Spotlight .
Sometimes things go wonky in the preferences files and you need to delete them to get things working properly again . Once you restart the app , it will rebuild it 's preferences . Try this : Quit Terminal completely and then delete this file : ( your home folder ) / Library/Preferences/com . apple.Terminal.plist Hopefully that works for you ! If you ca n't see your library folder , follow this <URL> .
These are what you need to keep in mind : The battery works using chemical reactions , these reactions can not be stopped but they can be slowed . A laptop with the battery left in will continue using that battery very slowly . A battery left completely dead inside a laptop that is still trying to draw power will kill the battery completely . If you are storing the MacBook for a few months , take better care where you store it . Place it in a case , or completely dry bag to prevent dust buildup . Even if you keep it in the box it has come with , it would be fine . Taking the above care , you do n't have to worry about the battery . Apple 's <URL> page offers the following advice : If you want to store your device long term , two key factors will affect the overall health of your battery : the environmental temperature and the percentage of charge on the battery when it 's powered down for storage . Therefore , we recommend the following : Do not fully charge or fully discharge your device 's battery -- charge it to around 50 % . If you store a device when its battery is fully discharged , the battery could fall into a deep discharge state , which renders it incapable of holding a charge . Conversely , if you store it fully charged for an extended period of time , the battery may lose some capacity , leading to shorter battery life . Power down the device to avoid additional battery use . Place your device in a cool , moisture-free environment that 's less than 90 ° F ( 32 ° C ) . If you plan to store your device for longer than six months , charge it to 50 % every six months . Depending on how long you store your device , it may be in a low-battery state when you remove it from long-term storage . After it 's removed from storage , it may require 20 minutes of charging with the original adapter before you can use it .
If they are stored locally instead of on iCloud they will not sync . If you can place them in iCloud they will sync correctly . Uncheck all accounts to find the wrongly placed contacts , happy hunting ! ( :
This could get very technical but the answer is actually relatively straightforward . The act of " ripping " takes place in 2 stages , reading the source material , and writing out a converted version of same . For music this is straightforward , mainly because the technology is old enough to predate stuff that was later incorporated into DVDs . Music CDs do not have any form of encryption . The data is laid bare for you to use as you see fit . This means anyone can read it without requiring the use of a licensed decoder which you can them laden with prohibitions on use . Once you can read it , you can convert it , so long as you have a suitable encoder , which Apple provides to allow encoding into the formats you list . For a movie , this is different . The source material is encrypted and copy protected in a way that Music CDs never were , and never will be . This means you need a licensed decoder just to be able to read them . The terms of the license will often dictate that you can only decode for playback , and not for conversion . Most often this is purely a legal distinction , and not a technical one . Obviously Apple have to abide by the terms of these licenses or they could not provide you with them , and as such they will not allow you to subsequently decode a film , then instead of watching it immediately encode ( rip ) it into a different format . They do provide an encoding mechanism for movies , but it will only work on unencrypted and decoded files . Of course , there is nothing to stop other programs that Apple do not supply from ignoring such paper restrictions ( or providing replacement decoders that are less inhibited in what they allow ) , and happily ripping away .
I do n't have a Snow Leopard install handy but this info is available in System Profiler ... Apple Menu > About > More Info In the resulting app there should be a way to view the installed applications . In that list there will be a column " Kind " that will state " Intel " , " Universal " or " PPC " . Screen shot of how this looks in Mountain Lion : ( may look different in Snow Leopard , but idea is the same . )
You could try inspecting the output of to see if any of the names look like the package that claims to be installed , then to see where it was installed . If it 's not actually found there , you could try and see if the App Store will let you re-download ; but at that point I 'd probably contact App Store support first , as mucking with the package database might cause bigger problems ( like , conceivably , forgetting that you ever bought the program -- although I would hope Apple 's programmers were smarter than that ) .
As bogdansrc mentioned , Gatekeeper only applies to application bundles that have a extended attribute . Some applications ( like μTorrent ) do n't add them to the files they download , and some unarchiving programs ( like ) do n't add them to files after extracting archives . You can list extended attributes with . Gatekeeper is also disabled if you have disabled with for example .
If you 're thinking about using Xcode 4 and Lion as a " stable " coding environment , do n't do it now . Lion has a lot of bugs already " enjoyable " and quite possibly a lot more to be found in the following weeks . You 'll have to reinstall your OS/Xcode quite often when new releases become available . It 's nice to try things ( " new " AppKit stuff ) and investigate if certain things work in Lion or how will they react to new tech like " Versions " , Full screen , apps being resizable from any corner , etc. . All these new things will require new code and current devs will certainly want to add these capabilities . That 's what this is all about . Other OS X betas in the past were certainly stable ( especially after a couple of releases ) but I ca n't recall a " first " one being barely usable beyond experimentation . Launchbar is buggy as hell at the moment .
Xcode will usually do this if this style of window is the last to be closed . If this is the case the your window looks like this : Then it can be fixed simply by doing the following : And finally select what side bars you want to be visible :
My experience is largely with either my old 17 " MacBook Pro ( 1920 x 1200 , 17 " ) and 23 " external monitors that run at 1920 x 1080 . First off , the extra 10 % of vertical space makes a huge difference . Secondly , I have found 1920 x 1200 to be fine , and it should be possible to get a screen at that resolution for your budget . Thirdly , if you can get a 1920 x 1200 screen at 27 " for $ 250 , that sounds like a bit of a bargain . 23 " is a fine size , and 1920 x 1080 is acceptable , with 1920 x 1200 preferred . You do n't want 30 " at 1920 , but 27 " should be OK .
To get a free C/C + + compiler you have to download Xcode . It includes two C compilers ; clang ( the compiler Apple currently supports ) and an old version of gcc . ( Note current versions of Xcode > = 5 I think only have clang ) Make sure you install the command line tools if you want to use the compilers from outside Xcode . ( These command line tools also seem to be available from Apple 's <URL> if you register but I would get them via Xcode unless you have a very good reason and understand the difference ) . All other compilers I know of use one of these two compilers and their binary tools to set themselves up . ( e.g. package management systems like macports , fink and homebrew need these command line tools to run parts of their infrastructure as well as to compiler their ports - however these package managers include ports of other c compilers e.g. newer versions of gcc . ) IDEs like Eclipse use these command line compilers to do the building of programs . There are some commercial compilers like <URL> but I do not know if these require Xcode or are C compilers .
In versions of Xcode prior to Xcode 6 , you can connect the device to your computer over USB , open Xcode → Organizer and select Use for Development . Use for Development was removed from Xcode in Xcode 6 and later . It is no longer possible to do this for devices using Xcode 6 or later , even with the Devices page ( ⇧ ⌘ 2 ) .
If you have the 4.0 beta , you are able to download the 4.1 GM from developer.apple.com and use Xcode 's Organizer or iTunes ( by holding the option key when clicking restore ) to choose the correct version of iOS ( which is on the disk image you downloaded ) to reload onto the iPod .
end question
start question
How to delete all photos from the iOS 7 camera roll WITHOUT importing them ?
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
Go into the conversation on your iOS device ( assuming iOS10 ) . In the top right corner you should see an information symbol ( " i " in a circle ) . Click on it . Then scroll down to the picture you want to delete . Then tap and hold the picture . Three options will come up : copy , delete , more . Select delete . If you 're using an iPhone 6s or newer , be careful not to force touch the image instead of tapping and holding .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
Go to Settings ; Tap on > > , then swipe across and tap the delete button that appeared . That should delete all your local music .
This can be done if you disable auto sync in device settings , and automatic sync manager . For that however you need to sync the new ones by selecting and dragging to ip * d to sync . That way the ones that got deleted wo n't be deleted from the device but only from the computer .
File > Export > Export Unmodified Original ... will export a full size image to the folder of your choice .
While in Edit mode , hold down the Control and M keys . This will show you the original version of your photo , with no edits applied . If you want to temporarily undo the effect of the color adjustments but keep the cropping and rotation the same , hold down M by itself . Unlike Aperture : It does n't work in " view mode " ; you have to be in edit mode . ( To get into edit mode via the keyboard , press Return . ) It 's a hold , not a toggle , so you only see the original photo for as long as you have the keys held down .
From the Podcasts view ( left tab ) , press the Edit button at the top left ( you may need to scroll up to see it ) . Each podcast will have an ( x ) button in its top left corner . Hit that button ( it 's small and can be tricky , but it works ) to remove the podcast . Use the Done button at the top left when you 're finished editing .
If you do n't need a internet connection during the lesson a simple solution would be to just switch into airplane mode or to disable the Wi-Fi .
Nope . In the stock keyboard provided by the API , a " Forward Delete " ( as opposed to a Backward Delete/Backspace ) , none of the keys , nor combination therein , provide a Delete keystroke to occur . Your only option , as you now see , is to use an external keyboard to accomplish this . Any other options would just be something else entirely . Like selecting a word , and deleting it , or using replace , etc. .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
The Photos Timeline view is sorted by the date embedded in the photo , not by date added . All other views are also sorted by the date of the photo except the All Photos album , which is date added . You ca n't change the sort view of any of the application created albums . The last import view shows only the last import , and does not include photos from PhotoStream . Work around : you can create a smart album and it gives a variety of ways to sort the photos in the new smart album ( date range , title , keyword , etc )
Open the Settings app . Tap on General . Tap on International . Tap on Keyboard . Tap on Add New Keyboard . Tap on Emoji . To switch to it on the keyboard , tap the globe icon between and the microphone icon . I 'd say that 's easier than downloading a third-party anything on Android . Plus it was included already 2 years ago with iOS 5 .
This should work with iOS 7 and above . Go to the Settings app and tap the Cellular icon at the bottom of the screen . Anything beyond that , you will have to check your phone bill . <URL>
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
In iOS 7 : Double tap the home button Scroll to the app you want to force quit Flick up on the app 's window .
Yes , the receiving company will need an <URL> and <URL> . Part of the process of enrolling involves agreeing to Apple 's terms of service and other legally binding agreements . Without agreeing to Apple 's agreements , the receiving company will not be able to participate in Apple 's App Store or Mac App Store . It is possible to have applications associated with your Apple Developer ID but not participate in the App Stores . However , those applications will not be eligible for sale through Apple .
end question
start question
Can a wired ( ethernet ) Mac act as a WiFi access point ?
Yes , you can do that . When Ethernet is connected , go to Sharing System Preference Pane . You can share the Internet there by selecting Ethernet as a source .
I just read <URL> Yes the LED is hardwired But it can still be bypassed Only downside of <URL> , it was only tested on " old " ( late PPC , early Intel ) macs .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
Seems that 8.0.2 's update for iOS fixed the problem for me .
vilmoskörte 's <URL> appears to be a good one , but I took it upon myself to make a tool that does this for my own education . I put it on GitHub . <URL> A simple command line tool . No options , just runs and outputs Lat/Long , accuracy in meters , and a timestamp . It will need OS X Location Services to be turned on ( System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy ) , and permission to gather your location ( OS X will prompt you on first run ) . <URL>
I imagine this is the case : iPhone and iPad are using an integrated chipset ( like this : <URL> ) supporting both Wifi and Bluetooth . And as both of them are on the same chip the manufacturer could be just incrementing the MACs . However the question is why you ask this - if you want to use this information to check if it 's the same device : do n't , as there is no guarantee that it will always be this way .
If you have saved it previously , open ( located in or via Spotlight ) and search for the wifi network name . If you have found it , check the lowest checkbox to reveal the password . You need your login password to do so .
Sure - all macs support network boot . You might look at Deploy Studio for help in setting up a server that can network boot images stored on the remote machine . Borrowing a USB drive or another mac in target mode with a working DVD might be faster - but with a little set up - network booting is very doable .
Since there are a lot of causes - let 's try to narrow down some things . If you are on Snow Leopard - you can get some more detail on the MacBook to know if there is interference or if there is potentially a hardware error . Hold the option ( or alt ) key and press the WiFi icon in the menu ( you 'll have to add it if it 's not in the menu for this testing . ) All the mac cares about is transmit rate - it 's the best number to tell how much data your mac thinks it can send reliably to the router . The higher the rate , the better . A high transmit rate is all that matters - even if the signal is weak , you still have a good connection if you have a solid transmit rate . Next is RSSI - it 's less intuitive . I tell people think of sunlight into the ocean . If you are -20 feet below the surface it 's really light . RSSI of -100 is really dark / really faint signal . In ideal environment - no noise , good antennas on both mac and router and good amplifiers reading the singals - you can still operate at -100 , but any interference or extra distance , you could stop getting a signal . Different macs have different RSSI - so if you have a close match in hardware you can be sure the problem is the mac by comparing with another . If not , it 's more guesswork . Your iPhone WiFi antenna is likely 10 times as big as the Mac 's antenna so it 's looking more like a signal issue than anything else . I hope this helps you decide what next steps to take to find the cause . You can change the router , change the physical location or change the hardware . If a repair shop is close , maybe try a diagnosis there . If not , you 'll have to take the mac to other locations with that router and try changing the things you can control . It 's not likely software since moving the mac closer to the router does n't change the software , but you might check for updates if some new firmware does better with interference or error handling . It 's a long shot so I list it last . EDIT - I am home and can report some transmit rates . On my older equipment , transmit rates of 24 to 54 are seen on an old linksys 802.11 b router . My MacBook Pro gets transmit rates of 200 to 300 pretty much all around the house . Even when I have one bar in the menu bar for airport signal strength , these transmit rates stay high as the RSSI goes to -90 ( which is getting far away from the base station )
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
1 . If you have iCloud Keychain enabled : Are my existing saved passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts included in iCloud Keychain ? Yes . When you turn on iCloud Keychain , any previously-saved website usernames and passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts are automatically included in iCloud Keychain . From : <URL> You can access to Keychain by the Keychain Access.app ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) . 2 . Otherwise you can use 1Password . 3 . Finally , you have this post : <URL> Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems .
An iPad does n't offer the same capabilities as a Wacom graphics tablet . At best -- Eazel excepted -- you 'll only be able to control the cursor on the mac or pc . There are many of those types of programs for the iPad in iTunes from the free touch mouse ( iPhone only ) to iTeleport ( iPad , US$ 25 ) . Graphics tablets are n't that expensive , especially compared to an iPad . The cheapest Wacom tablet in the USA goes for $ 200 or so . Ask someone you know to give you one for your birthday or appropriate holiday . If you know enough people , you might even be able to find one for free . I gave away my old Wacom Graphire last year when I bought a new Intuos . Ebay shows used Graphires for a variety of prices ; make sure used tablets include the pen and mouse . I also have made video tutorials using a graphics tablet and Photoshop . I have not settled on which video capture software to use . There are too many for me recommend one .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
Well , there is always <URL> but back when I learned my way around the Terminal , I found <URL> quite entertaining and educational ( given it suits your humour ) . If you ´ d rather go for a book , I ´ d highly recommend <URL> .
I am basing my answer what your requirements are Web Development . Developing websites or web apps that typically run off a server ; typically Apache/PHP/MySQL Access the server remotely to edit/develop I belive this is much more than just screen sharing as you do n't want to share your screen , just the website you are developing for a client . You will need the following : Web service listening on the appropriate port Open/forwarded port on your router Dynamic DNS ( DDNS ) with the ability to update your record Web service listening on the appropriate port Typically , when doing Web Dev , this is Apache listening on the correct IP/Port . Assuming that you have just one network adapter , you have to make sure that Apache ( or whatever else you are running ) is listening so that other computers on your LAN can access it . If you can do this , then you are good to go for the next step Open and/or forward the port on your router So , you can get to your service from inside your network , but now it 's time to get to it from the outside . Determine your local IP . Using terminal , issue the command . The line should start off with . That 's your local IP address Forward HTTP traffic to that port . There are many routers on the market and each have different user interfaces , but they are all technically doing the same thing : taking traffic bound to your IP and port and forwarding it to an address you specify . You will have to check your user manual for the specifics on how to do this . But , basically , you are going to forward port 80 traffic ( HTTP ) to the IP address you found in step 1 . Next , you are going to want to test this out . Use a service like <URL> or <URL> to find your public IP . You can even type the search directly into <URL> and have it return your IP address . Once you have that , you need to browse to it . A smartphone NOT connected to your WiFi makes a good choice . Point the browser of the smartphone to the public IP address you just obtained . If you can see your page/application , your router is working . If not , you need to go back and make sure your port forwarding is set up correctly . Setup DDNS This is the final step . <URL> allows you to use a domain name to access your IP even though it changes . Many newer routers support DDNS in their firmware - you will need to check with your specific manufacturer and or model . Even if your router dose n't support DDNS , you are still in luck . All you need is a DDNS client to update your record and it can run on any computer on your network . For example , on <URL> , they provide a number of different clients you can on virtually every platform from Windows , to Linux and even iOS . So , what you will need to do is install one of these clients on your Mac server so that it can periodiocally update your DDNS record
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
The best way to get TV hooked up to a Mac is through a TV Tuner . The best TV Tuners for Mac are by far the EyeTV <URL> . The TV tuner could also be used to hook up to your Wii , however that is a bit impractical . Instead consider buying an adapter from RCA to <URL> to use your iMac as a Monitor for the Wii .
I believe that you 'll need to download Darwiin Remote form here : <URL> . This software will allow communication between the Wii Remote and your computer . I have n't played with this for a long time , but I believe that when I did this app allows the Wii Remote to act as your mouse and provide direct interaction with the system ( I used a candle to provide the required infrared source for tracking ) .
It 's a feature kept on iOS so that you can quickly turn off both Wifi and Bluetooth .
end question
start question
How do I deauthorize all computers on iTunes ?
From <URL> Apple Support article you can do it from your account . If you find you have reached 5 authorizations , you can reset your authorization count by clicking Deauthorize All in the Account Information screen . The process works as follows Click iTunes Store in the menu on the left side of iTunes . If you 're not signed in to the store , click the Account button , then enter your account name and password . Click the Account button again ( your ID appears on the button ) , enter your password , and then click View Account . In the Account Information window , click Deauthorize All . Also note the following : You may only use this feature once per year . The Deauthorize All button will not appear if you have fewer than 5 authorized computers , or if you have used this option within the last 12 months . If you need assistance on using this feature please contact iTunes Store support via email .
Use this AppleScript to copy the current stream title to the clipboard : To install it as iTunes script , copy &amp; paste the above into the AppleScript Editor and save it under in your home folder , giving it a sensible name , such as . Create the folder if it does n't exist . This will make iTunes grow a little script icon in it 's menu bar where you can select the script .
Right Option ( Alt ) v s You must have U.S. Extended keyboard layout enabled for the above to work .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
This answer is in two parts . If you 're after all the preference files associated with iTunes then the list is relatively short . If you want every file that iTunes accesses then the list is going to be vastly and incredibly long and also very difficult to track down . If you can offer some more context of what reason you 're trying to track these down maybe I can help you isolate files related to your needs . All of iTunes preference files : File ( Primary ) : Located at : Files : | | Located at : Hidden File : Located at : All of the settings you set/change in the iTunes application are represented in the two primary preference files . The one in the ByHost folder above and the other main one called above . Hope that helps .
Taken from <URL> support article : OS X Recovery includes a built in set of utilities as part of the Recovery System . To start your computer from Recovery , restart your Mac and hold down the Command key and the R key ( Command-R ) . Press and hold these keys until the Apple logo appears . The recovery feature is limited to OS X Lion , Mountain Lion , Mavericks , Yosemite , and El Capitan .
In a Terminal , use the following command : This will output the fully qualified pathnames of files in which the metadata stores used by Spotlight classify it as some type of movie . Example output from a movie taken on my iPhone and transferred to iPhotos on my Mac , one of the lines outputted by <URL> is : " QuickTime movie " , which have a extension was just one of extension types that showed as " $ some_type_of movie " . So you will probably see other file extensions as well .
It seems to be possible to <URL> , but through your iPhone or iPad it appears not to be possible . You can read more on <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> parental controls at the included links and in <URL> . I hope that this information helps , and let me know if you have any further questions .
Yes - stacking gift cards is not an issue . You will just carry a larger balance and less risk of losing the cash . You lose the flexibility to redeem them on another account .
I think in OS X you should use for " cron jobs " . But otherwise your task should be easy to do with a cronjob This should run everyday at 23:55 Update You should specify the output location of WGET with
This morning , I updated to iOS 8.3 and the Activity app now appears on the last page of the home screen . So I would try to either update to iOS 8.3 or restart the phone if you 're having this problem .
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
You can do this with a Smart Playlist . Click File - > New Smart Playlist Configure the rule so it reads " Media Kind is Podcast " Make sure the " Limit to " box is unchecked , and that the " Live updating " box is Click OK Once this is done you will have a playlist with all your podcasts . To sort by date , right click the column bar at the top and check " Release Date " . Click on the Release Date column to sort your podcasts by date . The only downside to this view is that this view does not provide the blue dot that indicates whether or not a podcast has been listened to . You can , however , add the " Plays " column and use that instead , as podcasts that have not been listened to will have a play count of " 0 " . You can also have the smart playlist automatically remove played podcasts from the list by editing it and adding the rule " Plays is 0 " .
To import audio files into Garageband for iOS , connect your iOS device to your computer . Then do the following : On your computer : Open iTunes Click your device in the left-hand column Click " Apps " in the bar at the top of the right-hand pane Under " File Sharing " select " Garageband " in the " Apps " column Click " Add ... " in the bottom-right of the " GarageBand Documents " area In the dialog that opens up , select the file ( s ) you want to transfer over Once you 've selected the file ( s ) , it transfers over to your iOS device . On your iOS device : Open GarageBand If you 're not already , switch to the multi-track view by tapping the button In the upper right-hand area , you should see a loop icon with the number of newly transferred files on top of it , like this : Tap this icon . It brings up a screen like this : Just like the screen says , you can tap and hold and drag the desired audio files into your track listings . They each appear as Audio Recorder tracks : That 's it ! There is one caveat : GarageBand for iOS is limited to a maximum of 320 " bars " for the length of a project , and it does not appear that it 's possible to bypass this . If you need to edit audio that 's longer than that , you will need to use another app .
Have her go to Settings.app > Store - if your account is signed in , sign out . She can then sign in to her own account . Any apps you 've downloaded using that account will still prompt for that account 's password when they need updating , though .
Two approaches : First , take a look at Doug 's AppleScripts for iTunes - dougscripts.com . He has a ton of useful scripts , including Super Remove Dead Tracks , which you might be able to modify to just list them if you want . Or , if all you want to do is create a playlist of songs which have no native file , there is a very simple way to do that ( which I found repeated by so many people that I do n't know who to attribute it to ) : Create a regular playlist , not a smart playlist . For this example , call the playlist " Alive " . Select all tracks in your main library and drag them into " Alive " . Note that " dead " tracks with no native file will not appear in this playlist . Create a smart playlist defined as : Playlist -- Is Not -- Alive . Call this playlist " Dead " . You now have a list of " ! " songs which are missing their native files . You could then go ahead and delete the dead ones if you wish . Deleting is not allowed from a smart playlist . So , select all songs from the new " Dead " playlist by clicking Ctrl A. Then , right click and choose to add a new playlist . Now you will have all of your songs in a non-smart playlist . Select them all by clicking Ctrl A. Using delete removes them from the playlist and not your library , so you will need to use Shift Del. .
Use a Smart Playlist . These are playlists that are dynamic and can be built off filters on track metadata . To create a new Smart Playlist select ( or Opt-Cmd-N ) and then set the following options to build a Smart Playlist that always contains all the tracks that are from 1969 in your library : If you wanted to limit it to a specific genre from 1696 press the + button to add another filter criteria and pick a genre like so : You can filter in all kinds of ways -- Smart Playlists are incredibly powerful .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
end question
start question
How can I make Time Machine do a full backup ?
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
If you are using an entire drive for time machine backup , I would suggest using <URL> latest version with block-to-block copy . I have seen people use Disk Utility for this but I have n't got this to work .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
In a nutshell : No , you ca n't . A backup is not a synchronisation solution so there is always a 1:1 relationship between your main drive ( s ) and your backup . You can use Time Machine to backup multiple computers to the same network drive , but the backups will always end up as separate bundles . To transfer applications/data from one Mac to another once , have a look at Migration Assistant ( ) . To share data with ongoing updates from several machines , consider defining remote access/folder sharing on a master drive or look into .
Since I 'm running Lion , and TimeMachine uses a different file transfer ( AFP ) , I ended up setting up a FreeNAS box , and hooking a cheap WD HDD to it . If I was n't running Lion , I could have simply shared the WD HDD from my Windows 7 machine . The AFP protocol adds a bit of complexity .
<URL> details a way to do this . Basically you 'll create ( or modify ) the file and add a line similar to : The actual UUID will vary , you can find the UUID for your disk in : In Mac OS X Panther , Disk Utility and the diskutil command does n't display the UUID value . But if you look in the system.log file , when the disk is mounted , you can see something similar to this ( line breaks added for narrower display ) : FireWire HD / Volumes/FireWire HD ... localhost diskarbitrationd [ 87 ] : disk1s10 hfs F0E430C1-5558-3BB3-9FA9-6904B663FEEA Mac OS X Disc / Volumes/Mac OS X Disc The string before the volume name is the UUID for the disk .
Turns out that the problem was that the disk was n't empty . Formatting the disk and starting again solved the problem .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
It turns out the external harddrive was a lemon . I tried with a new external hard drive and it worked fine . . initial backup finished in 2 hours and time machines seems to be working fine now .
Seems that many people have difficulty restoring from a backup of a case-sensitive installation to a case-insensitive one . Please see comments for some discussion and various ideas . A work-around which seemed to be successful in this case : copy the data you need manually from the backups , using the Finder . ( I would n't expect to be able to recreate the entire machine with all settings etc this way , but documents should be easy to restore this way , and perhaps even your entire home directory . )
You may exclude items from a Time Machine backup as follows : Open System Preferences . Click Time Machine . After having enabled Time Machine and chosen a backup disk , click Options . Click + to specify an item that is not to be backed up . The backup disk is included on this list automatically so that it does not back up itself .
As time goes by , you make various edits to a given file , and Time Machine will make progressive backups of that file . Backups continue so long as there is available storage space upon the hard drive . When hard drive space runs out , older file backups are discarded . To perform a restore , one can perform a full system restore , which returns the entirety of your Mac file system contents to the latest files and structure that had been backed up . Alternatively , you can browse through the progressive backups using a Finder-like interface , and choose specific files or folders to restore . For more in-depth descriptions , it is worthwhile to read Pondini 's <URL> .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Your preferred setup is not possible : OS X ca n't share an NTFS disk with Windows for backup because Time Machine needs HFS + ( from <URL> ) : Manually preparing a new disk for Time Machine ( ... ) If you want to partition the disk , click the Partition tab and select a layout . Make sure " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " is selected in the Format menu for the partition that will be used for backups . Click Apply . Luckily , you do n't need two separate drives . Using <URL> you can trick your computer into thinking it is connected to more than one drive , although there 's only one . In this case , two partitions will suffice , one HFS + and one NTFS . ( Why only one NTFS partition although you back up 3 Windows computers ? Because Windows stores backups in folders named after the computer name so there are no conflicts whatsoever ( see this <URL> ) . You can use one NTFS partition to store backups of multiple Windows computers . ) I 'd recommend that you create the HFS + partition on your Mac first , then , on your Windows computer , format the other partition to NTFS : Plug your drive into your Mac . Open Disk Utility ( in Applications/Utilities ) . Select the drive and select the Partition tab . Create two partitions . Format the first partition as HFS + ( and give it a name like " Time Machine " ) . Leave the other partition as " Free Space " . See <URL> for more details . Eject the drive and plug it into your Windows computer . Format the second partition as NTFS . When you 're done , plug the drive again into every Mac/Windows computer and select the corresponding partition as backup drive ( see <URL> for OS X and <URL> for Windows ) . To prevent the NTFS partition from being mounted every time you connect the drive into your Mac add this entry to ( as explained <URL> ) : Replace with the NTFS partition name . This setup works like a charm . I have a very similar configuration : My external 1 TB drive , which I use for backing up my Mac and my wife 's Windows PC , has two partitions called " Time Machine " and " BACKUP_WINDOWS " :
You can not directly restore to another account from Time Machine , but you can rename the user after the restore . After the fresh installation of OS X , restore the data and then do the user rename . Follow the process outlined in <URL> to rename your user " a " to user " b " .
Select " Preferences ... " from the Menu " Terminal " go into " Settings " and select your default window configuration , go into the tab " Keyboard " Have a look at all keybindings , ( eg . forward delete is bound to \ 033 [ 3 ~ ) and note you can change them by double clicking ( thats easier to use than bind in your ) . If you choose to use & #x 2325 ; as meta-key , & #x 2325 ; + backspace will work immediately , though this setup might break special characters you can only input by pressing & #x 2325 ; together with them ( depending on your keyboard layout ) . If you don ´ t use that , you can delete by pressing esc and than backspace . For forward-deleting a whole word , use either & #x 2325 ; + D or esc and than D.
There 's a nice looking piece of freeware worth trying called <URL> which looks like it 'll do the trick .
<URL> is newly-announced software that lets you do TimeMachine backups to " cloud storage " . Their docs say the space is their own cloud-based storage space , not S3 , so that might be sticking point . But other than that it 's pretty much in line with what you 're after . In addition to doing the TimeMachine - > cloud bridge , they also help you duplicate your data to a local drive so you can do fast restores without having to wait for delivery of an cloud - > hard drive dump of your data . Looks promising . I 'm lukewarm on the pricing .
I did some searching and found <URL> ( the caveat being that this applies to 10.5 ) : Using the Restore feature in Disk Utility , you can " restore " the Time Machine disk to another disk and retain the history of changes . This could be useful if you 've outgrown your Time Machine backup drive , and want to migrate your existing backups to a new , larger drive . You should turn Time Machine off before doing starting this process , of course . Be aware that the disks will have the same name and information , so it might confuse Time Machine . For example , after I activated Time Machine on the newly-created disk , I plugged in the old disk , and it showed up as a Time Machine drive , but the backup failed . It 's probably best to avoid having both of them plugged in . At the very least , rename one of them . Perhaps more importantly , Carbon Copy Cloner 2.3 does n't work correctly for cloning a Time Machine drive ( I do n't know about 3 . x ) , as it does n't copy hard links but rather , copies what the links point to . This results in a lot of copies of your system when the Time Machine database has been around for a while . The common suggestion from that thread is for CCC is to a block-to-block copy of the old disk to the new disk .
end question
start question
Can you restrict Command + Tilde ( CMD + ~ ) in El Capitan to switch between only windows on the same desktop ?
I think this behavior is fixed in the new update 10.11.1 . I tried it on both explorer and chrome on the same desktop and it switches to the other windows as expected .
Ha ! Found it ! then map CMD to CTRL :
I do n't think you can do this in Safari on the iPhone but you could use a 3rd party browser app . Many of those will let you set the browser agent . One browser I know does this is ' Atomic Web Browser ' . This may not work in all cases as some websites may use other ways of determining which content to show , for example , some will detect the screen dimensions . I 've tried this on my iPhone with Atomic Web Browser . Within the browser , I went to settings , ' Identify browser as ' and selected ' Safari Desktop ' . Then I went to nascar.com and tapped on the nascar logo . It showed me the desktop version of the page . I checked in mobile safari and doing the same indeed took me to a mobile version .
You may need two approaches : one to switch the version for the applet plug-in alone another approach to switch the version for other parts of the JRE without switching the version for the applet plug-in . My <URL> : Java 8 for apps that do not use the plug-in Java 7 Update 9 for the applet plug-in . To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 quit web browsers and any other apps that use Java or the Java applet plug-in install JDK 8 set aside the plug-in install JRE 7 Update 9 or JDK 7 Update 09 . Setting aside : suggested move If you plan to switch frequently , you may prefer a different temporary location . Result At the same time : To switch the applet plug-in but not other parts of the JRE/JDK from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Answers under : <URL> To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 8 to Java 7 Update 9 Install JDK 7 Update 09 then JDK 8 the OS and apps will default to use the greatest version . Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 7 Update 9 . To switch the JRE but not the applet plug-in from Java 7 Update 9 to Java 6 Update 37 Quit any apps that use Java . No need to quit the browser . Set aside the ... directory from the OS and apps will use Java 6 Update 37 . Example Generally For users of OS X , some of what 's provided by Oracle is initially misleading : <URL> ... and so on . Simplicity Whilst none of the above is as simple as switching with the Java Preferences app previously installed by Apple , the relatively simple approach of setting aside ( no need for special uninstallation ) is reminiscent of the wish for drag-and-drop installation ... <URL> in the <URL> area . Someone might like to build an app , but I should not recommend using symlinks -- it would work , but could be inconsistent with future drag-and-drop approaches to installation . Side notes At the time of writing , the most recent <URL> are ( for platforms other than OS X ) Java 6 Update 37 and ( for platforms including OS X ) Java 7 Update 9 . As greater releases will be made available , please reinterpret this answer accordingly . Java version terminology in this answer is in line with <URL> terminology .
While it may not work in all applications there is a way of doing this for a large number . Certainly it works in , and but not Microsoft Word , where you have to do it within the application . All you need to do is open > > and select in the left hand pane . Click on in the right hand pane and the at the bottom . In the field enter then click in the field and press command-V . Then click on You will now see that your shortcut is added . When you open , for example , you will see that no longer has a shortcut ( you could add one using the same method ) and right next to in the menu is your new working shortcut,command-V . Oh , frabjous joy !
Mac OS 9 has no built-in support for Windows file sharing . There were third-party file sharing applications for Mac OS to allow access to Windows networks , and there were also Windows server tools which could allow Mac access to Windows servers . One tool I remember using was DAVE , from Thursby software . It used to be a Windows networking kit for Mac , but has morphed into something else now . If you found an older version it might work , but I doubt it would be compatible with the latest Windows . I 'd recommend looking for an FTP server for your Windows machine and a FTP client for your Mac .
As far as I know , there is n't a limit . As long as the account is associated with the device , then any apps from that account can be put onto that device . If you own more than one device , you do n't have to purchase the app again . You could own one hundred iOS devices and pay for just one app .
The Thunderbolt monitor includes a number of integrated peripherals as well as being a monitor : Three powered USB 2.0 ports FireWire 800 port Gigabit Ethernet port Thunderbolt port The actual connector for MiniDisplayPort and Thunderbolt is the same , but Thunderbolt can pass many protocols over the same cable , not just A/V signals .
System Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard > Show Keyboard , Emoji &amp; Symbol viewers in menu bar . <URL>
I just discovered that it can be done by switching to the adjacent workspace using Ctrl + Left ( or Right ) arrow . Update : After I restarted the OS ( or maybe created a new user , sorry not sure ) I noticed that when I switch to new profiles they are now created under the same app group so I can do again Cmd + tilde . Update 2 : I just discovered that the green maximize icon now in Yosemite will now full screen the app . The shortcut to maximize the length and width of the app window can be found in this question <URL> ⌥ + ⇧ + Click on green or outer right icon ( plus icon )
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
Xcode does support tabs . You can add a new one by pressing Command ⌘ + T , or go to View > Show Tab Bar to keep the bar open always so you can press the + button there . With multiple tabs , you can use Command ⌘ + { and Command ⌘ + } to cycle through them . As mentioned by bassplayer7 in the comments , you can also use multiple windows and cycle through them with Command ⌘ + ` ( backtick ) or Command ⌘ + ~ ( tilde ) . Additionally , you can have multiple documents open in one window using Assistant editors . Either use Navigate > Open in Assistant Editor , or click the icon which looks like a shirt and bow tie in your toolbar to bring the editor up . Then , you can use the little + in the upper-right corner of the editor to add more . The Navigate menu has several other useful options too , such as going through an editor 's history , various counterparts to a file ( headers , implementations , interfaces , ... ) , and switching focus between various portions of the window . As for the navigator , use groups to combine related files for easier access . Use File > New > Group or File > New > Group From Selection to add a group and rearrange things however you want . You can completely remove the original groups created in the original project if you want , since they are just for navigation and have no affect on the actual project .
The secure delete option was removed from El Capitan , but as explained in <URL> , there may be some alternatives you may wish to use ( see below for notes if the Mac has an SSD ) . You can use the disk utility to overwrite the free space on the drive ; Where ; In this command , change LEVEL to a number of 0 through 4 , where 0 is a single-pass of zeros , 1 is a single-pass of random numbers , 2 is a 7-pass erase , 3 is a 35-pass erase , and 4 is a 3-pass erase ( note all non single-pass options may take a while to complete ) . You can consult the man page for more detail on the command usage . Overwrite the contents before the deletion ( from the terminal ) ; Where is to recurse over the folders and will overwrite their contents . The utility provides a mechanism ( from at least Yosemite ) to overwrite and remove files , <URL> ; The indicates verbose mode . Consider using the " Delete Immediately " option that was added to El Capitan . Whilst this may not be the " secure delete " you are looking for , it does skip the trash . It is important to bear in mind that with modern SSD wear levelling , writing to the same location in a file is n't necessarily going to write to the same location on the disk , hence the secure deletion would not always achieve what you wanted ( see <URL> and hence <URL> ) . Given an SSD , the " erase " - ing of the free space is probably the best option , once the files have been deleted and removed from the trash . For those with mechanical disks ( non-SSD ) , the option may be the easiest alternative .
This is one of the preferences that Server can manage using the managed preferences ( sometimes referred to as MCX on older servers and now called profiles on Lion and later for servers ) . Here is a short Apple document covering the high points on how to use managed preferences and the workgroup manager . This would be a good , safe item to test with in getting started with WorkGroup Manager and a couple of lightly used Macs . <URL>
⌘ Command + ` will cycle between windows of the current application when using i.a. US keyboard .
That would be difficult for the conditions described . Looking for most portable solution , I think this <URL> might do the job . <URL>
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Apple Watch bands fit the watch based on its size , either 38MM or 42MM , and are interchangeable between both series , however at the present time Apple only sells the Apple Watch , either series , with a band . There is no SKU available in the computer to order without a band . This information is current as of this moment having just contacted Apple sales directly , at the local Apple Store , seeking to purchase an Apple Watch without a band .
Indeed , this appears to no longer be possible without 3rd-party software . Adding the same preference key to the new app seemed to not make any difference - it appears that this ability has been removed from the app . As you mentioned , KeyRemap4Macbook would work with the private.xml that you linked to .
Options provided by OSX Using your mouse , click and hold the window you want to move to another Space . a ) While still holding your mouse button down , use your Spaces keyboard shortcut to move to the desired Space . ( default : ctrl + & #x 2190 ; / & #x 2192 ;) b ) Drag the window to the edge of the screen . Wait a second or two and the window will be dragged into the next space . You can change the delay before the OS switches spaces using ... ( here 2 seconds ) Third-party solutions <URL> ( unlimited free trial available ) Your question has been asked before on <URL> .
end question
start question
How to safely charge your apple device at a charging station ?
I know of no device that is sold to act as a write block that also allow full 1A charging , but <URL> might help you if you wanted a DIY hardware solution for the older 30 pin USB connectors . In the mean time , you have several ways to secure the data without needing a custom piece of hardware . Lock your iOS device with a passcode before connecting it . <URL> . You could go a step further and be ready to power off the device as soon as it 's connected - shortening the window for the OS to be available to the charging station . The devices will still charge and should n't wake up unless it detects a disconnect/reconnect of the USB cord . Be careful to not establish trust with unknown chargers and computers by tapping when prompted by iOS 7 . Furthermore , if you upgrade to iOS 7 , anytime you connect to a computer which could potentially read your data , you are alerted to this fact rather than having the device share all data because it 's not locked with a passcode . This <URL> prevents any access to your device 's storage without a positive user step to allow that access . The device wo n't talk data to the " charging station " until the passcode is entered on the touchscreen . ( Or the astronomically unlikely but theoretically possible chance that the charging station provides the one and only unique to you secure certificate generated and stored on your primary iTunes computer . ) The charging station ca n't try entering passwords one by one - so it 's not like you are at more risk by charging an hour versus 2 minutes .
It is not possible to remotely control the screen of an iPad unless you jailbreak and install a VNC server as MattDMo suggested . This is because the security model in iOS does not allow an app to reach outside of its sandbox to control other apps or the springboard home screen . Apple does not provide any remote control functionality at the iOS level either . There is no way to do what you are asking for without jailbreaking . Mobile Device Management ( MDM ) solutions do not allow remote control of the screen on iOS either . MDM can push configuration profiles to control settings on an iPad , or prompt the user to install an app from the app store , but they ca n't control the screen . Airwatch offers a screen control option , but this only works on platforms that support it ( not iOS ) . I work with several MDM vendors , including Airwatch , and this is not possible because Apple does not make this functionality available in iOS .
Unfortunately , no . That 's a flaw of the iPhone that is designed to help you , in case you ever forget your passcode .
You can use <URL> or contact Apple Support for the iTunes store to register that opinion / information about their music service .
When I travel , I only bring my iPad charger and use it interchangeably with my iPhone 4 without noticing any battery life performance and by that extension it should be the same for iPhone 4s . Apple 's <URL> seems to confirm this ; For the 10W USB iPad charger - " It also charges iPhone and all iPod models with a dock connector . "
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
Yes , The answer is positive . The power bank capable to charge a laptop needs to supply not only the USB standard charging port but also ( or only ) a DC output port , or a build-in power inverter with an AC outlet . Here i collect some power bank that can charge laptop : 1 . Anker ® Astro Pro2 Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 20000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 12V 16V 19V for iPad Air , Mini , iPhone , Samsung Galaxy , Note , HP , Dell , Acer , Asus , Toshiba Netbooks 2 . RAVPower ® Xtreme 3-Port Portable External Battery Charger with Multi-Voltage 23000mAh Multi-Voltage 9V/12V/16V / 19V/20V -- for Apple Macbook , UltraBook , Digital Cameras , Surface Tablets , Asus Tablets and more 3 . Poweradd ™ Pilot Pro Monster Capacity Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 32000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 9V 12V 16V 19V 20V for Tablet PC , Netbooks , Notebooks , Laptops , Smart Phones 4 . BiXPower 153 Wh ( 42500mAh ) Super High Capacity 12V &amp; 19V External Rechargeable Battery Pack -- BiXPower BP160 Made with high quality Panasonic Li-ion battery cells . Compact size can easily fit into a laptop/notebook carry bag 5 . Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones 6.Qi-Infinity ™ Powergrid External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 34200mAh For Laptops , Notebooks , Netbooks , Tablets and Smart Phones 7 . Lizone ® Extra Pro Super Capacity Portable External Battery Charger 40000mAh For Apple Books , HP , IBM Lenovo , Tablets , Smartphones and more 8 . Intocircuit ® Power Castle PC26000 External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 26000mAh 12 Connectors for Laptops , 10 Connectors for Phones and Tablets , AC Adapter Included There are power banks available with various plug in connectors for laptops , but they cost around 15,000 . I have seen one on ebay india , and the ad says that they 've even sold 29 units . These are not marketed by laptop manufacturers so I am not sure what your laptop warranty status will be if you purchase one of these banks and use it charge your laptop . Most laptops charges through its adapter only . Powerbanks on the other hand have only usb 2 output interface . Replacing laptop batteries with Extra cell batteries available in the market can help . One desi jugaad is using a UPS to charge a lappy but it wont make it handy and portable .
It 's hard to tell with this new product , that is really a normal battery charger . Rechargeable batteries should charge all the way to 100 % especially when they are new . If you 're not getting a full charge , try depleting them all and fully charge them , see if that works . Otherwise , batteries may be defective or it could be a mouse/software misinterpretation .
that should work fine . Do your full backup Go into General - > reset - > reset all content and settings This COMPLETELY wipes the IOS device so your friend will set it up as if it were new . When you get it back ask him to do the same thing first , in case they set a password . Sometimes if you have a PIN set you have to enter that to wipe it . But your scenario should work fine
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
Under the app in the list , there should be a description of which types of notification an app can send . Look through the list for apps that say ' Alerts ' or ' Sounds ' and disable the ' Alert Tone ' or ' Sounds ' respectively .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
Search for in Lion or later ( or in Snow Leopard and earlier versions of Mac OS ) in Spotlight ( press ⌘ and Space ) . The program is in / Applications/Utilities and is the tool to see the connected USB devices and other hardware details . It is quite simliar to on Windows . Alternatively you can access it via the Apple Menu - > - > - > The System Information can save system profiler information to a file , so you could review an older snapshot to see what was connected once , but the Mac OS does n't record all the devices connected - just the ones actually connected when you run the tool and it scans the current items on the device tree .
The answer is YES . You can use the higher power Charger on lower power laptops . The battery will only take as much as it can handle . It is a pull not push process . Extra info : If you were to use lower power charger on high power laptop , you could end up newer charging the battery fully , or it could take extended time to charge .
If you look at the page for the <URL> ( click " Tech Specs " ) It 's rated for 7 Watts . I do n't where you got the " ~ 7 amps @ < 22V DC on a regular day . " So the sort answer is - That panel wo n't even keep the MacBook Air running at idle , let alone charge the battery . Your post got me curious , so I broke out a Kill-A-Watt power meter . 11 " MacBook Air Power Draw , battery already fully charged , measured at the wall : Idle , screen backlight completely off : ~ 4.7 W Idle , Minimum Screen Brightness : ~ 4.9 W Idle , Half Screen Brightness : ~ 5.4 W Idle , Maximum Screen Brightness : ~ 8.0 W For the active tests , I have the screen set to half-brightness , where I usually use it : Moving the mouse in circles with the trackpad : ~ 6.5 W Scrubbing the Dock ( with magnification ) : ~ 11.2 W HD Video Decoding , GPU accelerated : ~ 15.6 W SD Video Decoding , GPU Accelerated : ~ 11.2 W Flash SD Decoding ( not sure if it 's accelerated ) : ~ 12.7 W Ok , these figures are VERY approximate ( the Kill-A-Watt is not a high precision instrument ) , but they do put things in the ballpark . The theoretical approach - <URL> is the term for the amount of energy that falls on a set area per set time . Basically , we can calculate the amount of solar energy which falls on a specific area . The <URL> wikipedia page gives us a ballpark figure of ~ 1Kw/M ² . Then , you have to take the efficiency of the Photovoltaic Panel into account . <URL> a best-case mono crystalline panel efficiency of ~ 25 % , shich means that only 25 % of the light which falls on the panel is converted to electrical energy , while the rest is dissipated as heat , reflected away , etc. . . Therefore , a 1m ² panel will , at the equator and with a mechanism that points it directly at the sun , manage ~ 250 W. From this , we can tell that a 154W panel would have to be ~ 0.616 m ² ( 154/250 = 0.616 ) , far larger than what you have . Examining the 7W panel you have - How big does a panel have to be to produce 7W ? 7/250 = 0.028 m ² , or 280 cm ² or about 14 * 20 cm , which seems pretty accurate , judging from the pictures on the product page . Anyways , I went of on a bit of a tangent here , because you mentioned you 're an EE , which is one of my main interests .
The short answer is no . Smart mailboxes are basically filters . All mail is still in the original mailbox . Or as Apple puts it : A Smart Mailbox shows in one location messages that are stored in other mailboxes . For example , a Smart Mailbox might show all messages from a specific sender or with a certain type of attachment , regardless of the mailbox where they 're stored . <URL> . You could however create your own sort of smart mailboxes by using rules to move messages around based on certain characteristics . <URL> . Example of rules creating a Today folder : This moves all mail from today to a folder called today . A day later it will move that mail to a folder called archive ( archief in Dutch ) . This should give you an idea how to work with rules and folders .
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Technically it would be possible to trick the MacBook Pro to think another device is actually a different device to what it is ( e.g. that a connected MacBook is in fact an iPhone ) . However , this would not achieve the goal of charging one MacBook from another MacBook . According to Apple : MacBook Pro ( 15-inch , Late 2016 ) and MacBook ( 13-inch , Late 2016 , Four Thunderbolt 3 Ports ) can power two devices that use up to 15 watts , and two more devices that use up to 7.5 watts . It does n't matter which side of your MacBook Pro that they 're connected to -- power is delivered on a first-come , first-served basis . Source : <URL> MacBooks typically require in the range of 55 watts to 90 watts of power in order to charge ( depending on the model , e.g. the late-2016 13 " MacBook Pros require 60 watts , while the 15 " models require 85 watts ) . As a result , the amount of power being delivered from the MBP via it 's ThunderBolt ports would not be enough to charge another MacBook .
Airfoil from <URL> can stream audio from the Mac to many other devices , including iOS . It will capture any audio running on your system , either from a specific input ( e.g. Mic ) , application , or the entire system audio . Airfoil Speakers Touch Airfoil Speakers Touch runs on iPhones , iPods Touch , and iPads running iOS 4.0 or higher . Use it to send audio to your iOS device when connected to your local network ! Airfoil Speakers Touch works exclusively with Airfoil for Mac and Airfoil for Windows .
end question
start question
Select specific tabs with Command - # key in Safari ?
It 's not something you can do out-of-the-box , but there are ways to hack around that . This article will give details : <URL> Essentially , the trick is to create a series of scripts and use something like FastScripts ( or something like Alfred or LaunchBar ) to run the scripts .
I 've set up the same 3 finger middle click gesture in BTT and it works great with <URL> 's middle click to close setting .
You can enter events to specific calendars by holding down the + button See here the entry from iCal help : Add events to a calendar You can add any kind of event to your iCal calendars . For example , you can add meetings , doctor appointments , and family activities . You ca n't add events to a calendar you subscribed to . Open iCal Click Add ( + ) at the top of the iCal window or press Command ( ⌘ ) - N. Events are added automatically to your default calendar . If you want to choose a different calendar for the event , hold down the Add button ( + ) , and then choose a calendar . To change your default calendar , choose iCal > Preferences , click General , and then select a calendar from the Default Calendar pop-up menu .
If AutoFill is disabled , Safari wo n't ask to save passwords either .
Indeed , the Twitter notifications will always redirect you to the web application , even if you have a native Twitter client installed . In fact , Twitter notifications also work without Twitter.app as long as you have your Twitter account configured . There currently is no way to change this behaviour .
With regards to your question , there does n't seem to be a way to mount it at a specific point , hover to mount it at boot , have you looked at the <URL> application ? Make RAM Disk is an application that provides an easy way to create , format , and mount a RAM disk in one shot . If you add the application to your Login Items it will automatically create the RAM disk at each boot . PS : Tested this on OSX Lion without any issues . For completeness sake the following is from the Readme File : How do I use it ? Just run it . By default , it creates a 64-MiB RAM disk named " RAM Disk " . Can I have it create a RAM disk on startup/login ? Yes . Add it to your Login Items in the Accounts pane of System Preferences . How do I get rid of the RAM disk ? Click on the Eject ( ⏏ ) button next to its name in the Finder 's sidebar . Alternatively , use Disk Utility ( in / Applications/Utilities ) to eject it . I want to create a bigger or smaller RAM disk or to create it with a different name . How do I do that ? Hold down the Option key while launching Make RAM Disk ; it will present a window wherein you can change the size or name of the volume . If the " Save settings for next time " checkbox is checked , the settings you enter here will be saved ( obviously ) ; if not , they are forgotten just before quitting . Remember : the Option key for the Options window . Can I change the options without actually creating a RAM disk ? Yes . As long as the box is checked , the options will be saved , whether you create a RAM disk or not .
I do n't know if this is exactly what you want , but if you open Settings , then click on Safari , then scroll down and click on Advanced , then click on Website Data you will get a list of websites that have stored data . You can click Edit then remove the data from just the sites that you want to remove stored data from .
From Apple 's <URL> ( emphasis added ) : If you ca n't access the device that shared the tab , the tab will automatically be cleared from the list after 14 days if the tab is n't updated . So , any leftover tabs should be gone after two weeks .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
To select a continuous grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Shift key , then click the last one in the group . To select a random grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Command ⌘ key ( on a Mac keyboard ) or Windows key ( on a Windows keyboard on a Mac ) , then click the next one and so on until all are selected . You can let up on the Command ⌘ key or Windows key in-between selecting however make sure you press it before selecting the next one or it will break the grouping and you 'd have to start over . You can deselect by pressing the Command ⌘ key or Windows key , then click the one ( s ) to be removed .
Thanks to <URL> for this : In terminal , you can turn wifi off and on with these commands en1 being wifi . Try to see whether that 's right for you or not . Here 's a one-liner to toggle between on and off Create a keyboard shortcut that runs a shell command Start Automator , and create a new Service . Set " Service receives selected : to " no input " in " any application " . Add an action named " Run Shell Script " . It 's in the Utilities section of the Actions Library . Insert the bash command you want into the text box and test run it using the Run button ( top right ) . It should do whatever the script does ( off , on or toggle ) , and there should be green ticks below the Action . Save it , giving it a service name you can remember . Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard , and go to the Shortcuts tab Go to the Services section , and scroll down to General - you should find your service there . If you select the line , you can click " add shortcut " and give it a keyboard shortcut .
You can use this block of AppleScript to loop through your tabs on a window : This will go through all your tabs and switch every 1 second . Just change the delay to change the time before each tab switches .
First , you 'll need to install the Terminal Plugin . Run any command from Quicksilver ? Just enter text mode ( by pressing . ) , enter your command and choose either the " Run Text Command in Terminal " action ( opens a new terminal window and runs the command ) or the " Run Command in Shell " action ( runs the command in the background and returns the results to Quicksilver ) Run a script ? Just browse to the script and choose the " Run " or " Run in Terminal [ ... ] " actions .
I actually asked a <URL> ( but more broad so this is n't a duplicate ) . I got this as an answer ( it works , I tested it ) : Write the below line in terminal : defaults write com.apple.Safari com.apple.Safari.ContentPageGroupIdentifier.WebKit2BackspaceKeyNavigationEnabled - bool YES Then restart Safari . Hope this helps !
According to the author of Skim , there is a bug in Yosemite that swapped the up and down arrow keys . Some versions of Skim had the fix , and the author later decided to remove it . In the newest version of Skim , 1.4.12 , the author re-added the workaround . From the changelog :
This is a new feature in Mac OS X Lion . See <URL> ( Resume ) . You can disable this in and untick the " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps , but will be system wide . Another solution is to hold ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + Q when quitting , the app will then not save the state .
Currently there is no way to block ads in mobile safari without a jailbreak or the use of an alternative browser from the app store .
Something like should do the trick . It is plain vanilla unix .
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
end question
start question
Can I use TimeMachine with a Thunderbolt hard drive ?
Yes . You can use Time Machine with any directly attached hard drive . It is much faster , although if you have a laptop , it is somewhat less convenient to remember to plug the drive in than to use wireless . The folks from Apple were probably recommending a Time Capsule , which is a wireless router with a built-in drive for backups . It 's definitely an easy way to do it , but not required .
The best guess is that it is going to depend on the computer . <URL> But , yes , assuming that a given Thunderbolt port is carrying the DisplayPort signal , there should be no reason why the Thunderbolt display will not work on that port as a display , regardless of the kind of computer . Now as for other features included , it may depend on drivers for those features and how the host operating system recognizes what other things are included in the Thunderbolt display . For example , how customized the drivers are for each extra included device in the Apple Thunderbolt display is probably yet to be determined . For example the speakers , extra USB/FireWire ports , network card , etc. may not work if the host OS ca n't find a driver . The specifics of how a motherboard-based Thunderbolt port can talk to any given PCI-Express graphics card installed in that board is also an interesting detail to address , hopefully the next generation Mac Pro will give an example of this since its implementation is questioned as well in the Thunderbolt wiki article as well : Because the PCIe bus does not carry video data , it is unclear whether a standalone PCIe card could offer a Thunderbolt port . The Intel Thunderbolt Technology Brief does not give a conclusive answer . Intel disclosed documentation where video stream is sent to a dual-Thunderbolt controller , with the video stream being only sent to one of the Thunderbolt ports , giving the assumption that video stream is not mandatory on Thunderbolt implementation . It looks like many of questions will be answered in the future as more hardware is rolled out but here is a bit of speculation on the noted <URL> . Another aspect that makes the DSL3510 interesting is that it supports multiple internal DisplayPort inputs . What this means is that it could in theory interface with a discrete graphics card as well as the integrated graphics from an Intel CPU . This is likely to be the chip used by Apple in its desktop systems , whereas the more power efficient DSL3310 will end up in notebook products .
Yes . You can use Time Machine with any directly attached hard drive . It is much faster , although if you have a laptop , it is somewhat less convenient to remember to plug the drive in than to use wireless . The folks from Apple were probably recommending a Time Capsule , which is a wireless router with a built-in drive for backups . It 's definitely an easy way to do it , but not required .
First , I put both the new and old drive into a PC of mine , and loaded up an Ubuntu LiveCD . At this point , my old drive is showing up as / dev/sde and new drive is / dev/sdf ( WARNING : be sure to update the below commands with your device assignments or you can easily ERASE all your data ) . does n't work on the drive because it is a GPT partition table ( ? ) , and so I use instead . I forgot to mention in my question , the drives are of different sizes ( 500gb was old , 128gb is new ) , so I could n't just clone the entire drive . Instead , I recreated the partitions with and copied the MBR over . I most likely went about creating the MBR ( master boot record ) on the new drive completely wrong , but this way worked for me : ( the reason was the first 39 sectors were not part of a partition ) Next , I opened with which there was a problem : the MBR I copied over brought the old drive 's partition table &amp; its sector information ( i.e. new drive thought it was 500gb ) . So I used the " repair " option in as it recommended , deleted partitions # 2 &amp; # 3 , and saved the table . At this point , if I went back into , the disk showed a MBR , and no longer had errors . Next , I created the other two partitions , being extra careful to setup the sector size exactly as the old disk had ( for the # 1 EFI partition and the # 3 Recovery HD partition that is ) . For # 2 , I just did the math , and created the disk accordingly ) . Finally , I used to copy partition # 1 ( " EFI System Partition " ) and # 3 ( " Recovery HD " ) over from the old drive : When I put the new drive in my MBP , I held Command + R to get into the Mac OS X Utilities , at which point I erased my main partition ( at first , the disk was n't listed when I went to install Lion -- probably since I just created the partition and did n't format it ) . I formatted it to the recommended file system ( Journaled -- I forget how they phrased it ) . OS X Lion is currently installing , and seems to be okay . I 'll post back if I get any oddness . Note : mentioned in its help section that it is probably best to use a Mac disk utility if the GPT drive is being use on a mac , so take my solution with a grain of salt . ( I think fdisk says the same warning about NTFS and FAT , but I 've never had a problem with using fdisk/linux to create/format/etc on that end ) .
Why not use Disk Utility to write zeroes or if you have more time , interest in being sure it works repeatable , set it to write more passes of random data . The drive will report IO errors in the system.log if there are hardware errors . If you have an SSD or want a tool to read back the random bits to ensure everything not only wrote properly , but can be read back with perfect fidelity , see the free tool <URL> written by <URL> . You might also like to read over <URL>
Unfortunately no . I am running a setup with a 2016 MacBook Pro , the Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter and a 2013 iMac 27 " .
Yes - Mac do not care if the boot drive is connected internally or externally . I usually recommend installing the OS on the new drive with it connected externally since you do n't do the swap until after you know the drive boots externally , but the opposite order is fine . Now , if you have problems , it 's going to be because of hardware issue ( cable , or drive failure ) or possibly the software is n't complete / correct .
Short answer : it does n't matter . Longer version : Either will work fine . SATA is backwards compatible , so SATA 6Gb/s drives will work on SATA 3Gb/s interfaces and vice-versa . The 2011 Macbook Pros have 6Gb/s ports for the HD ( some in the optical bay as well ) . However , no mechanical hard drive can come close to maxing out SATA 3Gb/s speed , so you 'll see no difference from a 6Gb/s drive or interface . It makes a difference with SSDs , but with hard drives , it 's merely marketing .
From my hands-on experience , I 'd have to say , " negative " . I 've created a couple of fusion drives on a 2008 Mac Pro from devices with preexisting partitions . Building the fusion in Core Storage destroyed all partitions on the media .
When an interface self-assigns an IP it generally means the interface is n't getting any response from your router or DHCP server . This is a feature of OS X to let the machines build an adhoc network when they can not determine the actual network they 're on -- you can put a bunch of Macs on a dumb hub and almost get them to self-organize and function with this feature . Your router and DHCP server are going to see the MAC address listed for the device in the Network Preferences pane . Go to and click on your Thunderbolt interface . Click on the button and then on the tab : That 's the MAC address that your interface is broadcasting on the network when it 's trying to acquire an IP on your network from your DHCP server .
Here is the visual comparison of Apple TRRS plug and a standard TRS plug . On the top you can see a 4-pin headset connector . A headset connector needs to be using the same TRRS standard , or it will not function properly if at all . On the bottom you can see a 3-pin headphone connector . Any headphone connector will work fine . Standard 3.5 mm jack stereo headphones have a 3-conductor configuration of TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The pinout for these connectiors is : Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground . Connectors for headphones with a mic have an additional ring which results in a 4-conductor TRRS configuration ( Tip , Ring , Ring , Sleeve ) . There have been different TRRS standards : The original OMTP configuration , which was created by Nokia and has a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Mic , Ground . AHJ ( American Headset Jack ) with a pinout of Left Audio , Right Audio , Ground , Mic . CTIA , named after <URL> , which replaced AHJ and has the same pinout . CTIA jacks have improved compatibility to support not only AHJ but also OMTP . CTIA is by default <URL> device manufacturers . Source : <URL> Wikipedia has a short <URL> for which device uses which standard . At last a few points to note : Plugging an OMTP headset into an AHJ jack , and vice versa , will result in the audio-out being inaudible or very quiet . Converters to switch between the two types of headsets are readily <URL> , but do add extra bulk , and may not work reliably with remote control functionality . Apple uses a CTIA/AHJ connector arrangement , but uses a non-standard microphone and volume control signaling method . Simple commands like Play/Pause and Skip however should work across modern mobile devices .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
Try <URL> . It is free and should handle most kinds of video formats . The method for recognising AVCHD format is with regard to Apple Video applications , and not QuickTime . Those applications have the reader for that format . But you 're only interested in viewing them so I suggested VideoLan . Also there is a QuickTime plugin which recognises many formats , but I have never tried it with AVCHD or MTS formats . It is called <URL> . Please note that it is no longer supported in the form of updates but it is still offered on the official site .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
From the link provided : Supports eSATA Transfer Speed up to 3Gbps Supports USB 2.0 Transfer Speed up to 480Mbps For the 3Gbps transfer speed you will need the <URL> and the <URL>
Password protecting a drive is n't really possible ( or even useful ) without also encrypting the contents of the drive . Honestly I 'm not even certain that 's something you can do since , what would the password be granting access to if the contents of the drive were n't encrypted ? So really the question you want to ask is : how do I encrypt an external hard drive ? With Lion you have <URL> to achieve this . FileVault makes it easy to encrypt your primary drive but you can also use it to encrypt the contents of remote storage . Just about any read/write storage media you attach via USB or FireWire can be FileVault 'd and secured . The caveat ? You can only use FileVault-protected drives on other Lion machines . <URL> . To summarize the steps : Mount the drive Open Disk Utility Select the drive and click on the Erase tab For the format pick either Mac OS Extended ( Journaled , Encrypted ) or Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) from the list of available options . In most cases you 'll want the former . Press Erase to start the format You 'll be asked to confirm your choice and enter a password for the volume Once the formatting is complete you 'll need to enter the password to be able to mount and view the contents of the drive If you 're not running Lion or you want something that 's portable across multiple OSes you can look at <URL> . It 's free software for encrypting file systems , much like FileVault , but it 's available for Windows , OS X ( both Snow Leopard and Lion ) and Linux so you can access the encrypted remote media from just about any machine .
You can not do this on an active partition . You need to boot into Recovery Mode which will let you delete the unwanted partition and resize the main partition . Select the whole drive then the Partition tab . <URL> PS Make sure you have a Time Machine backup before doing anything .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
According to <URL> and other articles , yes , it does work ! ( And it functions just like any other audio input/output device -- with any application that supports audio in/out . )
end question
start question
Is there an app for the iPhone 4 that tells the pitch of a note through an audio input ?
Garageband can do this . Open a new ( or existing ) project and add a new " real " track with no effects . On the bottom edge of the window you ´ ll see a LCD-like window which usually displays the current time or measure in the track ; depending on which version of Garageband you ´ re using , you can now either use the up - / down-arrows to switch to the tuner ( tuning fork symbol ) or click on the tuning fork symbol directly to select the tuner . Every sound that is picked up by your Mac ´ s microphone will now be displayed as note ( with off-pitch )
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
I use eReader for my old PDBs on my iPhone as it 's the ' official ' reader put out by the same company that put out the original readers on Palm and Pocket PC devices . It works quite well for HVGA devices and is acceptable ( though the text is a bit pixelated ) on an iPhone 4 , but as they do n't have a dedicated iPad version , I would avoid using it on that device . edit : Looks like I spoke too soon - eReader just released an <URL> today that includes a native iPad client , though it looks like we 're still waiting on a retina display version .
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
You could take it apart and fix it yourself , however it will void any warranty on the phone . You can view the <URL> for steps for removing and replacing the Home button . Note that you will have to take apart the majority of the phone to get to the button . Your best bet would be to go to Apple for a repair or find an authorized repair service shop to do it for you .
Not without a jailbreak . If you get a jailbreak there are various ways to do things such as switch airplane mode on/off , adjust screen brightness , turn wifi/3G on or off . The app <URL> is one such example . You 'd be better off diagnosing your AP problem than jailbreaking your phone for just this feature though in my opinion .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
Check out <URL> , it 's quite awesome . Boom boosts the volume of your Mac at all levels . From boosting the volume of your music on iTunes , it boom the YouTube videos playing on your web browser . You can now boost the volume of any application playing sound or video like QuickTime , Podcasts , Skype , iChat , DVD Player , Garageband , iMovie and so on .
Is there somewhere that gives more than just a cursory explanation of how to use it ? Probably not - Apple 's not big on providing manuals when they do n't think they 're necessary . For example , when does it chose to download podcasts ? Probably hourly . There 's no option to change this that I can find . Can you force it to update the podcasts without going one by one and clicking on the download link ? It downloads new episodes for subscribed podcasts automatically . Will it download over cellular ? Yep , it does . It also streams over cellular , and well enough that I did n't notice that that was what it was doing at first . ( I 'm on Verizon 3G . ) Can it download the podcasts but play through the normal music app ? Nope . It 's totally separate . ( There 's rumor/suspicion that the Music app wo n't even have a Podcasts section in iOS 6 . )
No , no files are leftover when deleting an app . iOS apps ( and now OS X apps too ) , are Sandboxed . This means that each App has its own space in disk , with its own directories , which act as the home for the app and its data . Deleting an app from the iPhone deletes this sandbox , deleting all data associated with the app .
If the application does n't provide a way to delete documents , uninstalling and reinstalling the app is definitively the best option here .
It all depends on how the app developers chose to implement the software . Take Dropbox as an example . It 's pretty popular and let 's you <URL> at once : In fact , I would also expect them to eventually make it automatically upload all your photos as part of their <URL> feature they are rolling out . For facebook on the other hand , you <URL> need to use a 3rd party application such as <URL> or <URL> , until Facebook change their application to allow this feature .
I suggest you use <URL> . It 's a plugin for Skype that will record both sides of the conversation into separate tracks . If you need high quality audio , you could have your interviewee record their own audio locally with QuickTime and send you the audio file . We use a combination of these two to create the Ask Different Podcast - individual QuickTime recordings for quality , and a Skype recording that we use to sync up the conversation .
You will find <URL> solutions ( Keyboard Maestro , Karabiner , Automator Wrapper ) or <URL> ( LaunchBar/Quicksilver ) to accomplish this . Another <URL> solution is the Launcher Mode : <URL> Download , install and start Karabiner . In the menubar open Karabiner - > Preferences Search for Launcher and enable the preset . To open Activity Monitor hold OA and release A
I use the MyFitnessPal app when on my iPhone and I use their website when on my Macbook Pro and find them to be easy to use . They do list the foods you 're mentioning on their website here ( the list is enormous , look around ) : <URL> I 'm in the USA so make sure they have the foods you want before signing up / buying the iPhone app .
Yup , you still can do it with Quicktime Player . Download it from <URL> . I believe you can also install it from the Snow Leopard install disc . I 'm not sure about the Lion install download . Open the movie and click File > Export : Then you can select Movie to Image Sequence : Set your destination folder and watch Quicktime Player do its magic .
I do n't think it exists , since Quartz provides limited input for the iTunes track , and mostly real-time . Quartz is the graphic layer of Mac OS X. Quartz Composer is a tool used to easily create animations , transitions , filters , visualizers , etc that work with this technology . As far as I know it is the only way of making an iTunes visualizer . When you attempt to create a new visualizer in the latest version , you get a pretty straight-forward of the input you 'll get from iTunes : Here ´ s a closer look : There is no file input of any kind . Not even the filename/path , and even if there were Quartz are graphic libraries , thus it 's ability for processing data , including sound waveforms is limited . All this input is received in real time , sent by iTunes : Quartz can only receive the numbers/text it is being given in real time , but not actually call any read operations on the sound file , and decode it to a sound wave . I 'll have to say , at least with Quartz Composer , no , it is not quite achievable . I do n't think you can create iTunes visualizers in any other way , and I have n't seen a visualizer with such functionality . Hope it helps ! Kevin
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
end question
start question
How do I convert video for an iPad ?
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
I 've looked around for this several times but today I just found its hiding spot -- the 0 key ! Just hold 0 until the alternate characters are shown . In the case of 0 , the only alternate character is ' ° ' .
One possible solution would be to use a locked <URL> - clear , much tougher to break and with a headphone jack pass through .
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
Yup , you still can do it with Quicktime Player . Download it from <URL> . I believe you can also install it from the Snow Leopard install disc . I 'm not sure about the Lion install download . Open the movie and click File > Export : Then you can select Movie to Image Sequence : Set your destination folder and watch Quicktime Player do its magic .
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
It does n't work this way . You can add images by going to the Photos app , selecting the pictures you want to add ( I believe it 's a button on the upper right of the screen to switch to selection mode ) , and tap on , once you selected them , then you can go back to your mail , tap where you want to add them and select
Greenpois0n rc5 Has been released and can do an untethered jailbreak on 4.2.1 without older SHSH blobs . <URL>
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
By the general term " app " , you ostensibly mean App Store ? And if you did delete his Apple ID , then it would n't ask for updates . You can either use a third-party program to remove those apps , or first delete them from the applications directory , then from Application Support located at . If you can not find it , then go to Terminal , located in and execute : Then you can just delete the folder under the name of that app Then , simply logout of his Apple ID if you failed in deleting it , and login your Apple ID
You can use Boolean operators : Use Boolean searches : Use Boolean operators such as AND , OR , and NOT . For example , to search for messages that contain " yosemite " and " yellowstone " but not " teton , " type " yosemite AND yellowstone NOT teton " or " yosemite AND yellowstone - teton . " You must type Boolean operators in uppercase . Souce : <URL>
In short : no , you ca n't stop it . It 's Google re-directing you . You can work around it though . You can scroll down to the very bottom of the page and tap the " desktop " link , which will take you to the full desktop version of the site . If what you want is the YouTube app to open , then all you can do is copy the name of the video from safari into the YouTube app . I know what you mean about it not loading the videos . It 's annoying !
Put your finger on the app and hold there . The app will start wobbling and have a cross in a circle at the top left . Then drag it to where you want . If you hit the cross it will delete the app .
I have the C910 and it 's totally working on my Mac Pro and my MacBook Air . QuickTime can record 1080p , as well as iMovie/FinalCut should . There is no necessarity for drivers or additional software to get this working on your Mac .
You can do this with QuickTime 7 . Grab a copy off the Mac OS X Install DVD . Go Window - > AV Controls and change the playback speed . ( Or something with a similar name ) Then View - > Loop for repeating .
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
HandBrake used to be my go-to app for this task but lets face it : nightmare UI . Especially if you 're a professed " non-technical guy " . The new wonder-in-a-box video convert is <URL> . Like HandBrake , it 's free . Unlike HandBrake the UI is very non-threatening . Drop file , pick output format , go . Works for video and audio .
In the Finder in Mac OS X , press Command-Shift-G to Go to folder . Type . This will take you to the " Volumes " folder . If your iDevice is mounted as a drive , it will appear here . You can select it and press Command-E to eject it . If it does not appear here , it is not mounted as a drive , and you can simply unplug it . Note that it may or may not appear on your Desktop or in a Finder sidebar depending on your settings , but it should always appear in the folder . On Windows , in the system tray , there is an icon you can click to " Safely Remove Hardware and Eject Media . " Right-click the icon , find the name of your iOS device , and click it to eject it . If it does not appear on this list , it is not mounted as a drive and you can simply unplug it .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
The iPhone 4S takes video at 1080p and 30 fps and initial tests are showing that video takes 200MB per minute . At roughly 12 GB per hour , what seemed staggering a year ago is now quite quaint with the iPhone 4 recording at less than 5 GB / hour . <URL> that an hour of iPhone 4 video is 4.8 gig . The iPhone records its 720p HD video at around 10 megabits ( Mbps ) per second . That translates to about 80MB per minute , as we noted above , or a staggering 4.8 GB per hour . ( Hope you sprung for the 32GB model ! )
end question
start question
Remove or delete a review from my iTunes app ?
Reporting a concern is the only way to attempt to remove a review . The process is not instant and requires manual approval . If you 've only just sent the form , wait a bit . If it 's been a while and the review is still there , it probably means that someone has reviewed your complaint and declined it .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
Well since you are using Mac OSX , when you plug in your phone you can do the following to back up your pictures OUTSIDE of iTunes . Step 1 Open up Preview with your phone plugged in . Go to File > Import Image . You will see it populate all your photos/videos . Save them in a separate folder ( maybe somewhere on your desktop ) , then delete them all from your phone . If you are concerned about mass deleting these files , you can just do it with SSH . This is after you 've imported all your images through preview . From Terminal on your desktop type Will prompt you with a PW , chances are if you have n't changed it it 's alpine or Alpine . Change directories via the following command : Depending on the amount of images/videos you have you will see 100APPLE / and maybe 101APPLE / . In the directory type this to remove ALL images and movies in one command Backup in iTunes now and you have a fresh backup with just numbers/apps/whatever else . You can then import the pictures/videos back if you want after you restore it .
Open Finder , select Go/Go to Folder ... ( ⇧ ⌘ G ) , paste in : Delete the apps from there . ( Note that ~ means your user folder , not the regular Applications folder . ) Finally , empty the trash to remove from launchpad . If you use Canary or any other type of Chrome build : it will have its own additional folder in .
When in the boot manager ( the one when you press ⌥ Option on startup ) , click on the arrow ( for the Mac OS X partition ) . The boot priority should then default to the Mac OS X one . Otherwise , you can try going to the Startup Disk preference pane in System Preferences , and try setting it ( by restarting ) .
Your iPhone will return to factory settings as if you had a new iPhone .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
<URL> will allow you to delete any app from your Launchpad . Just open it , select the app you want to delete and press ⌘ ⌫ .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
You can delete the stocks app from your phone on iOS 10 - and that removes it from the watch . There is n't a way to have it on the phone but not on the watch . There were currently no workarounds , jailbreaks or non-obvious ways hide and minimize the stocks app on the Apple Watch apps display on iOS 9 and associated watch OS . The rest of this answer applies if you can not upgrade to iOS 10 and watchOS 3 . Consider making a long tail arrangement of apps placing the ones you do n't want to see to the end of the line . In practice , you 'll see the few apps centered around the clock face central point of the graph .
Currently , there does n't seem to be a way to prevent iTunes from pulling in the voice memos . The closest I 've been able to figure would be to have a script or launchd item that simply removes anything that it sees . Preferable copying them to another directory for storage .
One solution is to install <URL> and change the file association for text files . Another solution is to disable Windows application integration for that virtual machine . To do that open the virtual machine , go to the Virtual Machine menu and select Settings ... Change the settings for Default Applications . You likely want to uncheck Run Windows applications from you Mac 's Applications folder
iCloud Photo Library 's purpose is to unify the photo libraries across your devices . If you wish your devices to maintain separate libraries , you need to disable iCloud Photo Library .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
Settings -- > General -- > keyboard ----- > Keyboards -- > You 'll see ENGLISH and EMOJI . On the top right corner is the word EDIT . Press EDIT , and then swipe delete to remove the EMOJI keyboard .
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
I would select all the music you want converted , and make a playlist out of them . Next convert the files . Then select all the songs in your new playlist and delete them from your library by pressing Option Delete ( OS X ) or Shift Delete ( Windows ) . Additionally , I hope you are n't converting lossy music to MP3 , as that would produce lesser quality files for no benefit .
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
If the application does n't provide a way to delete documents , uninstalling and reinstalling the app is definitively the best option here .
end question
start question
Mavericks : Window across multiple monitors ?
Quoting from John Siracusa 's <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : If you prefer the old behavior , uncheck the " Displays have separate Spaces " checkbox in the Mission Control preference pane . Doing so will also restore the ability to have windows that span more than one display . So yes , it 's just a setting . It 's been put in the Mission Control pane , rather than Displays , because the effect of this change is to allow you to have different full screen apps on different displays . The page of the review that I linked to explains the change in more detail ( and specifically discusses the window-across-multiple-displays behaviour that you want ) .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
Having used every Mavericks beta since beta 1 , including the GM , as well as the final version , I can quite confidently say that everyone should upgrade straight away . Whilst the many betas of Mavericks have had many bugs , the GM seemed to do away with almost all of these . For example , in every beta before GM , I suffered from an awful bug whereby you could n't actually put the Mac to sleep - it would have to be shut down , since clicking Sleep or closing the lid would n't do anything . This was fixed along with many more bugs in the GM . With my poor internet , I was considering keeping the Mavericks GM for a while , since I saw no incentive to update - there was n't any problem that I was hoping that the public version would fix1 . It would appear that Apple 's done it right this time , using the GM as the 10.9.0 and the public release as the 10.9.1 . In conclusion , I believe that people should upgrade from Mountain Lion to Mavericks without hesitation - there 's no massive bugs from what I can tell , and I see no major reason for Apple to expedite the release of 10.9.1 to fix a serious problem . 1 ( unlike my experience with the Mountain Lion beta - the public release could n't come soon enough )
iOS 6 combines your phone number with your Apple ID email address , which makes it possible for others to iMessage your phone number and have those Messages sync across your devices . Whereas , previously , with iOS 5 , one had to use Apple ID email addresses only in order for it to sync across devices . First , you need to make sure all your devices are on the same Apple ID . On each iOS device ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad , iPad Mini ) : Open Settings.app Go to " Messages " and make sure iMessage is On . If iMessage is on , " Send &amp; Receive " will appear below it . Tap on it . Make note of the Apple ID at the top of the page . Select your phone number and email address ( es ) that you want to sync to that device . On each Mountain Lion Mac : Open Messages Click the " Accounts " tab in the top . Select your iMessage/Apple ID account , and make sure " Enable this account " is checked . Select your phone number and any email address ( es ) that you would like synced . The most important part is that everything is consistent across all the devices . Note that only new iMessages will sync - history will not . If you are still having trouble getting new iMessages to sync across the devices try : Disabling then re-enabling iMessage on each device that is n't being synced to . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
You might want to check out this question : <URL> My recommendation , if you want it to be fully automatic , is to use Slate . <URL> is no longer in active development , but it still works and is highly customizable . Put this code in a file in your home directory :
Syncing between all macs , pcs and iOS devices will be possible when iCloud is released to the public along with iOS 5 .
You can set up ' Locations ' using System Preferences - > Network , which should do what you need . In the Network System Preferences panel , you 'll see ( at the top ) a pop-up menu labeled Location . It will be set to Automatic . Click that menu and choose Edit Locations ... Click the [ + ] button in the panel that appears . Name your new Location . Click Done . Make sure the new Location is selected under the Location : menu , and set it up . Then , when you need to change back to the other setup , change the location back to Automatic ( or rename Automatic something more descriptive ) . When you need to change again , switch back to your new one .
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
You ca n't really do this in iMovie as it is limited to 2 video tracks . You can do it in Final Cut or Premiere Pro if you 're willing to spend the money , or HitFilm Express if you want do n't want to spend a penny .
You probably need to step a level further down the tree of software and hardware , to the level of <URL> - which acts as a filter between the physical keyboard and the keyboard events reported to MacOS . The software keyboard map is an optional thing - software can intercept keyboard events at a level that bypasses it , if they wish , and it sounds like some of what the browser does with key binding is touching on that . A lower level remapping may bypass that problem .
The only way to achieve this with applications that do not have native multi-account support would be to patch the CFBundleIdentifier which is also used by the application to find passwords on keychains . You can change that by editing the Info.plist file in the application bundle . This will break the digital signature of the application , so always work on a copy . With Reeder being an application from the Mac AppStore this will break the digital signature of the application rendering it non-launchable . So you will need to remove all signs of as well . Then this might work unless the application does additional bundle checking that will prevent this . ( Which is something I do n't know in the case of Reeder . ) When that actually works , you will need to launch the application with a secondary-click ( right click , two-finger click or ctrl-click ) then selecting " Open " from the contextual menu and confirming the subsequent warning from Gatekeeper . ( I definitely can not recommend to turn off Gatekeeper completely . ) Of course you will need to do all these steps for each and every copy after each update of Reeder again . ( With the risk that Reeder may add additional checks at any time rendering this process not working anymore . ) Other solutions may be to use different RSS clients for your multiple accounts and requesting multi-account support from the developers .
If you want a cheaper alternative to running two <URL> , you can add a second monitor ( in addition to one off the mini-Displayport ) try a USB <URL> adapter , <URL> from <URL> ( there are other brands , any one using the Displaylink technology should work ) . The performance wo n't be as good , but as long as you 're not doing anything involving lots of 3D , it should be acceptable .
To code using Swift you 'll need Xcode 6 . Xcode 6 beta is compatible with Mavericks 10.9.3 and upwards so yes it is possible to write Swift code in Mavericks ! NB : As of July 11 , Xcode 6 beta is available freely on <URL> . <URL>
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
There is a second clipboard in OS X , called the kill-ring . Press Control ^ + K to " kill " ( copy ) the rest of the current line to the kill-ring , and Control ^ + Y to " yank " ( paste ) it .
Sorry , I only know command-line tools to do the job . You can use for that ( like in ) . <URL> and , of course , . Setting Multiple " Power On " &amp; Power Off " Events Currently , it appears that pmset will NOT allow you to set more than one pair of " power on " &amp; " power off " events when using a repeating schedule . For example ... The above command would set a repeating schedule that would shutdown the Mac nightly at 2 AM in the morning and startup daily at 6:45 AM . But , if you want to set multiple " power on " &amp; " power off " events , you could specify a specific date/time and with a little scripting you could setup a schedule for a month .
I assume that you 've selected " Start Screen Saver " in the hot-corner in question , correct ? If so , what screen saver do you currently have configured ? The reason that I ask is that some screen savers ( although none of the ones that come with your Mac ) start with the current desktop image and then apply special effects to it over time . So I can imagine if . . you 've configured your screensaver to shuffle through screen savers , and you have installed one of the aforementioned screensavers , ... that this combination could produce the kind of symptoms you are describing . Edit : Interesting . I do n't even have " Lock Screen " as one of the choices on my machine : Edit 2 : I had never tried that option until now . I set up my laptop ( model identifier , 2.93 Ghz ) as you described and put the display to sleep with that hot corner and woke it up over &amp; over again . I went through about 50 iterations , and I was able to reproduce your problem 3 times in that span : the display would appear to blank , but when it woke up I could see my desktop with the login panel overlayed . Because this kind of configuration involves invoking the special power-management circuitry in the machine , there are more moving parts that can go wrong in the process . I believe you have little choice other than to report the problem to Apple , and even if there is a real bug , there will be a chance that the bug is in the power-management circuitry itself and the ' fix ' might only come when you can buy a new machine . Or not . Maybe you could get lucky and there this could be fixed by a firmware update or a point-release of the OS . I like this option , now that you have pointed it out to me . I like that it immediately puts the display to sleep , which makes me feel better about how my battery is being used . Alas , if blanking the screen and keeping it from prying eyes is a higher priority , maybe you should use the " Start Screen Saver " option instead , and set the screensaver to something mostly black like the " Computer Name " screensaver . I wish I could offer more help .
Place <URL> in / System/Library/Fonts / . You can extract fonts from your OS X install media using <URL> or grab a copy from your backup or another Mac with similar build/version . For more information regarding recovering system files , see : <URL>
Yes , Mavericks will keep the window in the same location as when you unplug your external display . The only exception is when you take one of those windows full screen , in which case it will not return to the original position when you exit full screen mode . The window would instead go to your currently active display .
The OS X upgrades on the MAS are very different than all other products . It is an installer as opposed to the actual program that you run . What is available is the chance for you to re-download the installer before you need it and save a copy . Apple initially made it hard for people to re-download the installer - presumably since many are equally confused as you are . However , lots of people were confused on how to re-download the app and a change was made a while back to show it as a download to anyone that " purchased " an upgrade .
end question
start question
When and how I will be paid in iTunes Connect Developer account ?
In iTunes Connect , under Agreements , Tax , and Banking , you can add your bank account . Apple will then pay the money into the account when it reaches a certain amount .
In the Instruments panel ( the icon of the stopwatch ) , click Network Requests on the left . You should then see the timeline on the left , and a list of requests underneath . Click the Type column heading to sort the requests by type and then all the XHR requests will be grouped together . Alternatively , in Safari 's Develop menu , you can select " Use WebKit Web Inspector " to switch back to the old inspector .
Yes , it is midnight PST/PDT to midnight PST/PDT . Keep in mind that your numbers will not always match the official reports . It all depends on the timing of when credit card transactions complete and money is actually posted , etc. .
I ca n't find any description in writing saying that there is any grace period for you to access playlists or any other data after you end a subscription period in iTunes Match . I do recall a warning when signing up for Match that quite explicitly said that I needed to be sure to download all playlists and music from the cloud before my subscription ended . This is in addition to the caution to keep a backup copy of all data ( which in the case of playlists would be using iTunes to export the library to an XML file regularly in addition to backing up each track ) . Apple could be more generous about keeping non-subscriber data around for a grace period of a day or a week or a month , but why risk this when you can back up everything now and then update that backup with anything that changes a week before your subscription ends ?
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
In iTunes Connect , under Agreements , Tax , and Banking , you can add your bank account . Apple will then pay the money into the account when it reaches a certain amount .
Yes , Google Chrome has a sandboxed built-in version of Flash . Download Chrome . Navigate to : Macintosh HD > Users > Guests Right Click and select " New Folder " and change its name to Applications Open the Google Chrome disk image and drag Chrome.app to this folder Google Chrome and its Flash player will only be accessible to the Guest user .
You might also want to have a look at <URL> and <URL> which are powerful automation tools . Keyboard Maestro in particular is incredibly powerful .
The screen is a <URL> so it depends on a conductive item contacting it . A number of companies have produced gloves with appropriately conductive finger pads .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
Yes , simply run the following in Terminal : Where is the default installation of Xcode , typically :
Apple does not assume who owns the copyright . The copyright field is provided for you to explicitly state who claims copyright for the uploaded product . Apple 's <URL> states : Copyright ( required ) The name of the person or entity that owns the exclusive rights to the app , preceded by the year the rights were obtained ( for example , 2014 Example , Inc. ) . The copyright symbol is added automatically . Copyright is a <URL> . If you are unsure or have legal questions , you are best contacting a legal expert for the jurisdictions you intend to operate within . You may also find this question helpful , <URL> .
Apparently , it 's coming soon to Eye-Fi cards , and they will have firmware upgrades for all existing cards . . <URL>
It should continue , if your script has any error-handling for loosing connection to the database ( assuming off-site DB ) . Though the exact behaviour is hard to predict without seeing the actual code . Sleeping the system may also leed to unexpected results in the script .
Seems like this is a bug in iTunes , happens to me as well as others . There 's a few posts on the apple support forum : <URL> <URL> <URL> There 's more if you search there , but no solutions available . UPDATE : Bug is fixed for me in iTunes 12.2.2.25
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
From Apples Documentation ( it puts you in back of the queue ) : Removing a Build from Review Removing a build removes your app version from Apple 's review queue and changes its status to Developer Rejected . When you resubmit your app , the review process starts over from the beginning . You can remove the build you 've submitted if its status is any of the following : Waiting For Export Compliance Waiting For Review In Review Pending Developer Release Pending Apple Release
It appears that everyone that owns an older copy of iWork for iOS gets a free upgrade whether or not your version came from a retail CD or the Mac App Store . If you do n't already own iWork - you will have to pay for either a new Mac or the apps piecemeal on the App Store . The above summary is my understanding of this MacWorld article that includes calls with Apple Press relations and an " on-the-record " confirmation that all owners of iWork should get free upgrades despite some glitches in the initial roll out today . <URL>
From <URL> : You can use the Connect To Server command to connect to an FTP server in the Finder , but you will have read-only access . You can not copy , or upload , to an FTP volume in the Finder .
end question
start question
What is the function ( s ) of the hidden Debug menu in Disk Utility ?
The Debug menu mostly gives access to functions in relation to hidden partitions ( e.g. the system-restore-partition in Lion ) . see <URL> Most likely the Debug menu is mainly for Apple internal use ( their techs dealing with stuff probably found these functions useful ) so it 's hidden by default .
This was changed in Lion along with the introduction of Auto Save and Versions . Save As is still available by holding ⌥ alt whilst in the menus .
There are only three reasons your phone might be overheating when it 's not due to the environment : Hardware problem iOS problem Program running requires a lot of resources 1 and 2 really require a device wipe in order to test for , since you 're trying to avoid that , the only thing you can debug is 3 . The easiest way to debug that is to reset your device ( power off completely , then reboot ) every morning after charging , then go about your day and make note of what apps you use , and whether your phone overheats or not . Rebooting it will make sure few to no apps are running . If the overheating problem goes away then it 's most likely a particular app that 's causing the problem , though finding it is going to be difficult since it 's one you do n't use daily . If the problem still happens occasionally , keep track of what apps you had run prior to it overheating , and see if there 's a correlation , then try going a few days without using the app that shows up most often , and then try a few days using it every morning . That should give you solid evidence about whether the app is the culprit or not . If there 's no correlation between any particular app usage and overheating , then you 're pretty much going to have to wipe it . Perform a backup , and take it to the store . Since you have to do a wipe anyway , you might as well do it once and get a replacement while you 're at it . Apple takes overheating concerns very seriously and they should replace it without difficulty if it 's under warranty . If it 's not under warranty , then it 's worth wiping it yourself , updating the OS , loading just those apps you really need , and seeing if it still overheats . If the problem goes away , then restore the backup and see if it returns . If it does n't return after the backup , then it was likely a corrupt iOS issue . If it does return after the backup , there 's some app that 's causing the problem . If the problem did n't go away after wiping and reinstalling the OS , then it 's a hardware problem , and you should have it repaired or replaced .
Best practice would arguably be to Duplicate the document the moment you open it , then proceed with your edits . However , sometimes we open a document and start working , only to realize that it 's now ( in our mind ) a " new " document based on the original . Applications that support Lion 's versioning will give you the option to Duplicate and Revert , meaning that they will make a copy of the current document in it 's current state , then revert the original document back to its last saved state . If some unwanted changes have been saved within the original , you can use Revert to restore the original to the state you prefer . If a document has n't been opened for a period of time , it will open in a locked state and you will be prompted to either unlock or duplicate it before you can make changes .
I just solved my question . As it turns out , the password is stored in the Keychain Access . I just searched for the server and ticked the " Show password " checkbox on that particular item . Problem solved !
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
The free <URL> can do this : You can set up complex actions to be triggered by any of the buttons being either pressed or held .
Disk Utility in many respect is powered by <URL> , a command line utility that deals with file systems ( not just the one found on OS X ) . The option to verify ( and repair ) your disk deals with the health of the file system ( HFS + ) and the integrity of the data that resides on it , rather than the physical disk . It looks at how the data is stored and not if the drive is reporting mechanical errors ( to some extent this is reported by the S.M.A.R.T status ) . However it should stand to reason that a hardware fault will likely permeate through the file system structure ( though not always ) . Is Disk Utility good at finding hardware issues ? No , not really . It 's meant more to isolate problems with your data set than it is your hardware . There of course is some continuity there but they are not monogamous . DiskWarrior and Drive Genius will undoubtedly do a much better job diagnosing the physical health of your drive . But none are as powerful as the utilities released by your respective hard drive manufacturer . If you can use those , then all the better . Using multiple tools may also prove to be an affective strategy . Another avenue which can help in discovery is to comb your Console 's logs for anomalies . I 've had a WD disk exhibit strange behaviors and first became cognizant of the problem by way of a single error during the initial boot up sequence . Google and WD 's native Windows diagnostic tools helped me isolate the issue ( to some degree ) .
Not sure if this is a complete list , but this is a pretty good start from Apple : <URL> Here is another link to an image of the shortcuts : <URL>
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
What I do in these cases ( which I seem to run into fairly often lately ) is create a new folder in Applications , and then drag everything from the disk image into that folder . It 's one extra level , but it works just fine for almost every application .
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
Shift-Space Space goes down a page , and Shift-Space is the opposite , scrolling up one page .
For the reference : Length : 21.3 CM Width : 14.7 CM Height : 3.3 CM Gross Weight : 0.5 KG
DOE is a method to wipe disks , developed by Department of Energy as part in their manual to ensure the confidentiality of Department of Energy information . From <URL> : When Disk Utility uses the DOE-compliant 3-pass secure erase , it will write two passes of random data and then a single pass of a known data pattern . This will take anywhere from a day to a week or more , depending on the size of the drive . You can run this stress test in the background while you use your Mac for other activities .
AirDrop works outside of whatever WiFi networks are around and does n't need a base station . It is like a mesh network where all the devices just talk between each other . If nothing else is " sharing " the road - you get the full speed . The further away you are or the more interference , the slower it gets . AirDrop will work by passing the data from Mac to Mac so it will get the file there ( although slower ) if it has to jump once or twice along the way . That being said , for two close machines , the transfer speed should be the max wireless speed between your two machines . Hard drives are almost always faster reading and writing than WiFi speeds , so the radio link is generally the slowest . However , all of that is just theoretical . You can check your actual speed by opening Applications > Utilities > Activity Monitor Click the Network tab on the bottom and you should see stats about how fast the data is being sent and received . Detach from WiFi base stations to let AirDrop get all the hardware if you want the fastest transfers - leave it on if you need internet while dropping that large file .
Initially Apple used the phone number as the FaceTime " account " and non-user-visible SMS validation as the " password " to avoid forcing end users to enter/remember/forget yet another set of credentials . The SMS validation happens behind the scenes - but SMS does have to be active on the phone at the time of first verifying ( and potentially when re-verifying ? ) your FaceTime account on Apple 's servers . If you switch off FaceTime in the Phone settings , wait a few seconds and turn it back on - you can see this checking process . The status message will change to say " Waiting for activation ... " until Apple 's servers verify your account . Once it says " Your phone number will be shared with people you call with FaceTime . " the account is verified . You can now use AppleID for credentials for devices that do not have SMS and an easily accessed/understood phone number . SMS is needed one time at activation to ensure Apple 's push notification goes to the correct device - there should n't be a problem dropping SMS later once the device is registered . This data lets the address book facilitate dialing and location over WiFi . Apple runs servers that let each device check in and request to initiate a call if the receiver is online anywhere . There is no technical reason why FaceTime can not use cellular data for the call ( bits are bits ) but in practice the carriers would probably have to charge more for supporting everyone video chatting on networks that are currently straining to contain the data already flowing over them . On devices that allow an email address - if someone calls you - all the devices currently on ring but only one picks up . For example , it 's possible to receive incoming FaceTime calls ringing on a Mac , an iPod touch and an iPad - and any one can pick up the " call " .
The next step to do is to wipe/reformat one 's disk and do a clean install of Lion . This is radical , and I was hoping there would be a more nimble set of steps . Ask me in a while if you 'd like to know whether it has at least helped .
It turns out higher impedance headphones will produce very low sound on MacBooks . For this reason headphones with an ohms rating above 80 may not be suitable , and would require a headphone amplifier to function properly . Something like the <URL> could get the job done at the expense of some portability , although it would allow such headphones to be used with most portable devices too like iPods , iPhones , and iPads .
In this situation , I recommend using disk utility to partition the larger drive such that one partition matches the size of the smaller drive . Then setup the partitions of the same size as a RAID1 . You will end up with a mirrored partition of 1.5 TB and another un-mirrored partition of 0.5 TB based on your first example . Same thing will work for a 2TB + 3TB drive , but the mirrored/un-mirrored partitions will be 2TB and 1TB , respectively . Brand wo n't matter and you can use disk utility to find the exact sizes .
end question
start question
How do you EXIT full screen mode in Yosemite ?
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
You can find it under Applications/Utilities . <URL> From there , you can drag it to your Dock to create an alias . <URL> for additional info on making the most of the Dock . To remove the Question Mark , drag it off the Dock until you see " Remove " then release .
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
This still is possible via a work around . The right-click contextual menu does not contain an option Make Alias for the Originals/Masters directories , but it does for subdirectories . The option Make Alias always shows in the menubar under File & #x 2192 ; Make Alias but is greyed out for the Originals/Masters directories . Workaround Go to a subdirectory of Originals/Master in Finder . Create your alias , & #x 2318 ; + L. Open the Info of the created alias folder , & #x 2318 ; + I. Click the button Select new Original Press & #x 2318 ; + & #x 21E7 ; + G to enter a custom path . Enter your path , e.g. Rename the Alias folder .
2 solutions to color tag files : <URL> <URL>
Real FullScreen applications will normally run on the Primary Display and they will rarely allow you to configure that . Some applications , however , are running in a " false " full screen , and are just " maximized " applications on top of everything , including the dock and the MenuBar . Some of the latter can be moved by applications like SizeUp and similar ( note the usage of the word ' some ' ) . In order to change what your primary display is , you have to go to System Preferences - > Display and the click on the " Arrangement " Tab . And then you have to click and drag the white menubar to the display you want to make primary . Take a look at the attached picture . Remember you have to click on the white square representing the Menu Bar and drag it to the other . The consequences of doing that is that your Dock and your Menu Bar will be moved onto the other Display .
No , you do not have to purchase OS X more than once . If you are referring to OS X Lion and Mountain Lion , both of which were distributed from the App Store , one purchase is enough for every Mac that you own or control . ( see Apple 's EULA for this ) Additionally , Lion and Mountain Lion have <URL> , which means that a drive that fails or any new drive installed without OS X will be automatically connected to the Internet and installed with a fresh copy of your respective OS . Additionally , Apple has their own <URL> for making USB drives for physical media recovery solutions , or you can use <URL> . Make sure to read LionDiskMaker 's FAQ ( in the link provided ) , as this answers crucial questions concerning the application 's usage .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
EDIT 3 : Yes ! Since the release of 10.10.4 , <URL> called , allowing users to activate TRIM also on unsupported disks . So now the ultimate and final answer is : / EDIT 3 EDIT 1 : Finally I found a way ! Apparently there is a neat trick hidden in the tool as <URL> says . So in the future I will boot into Single User Mode ( press ⌘ + S at boot screen ) from time to time and issue the command . It will check the disk and finish with the message / EDIT 1 EDIT 2 : So there is a new tool called <URL> that specializes on exactly that problem . It has a manual TRIM command and helps you turning Yosemite 's kext signing on and off . / EDIT 2 : Furthermore , I read about <URL> which would somewhat accomplish what I was originally asking for . This Windows ( Bootcamp partition required ) tool will rewrite all data of partitions or an entire disk . This approach seems a little less painful than wiping my SSD and restoring it from a backup . However , it also comes with the downside of doing an additional write cycle .
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
To enter or exit Fullscreenmode of your VM you can press [ Command ] + [ Control ] + [ F ] .
RTF table support is quite limited in TextEdit . If the column you want to get rid of is not the last column in the table ( in which case <URL> is your best option ) you can try the procedure below : Let 's say you want to delete column " c " below : Hold down Option to mark the contents of the column ( note that the cursor changes shape to a cross ) : Now you can either : Press Delete to delete its contents : Position the cursor in every empty cell and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) : until you have deleted all of them : or : Press Merge in Format > Table ... : Select the contents of the column and delete them by pressing Delete : Place the cursor in the empty column and press the fndelete key combination ( you can also use the delete ⌦ key , but you will have to rearrange columns later ) to delete it . I wish it were more straightforward , but unfortunately it is n't .
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
Go to System Preferences → Printers &amp; Scanners and set Default printer to Last printer used .
Click View menu > Full Screen at the very top of the screen . Or press Command-2 .
You can and you ca n't at the same time . Safari will load the PDF automatically and display it but it will offer a " Open In " button where you can send the PDF to another application if it is configured by the developer to accept PDFs ( eg . iBooks , GoodReader , etc. ) At present there is no way to direct it directly to another application unless that application will take a URL you could copy and paste .
I would n't go playing with kexts , they do n't like being dragged around . You 'll end up with a kernel panic &amp; have to pick it apart in single user mode - let 's leave that kind of thing to the hackintosh kiddies . LCC comes with an uninstaller , in Applications/Utilities which would be a far better bet .
No , but you can get the same effect as I use this app to keep my mac running for a back up at night time <URL>
Due to SiriKit API limitation , Siri can send a message only to a sigle " entity " , which could be a contact or an existing group but , actually , you ca n't write a message to multiple entities in a single action .
In iOS 7 : Double tap the home button Scroll to the app you want to force quit Flick up on the app 's window .
end question
start question
Full size keyboard with built in stand for iPhone ?
The best solution I 've found for this is the <URL> with an Apple bluetooth keyboard . while it is n't the most stable setup it works fine for setting the phone on a table along with the keyboard and typing .
If it says it is compatible with iPad , it is compatible with the iPad 1 , iPad 2 , theoretically the iPhone 4/S . I have it .
4:3 or 16:10 or 16:9 is aspect ratio . As for maximum resolution , open Quicktime to do a video recording thru the camera and set the quality to maximum . You do n't have to hit record , just do ⌘ + i for the movie inspector and you will see the recording resolution there . The camera will record at the highest possible resolution it can .
To disable deep sleep , run the following command in Terminal : This is a description of " standby " ( deep sleep ) from the pmset man page : Battery savings depend on how much time your Mac spends in standby . While in standby mode , your Mac consumes 0 power , it 's as if it is shut down ( note : not taking Power Nap into consideration ) . My personal recommendation would be to set the " standbydelay " value to something bigger . 2 hours , for example . This means that if you open the lid back in less than 2 hours , your Mac would be in regular sleep and wake up instantly . If longer than 2 hours , your Mac would enter standby mode and consume no power , and waking up will take a bit longer . Example for 2 hours :
Try CtrlF2 - that should highlight the Apple-symbol on the main menubar . edit : The cursor keys and Enter then allow you to navigate , drill-down and ultimately select an item - just as you can on Windows . also - ca n't claim credit for this , I learnt it here on the site ! <URL>
Chrome keeps the plugin in : For me current_version is 16.0.912.63 Firefox uses Adobe mainstream version of Flash player , which is installed in : The size difference is quite big ( 35MB mainstream against 16MB Chrome version ) . I actually tried to make such trick by making symbolic link to chrome version in place of mainstream version , but Firefox did n't like that ( did not show any content where flash should be ) . Looks like it 's not that simple as it is in Linux . EDIT : It turns out that it actually is that simple : Copy Chrome 's Flash plugin , to and they both work .
Terminal has n't been updated for nearly a year now , so unfortunately there are some imperfections as things change in iOS . But for this case , though , I believe the escape key is actually controlled by SpringBoard , not any apps , which means Terminal ca n't capture and send the escape key to the command-line program . The <URL> has information on keyboard shortcuts , and it says that the key shortcut for escape is Ctrl + [ ( • + [ on the virtual keyboard ) . However , if my assumptions above are correct , the only way to use the real escape key would be to write a tweak to redirect the escape command to Terminal .
The only reason it would not last the hour would be if you did n't have room on the device to store the audio file . Bearing this in mind before you conduct an interview make sure you have enough memory to last . For a one hour recording you will need about 160mb of free disc space
Check in the menubar - > View - > Previous Document/Next Document . The shortcut for Previous Document seems to be altcmd [ and for Next Document altcmd ] on an US-keyboard . On my ( german ) keyboard I use altcmd5 and altcmd6 though .
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
Macs work just fine with non-Apple keyboards . Alt becomes option , and the Windows key becomes the command key . And if you want to rearrange them , you can easily do so in the System Preferences : However , I prefer to use Apple keyboards with my Mac as they have buttons on the top to control expose , volume , and pause/rewind/fastforward of media playback . Apple keyboards also have the command key better positioned for keyboard shortcuts than the Windows key is on regular keyboards .
I 've found a method that works . I noticed that double-clicking on a dock icon will switch to a full screen application 's space , even if " When switching to an application , switch to a Space with open windows for the application " is turned off in Mission Control 's system preferences . It 's possible to make an AppleScript that utilizes this , even if the dock is hidden : Save this to an scpt file , and then bind it to a keystroke using an application like BetterTouchTool . Since it uses OS X 's accessibility API it will require whichever application is invoking it to have permission to remote control the computer ( in System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy > " Privacy " tab > Accessibility ) . This does have one limitation that I 'm aware of , which is that it only consistently works if the application has no other open windows on other spaces . Otherwise this will toggle between the various spaces that the application 's windows are occupying . Fortunately my use case involves an application that does n't have any other open windows so it satisfies my requirements .
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
OK , I 've found the answer . You can assign keyboard shortcuts to any Word 2011 command . Go to Tools , then Customize Keyboard . Choose Format category . Find GrowFont and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . Find ShrinkFont and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . I assigned CMD+SHIFT+A rrow keys ( up to grow , down to shrink ) . They make no conflicts to me , and they are Word only . These two single keyboard shortcuts make worlds of difference when editing docs .
Siri is only available on the iPhone 4S and only fully supported within the United States at the moment . Unfortunately the page <URL> on Siri does not make that extremely clear , apart from only mentioning the iPhone 4S . I ca n't find an official source on the Apple site other then that page that specifically says Siri is only available on the 4S . Siri supports various languages , however some functionality , like local business searches , will only work in the United States at the moment .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
Update : The following rate plan is no longer available . AT&amp;T has a $ ( 25 +5 ) / month GoPhone service plan that works with an iPhone that you acquire yourself . The $ 25/month GoPhone service provides 250 minutes ( extra cost $ 0.10 / minute ) . The $ 5/month data package provides 50 MB data ( extra costs $ 5/50MB ) . To save 10 % , do n't buy credit directly from AT&amp;T . Instead , purchase a discounted electronic refill card such as the <URL> for $ 90 and paste the card number into the AT&amp;T GoPhone website . This brings the actual total cost to $ 27/month for base usage . There are also the one-time costs of a GSM-compatible iPhone ( e.g. used from eBay , either unlocked or locked to AT&amp;T ) and an <URL> ( $ 4 ) . Setup involves <URL> and activating the SIM card . If you need more than 50 MB data , there is the $ 40/month plan , which has 500 minutes and 200 MB data ( $ 36/month after 10 % off ) . Per the <URL> , you could in theory buy the $ 60/month plan for one month , and use it to buy 1 GB data packages for $ 10 each , then switch back to the $ 25/month plan and keep the data from expiring using a $ 5 for 50 MB auto-refill . However , the $ 25/month rate plan has an undocumented data package cap of 150 MB ; data above that is lost when you switch rate plans .
These search terms : bluetooth mouse , os x Most Bluetooth mice work well with OS X.
I figured this out : I had a problem that my font got changed size 11 , and changing back to 13 did n't fix the default - the next email would go back to 11 The solution is this : Type some text and highlight it . But instead of changing the font in the pulldown above the editing window ( which wo n't change the default ) , so this instead : With the text selected , in the top menu select Format > Font > Bigger or Smaller , till it get the size you want . ( You can also do this by hitting Command + or Command - . ) Oddly , that fixes the default , while using the normal size toggle does n't .
Click View menu > Full Screen at the very top of the screen . Or press Command-2 .
end question
start question
How can I get Terminal to accept mouse clicks the way PuTTY does ( eg inside elinks ) ?
I do n't think this is possible on Terminal app . But , if you want this functionality you should try a Terminal alternative like <URL> , where you can do it with ⌘ + click .
Numbers seems to use the decimal separator selected in System Preferences : I did n't find any way to use both comma and period as decimal separators though . Note that if you change the region from the menu at the top , it also affects things like the default values of locale variables in Terminal and iTerm .
It must be about the batteries but for what I 've experienced so far it 's not about energy , but about their length , at a very slight scale . Since two days I had this problem again - it occured like almost 10 times this morning . So I removed the battery cover , and put a flat piece of folded paper towel upon the batteries , in a way that when I put the cover back again , it is slightly bent , just what it needs to ensure a firm pressure on the batteries , so they wo n't move at all . My conclusion is : problem solved . tl ; dr : you can fix Apple 's 80 $ mouse with 2 sheets of toilet paper
No . Like all iOS applications coming pre-installed , Newsstand can not be removed from an iOS device . See the <URL> for corroboration .
There is no way I can think of to use AppleScript to filter messages directly , but I guess you could go the ugly route of redirecting " All Messages " to an AppleScript and then handling them from there back to Mail.app . ==== Update : To give you a better idea of what I ´ m talking about , you ´ ll have to create a new rule with condition " All Messages " and execute an Applescript . For example to check for the subject , you ´ ll want something similar to this : Note that of course you could easily use a statement here to use whatever command line tool you want to compare the subject with a regexp , like and so on .
As far as I know , every emacs under the sun can run in a terminal : Change the path , of course , if your emacs resides elsewhere . If this is too long to type , even with tab completion , you can create a symlink to the executable , or make an alias for your shell . Look to <URL> for a precompiled modern Emacs for OS X.
You can install it using <URL> . Just type the following : If you do n't have homebrew installed , you can simply do it by typing :
You could use the one that 's built into <URL> ... ( which is a viable replacement for Terminal anyway , if you do n't know it yet )
Try option-click , that is , click with option pressed . This works on the command line and also in screen editors , such as and . option-click just sends the appropriate escape sequences to move the cursor to anywhere in the terminal screen . ( To see this working , try it with . )
No - since the IPA file only contains the compiled project , the source code ca n't be obtained from this . Certain iOS apps are open source - you can obtain the source code for those apps separately .
The App Store found in iTunes is only for iPhone/iPod/iPad apps . Mac apps can be found on the <URL> . Angry Birds is available for Mac for <URL> . You can also play for free online at <URL> . Note that iPhone and iPad apps are not linked to desktop Mac apps , so when you buy an app for an iPhone or iPad , it does not come with a Mac version and there is no guarantee that a Mac version is even available . Sometimes apps are available on both the iOS ( iPhone/iPad ) App Store and the separate Mac App Store , as is the case for Angry Birds .
It turns out Yosemite enables mouse acceleration by default . it can be disabled by typing this in terminal : After changing this setting in Terminal , you 'll need to logout and log back in to your Mac . Relaunching Finder will work too ( option + right-click on Finder icon in dock - > Relaunch )
After you open the Show Fonts window , you can press Ctrl + F6 to bring focus to the floating Fonts window . To return focus to the window you were in , you can press Ctrl + F4 . On a laptop , you 'll also need to hold Fn when you press the above keyboard shortcuts unless you go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " . After you move focus to the Fonts window , you can press Tab and Shift + Tab to cycle focus through the different columns and the search field .
Double clicking your source files in the Navigator pane should make them appear in new tabs .
Mac OS does not store anything anywhere . , which is the shell that is run in the terminal , does store the command history . The terminal command history is stored in a hidden file in your user directory called This means the file is : You have to enable " Show System Files " to see it ( from the " View " menu in finder ) . The file is just a textual list of everything you type in the shell . You can open it in TextEdit , or your editor of choice . You should probably close to flush any recent changes into the file before making changes , or it may get overwritten from a version has in memory .
The Recovery Partition does not get updated . Once the partition is created , OS X Recovery downloads the latest of your OS X version from Apple . Extracted from Apple 's <URL> : Reinstalling OS X Lion or OS X Mountain Lion via OS X Recovery requires broadband access to the Internet via Wi-Fi or an Ethernet connection . OS X is downloaded over the Internet from Apple when OS X Recovery is used for reinstallation .
The temperature shown does come from the Weather App . Small bits of data on the watch face are known as complications . Tapping the temperature on the watch face will open the Weather app thus revealing the source of the data . The watch gets the data from your iPhone which , in turn , uses location and data from the Internet . You may find more useful information in the <URL> .
For that kind of things I use <URL> . I have a very easy way to filter PDF contents based on rules . The below image contains a rule that I use to organise my invoices . Hazel keeps watching a folder , and acts on every new file there based on your defined rules .
Depending on how your System prefs are set , F3 will do a variety of window-juggling tasks ... If Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard is set to default , with " Use all F1 , F2 ... " unchecked then they will work as stated , if it 's checked you will need to add the Fn key to each of these commands . F3 will toggle Mission Control - all windows of all apps &amp; Desktops spread out so you can see them . Cmd ⌘ F3 will toggle desktop view only . Ctrl ⌃ F3 will show all windows of only the frontmost app * [ this is likely to be the closest to what you need . ] Shift ⇧ F3 will do the same as just F3 ... only really really slowly [ for presentations etc ] Opt ⌥ F3 will bring up Mission Control prefs , where you can tweak other behaviour . You can also go directly to a given tab by right-clicking the app icon in the Dock , though it only shows the frontmost tab 's title for each window .
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
end question
start question
How do I link text boxes in iBooks Author ?
Using the Botany sample , the text boxes seem to work as expected with the caveat that you have to intentionally click on one of the four corner handles of the text box to make the blue linking triangles appear . I took a <URL> showing the controls reacting to mouse events . From there , linking works as expected from the perspective of Pages .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
There is a new Apple Support Forum for iBooks Author <URL>
On Mac , Shift + left click open a link on webpage in a new window .
This function does n't exists in . It does n't exist within either . It might be really usefull to read log files with very long lines or output of commands as . The wrapping render them unreadable . I suggest you to fill a feedback about this function on : <URL> To make it a winning improvment proposal I suggest you to ask for an horizontal scrollbar so as to be able to display the text which is beyond the right border .
TextEdit > Preferences > Open and Save Check " RTF-files as RTF-code instead of formated text " and reopen the file .
<URL> can do this quickly . See ? Just click the blur button in the side bar and draw over your image to obscure things . Please note that this app saves files to Evernote by default which can be a problem for sensitive content . You may want to disable it by not signing into your Evernote account or by making the following setting changes : Set to Uncheck
There is and , in fact , I stumbled upon this the other day . Both my wife and I rejoiced ! To view the time of your texts , simply swipe your finger gently to the left . While you hold down your finger , your texts will shift to the left , and time stamps will be revealed on the right .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
This <URL> recommends a bookmarklet that you can install that allows you to tap an image to display its alt text . Try that - works great for me on my iPhone .
One way to ensure all your email goes out as UTF-8 is to include a Unicode dingbat or similar character in every message , as part of your signature or otherwise .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
If you quit the application and re-start it , that seems to resolve any devices that connect and get missed when you plug them in after the application has launched and enumerated the connected USB devices . Even if you have iTunes and Xcode and other apps running , I 've not seen Image Capture fail to recognize connected devices if you restart the program and I have certainly seen it miss device connects on occasion when other apps are running and want to talk with an iOS device .
There is a convenient way of making your Mac speak any selected text . Open System Preferences . Select Speech . Select the Text to Speech tab if it is not already selected . Check the box for Speak selected text when the key is pressed and provide a key combination of your choice . You can now use the key combination to speak selected text system-wide .
Yes , in iOS 8 you can set a limit to the time period of the messages . So , not an actual amount - like the 200 messages on your Android - but you can limit it through Settings > Messages > Keep Messages menu option where you 'll see the following flavors : Forever 1 Year 30 Days
Apparently you can ! If you want to try this out for yourself , here is the navigation to get to the setting : Enabling AssistiveTouch : Settings App > General > Scroll Down to Accessibility > Scroll Down to AssistiveTouch ' Toggle on AssistiveTouch . Switching to Landscape : Lock the device in portrait mode Press Floating Square > Device > Rotate Screen > Left/Right <URL> ... ... ... ... . .
Tap , and hold the image ; then choose " copy , " open a new browser window , and paste into the address bar .
Yes , in both the iBooks and Kindle apps , you can search the full text ( excluding text in images ) of the book you are currently reading . Here 's how to do that in each app : iBooks app While reading a book , tap the screen . A magnifying glass icon becomes visible in the top right , along with other controls . Clicking the magnifying glass icon brings up a search box . After entering your search term in the box , iBooks presents a list of results from the current book , underneath the search box . Kindle app Similarly , while reading a book , tap the screen . At the bottom a magnifying glass icon will become visible . It works much like the iBooks search feature . What about searching across all books ? If you wanted to know whether you can enter a search term at the top-level of these apps and have them search across all books stored in the app : No , currently neither iBooks nor the Kindle app have such a feature . However , I have seen this capability on the Kindle device itself -- I own a Kindle keyboard model and there is a " search my items " option available that will search all books on the device for a given term .
Unfortunately I 'm unaware of any way to do this without a workaround . Here it is : Go to preferences - > signatures and create one that uses the font color you want to use . You have to select the text , right-click , go under font and pick the color from there ( at least on my Lion machine ) Set that signature as your default When you compose a new message , put your cursor on the beginning of the line that the signature is on , hit enter a few times , and when you start typing your message it will be in that font/color . There will be a blank line at the top that is formatted black , which you can backspace to delete , just make sure you 've started typing something first or it will set it back to black .
One of the best apps I 've found is <URL> . It has a Spotlight importer as well as the app itself . * It 's free as well as being open source . Only issue I 've had with it is that sometimes long " m dashes " , like -- , will not be present , and instead the two words will be run together . ( Though , I 've looked at the source code myself , and it appears to actually be a problem with , the open source library that iChm relies on ) . * NOTE : the version of iChm in the link above ( 1.4.2 ) does not have a Spotlight importer , but I 've forked this project on GitHub and added a Spotlight importer in version 1.5 . You can download 1.5 at <URL> . The GitHub project is at <URL> ( it may be a day or so before I 've pushed all of the changes ) .
end question
start question
What is CUPS on port 631 ?
From the <URL> : CUPS is the standards-based , open source printing system developed by Apple Inc. for OS X and other UNIX ® - like operating systems . On OS X it provides local printer services as well as shared printer services for other Macs to access your printer via the service if the printer does n't have its own sharing capabilities . CUPS has become fairly ubiquitous across the Linux/UNIX contingent of OSes as the print server if choice . That open port you found is because printer sharing is turned on on your machine . You can close port via and uncheck .
<URL> - UnityGmer <URL> - UnityWidgets <URL> - DashboardGmer -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Games . <URL> - RetroGmer -- Awesome Retro Gaming <URL> - GameWidgets -- Get Mac OS X Dashboard Games ! <URL> - UnityPlay <URL> - MacGmer <URL> - WidgetGmer -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - GameCentr -- Get everything Mac Gaming ! <URL> - GmerApps <URL> - GmerWidgets -- Mac OS X Dashboard Games <URL> - TheDashboard -- Get Pimping Hot Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - MacWidgets <URL> - DashboardCenter -- Get the best Dashboard Widgets for your Mac <URL> - DashboardClocks -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - DashboardSearch -- Mac OS X Dashboard Search Widgets <URL> - DashboardCandy <URL> - DashboardWidgets <URL> - ClockWidgets -- Get the best Mac OS X Dashboard Clocks <URL> - Pimp my Dashboard -- Get The Best Mac OS X Dashboard Widgets <URL> - Get Mac Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , Updates , Downloads , News ... <URL> - MacSupport <URL> - Mac101 -- Get one to one with your Mac ! <URL> - MacTips -- Get Mac OS X Tips , Tricks , Tutorials , News ... <URL> - OS X Tips <URL> - GarageBand Tips <URL> - DashboardTips -- Get Tips and Tricks for your Mac OS X Dashboard <URL> - MacHelp <URL> - Mac Videos <URL> - iTunesSupport <URL> - SafariSupport <URL> - ChromeSupport <URL> - GoogleSupport <URL> - FirefoxSupport <URL> - AppCenter <URL> - MacWall -- Get beautiful wallpapers for your Desktop <URL> - MacCenter -- Get Mac OS X Tips , News and Apps <URL> - MacApps -- Get Mac Software , Tips and New ... <URL> - MacDesktop -- Get Mac OS X Desktop Enhancements and Customization <URL> - MacDownloads -- Find the most popular downloads for your Mac ! <URL> - DownloadCenter -- Get Mac Downloads , Updates and Support <URL> - MusicCenter -- Get Mac OS X Music Apps , Downloads and Support <URL> - MenuBars -- Get super smart apps for the Mac OS X menu bar ... <URL> - MacSearch -- Everything about search on Mac ! <URL> - DevCenter <URL> - XcodeTips -- Get Xcode Development Tips , Tricks and Guides <URL> - DashcodeTips -- Developer Tips for Dashcode <URL> - iOS Center -- Get iPhone , iPad and iPod Support <URL> - iOS Support -- Apps , News and Tips
Try an app called <URL> , it breaks down your storage usage folder by folder .
To avoid rendering your device unusable due to a bad upgrade file , iOS does some verification of the download before installing ( likely some type of checksum to ensure the download was n't corrupted and it 's for the right device , etc. ) . Given that your install process fails during the verification process , it 's likely that you either got a bad download ( possible , although it should try to re-download if that 's the case ) , or the authentication and verification servers that the installer needs to check against are having some problems ( not unlikely , given the load they 've had since iOS 6 came out ) . Best advice is to just wait it out and try later . However if you 're impatient , you can directly download the update to your computer and update via iTunes ( although if the servers are experiencing issues , it might affect this method as well ) . Steps for a direct update Go to <URL> and download the proper file for your device . With your device connected in iTunes , open the device page , hold down option ( shift on Windows ) and click the Update button . An Open File dialog should appear . Browse to the file you downloaded in step 1 and open it . Your software update should begin normally .
Activity Monitor is a good starting point . At a minimum , you can determine whether your system is becoming CPU-bound when you start the large application . It can also show how system memory is being utilized and whether excessive swapping is taking place . An <URL> notes : Tip : Page outs occur when the Mac has to write information from RAM to the hard drive ( because RAM is full ) . Adding more RAM may reduce page outs . This <URL> has a reference to another good tool - the Shark utility from the Apple Developer Tool Suite : Shark from the Developer Tools suite ( CHUD ) provide even more powerful process inspection capabilities and organizes bottom-up and top-down trees of where your time goes for the entire space of function calls , and is even decent at explaining where the bottlenecks are , sometimes suggesting low-level optimizations . Apple 's <URL> notes : Shark is an advanced tool for sampling or tracing a single application or all running applications . Like Instruments , Shark provides a set of powerful analysis tools with an easy-to-use interface to help you gather performance data . Shark helps you isolate problems quickly by providing a rich set of data-mining features and is an indispensable tool for finding performance bottlenecks . It provides optimization tips and help with analyzing assembly-level operations . Because it traces operations down at the kernel-level of the system , Shark can also provide you with tremendous insight about the behavior of your application relative to the rest of the system . Among the types of operations you can perform in Shark are the following : Statistical sampling of your application over a period of time System-level tracing Malloc tracing Static analysis L2 Cache profiling Processor bandwidth analysis Java code analysis In addition to basic sampling , Shark also offers the windowed time facility feature for several of its sampling options . The windowed time facility tells Shark to record and process a finite buffer of the most recently acquired samples . This feature lets Shark record data continuously and for long periods of time in the background . You can then direct Shark to stop sampling only after something interesting occurs in your code and to display the samples related to that interesting behavior . Thus , you can use this feature to determine what part of your program 's execution is interesting after it occurs . For a quick example of how to use Shark , see " <URL> . " For detailed information about Shark , see <URL> . The page also lists a number of other tools in the developer tool suite that can be used to monitor your system 's performance and hopefully pin down any potential bottlenecks before you buy the second SSD .
<URL> ftw <URL> You can get simpler than this , and just use the power from the usb port to power a breadboard LED device . You should really have a basic understanding of electronics , be able to read a schematic , etc. , before you do this . Its not that you will electrocute yourself , but you may lose the use of the usb port .
The power button only powers ON/OFF the keyboard , it does n't power off the computer . To power off your computer using the keyboard , you might want to use any of the following : Reference : ⌘ ( Command key ) - On some Apple keyboards , this key also has an Apple logo ( ) ⌃ ( Control key ) ⌥ ( Option key ) - " Alt " may also appear on this key ⏏ ( Eject ) ⇧ ( Shift ) ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Show shutdown dialog ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Put the computer to sleep ⌃ Control + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer . ⌃ Control + ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer . ⇧ Shift + ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Sleep the display , but not the computer . ( thanks to <URL> )
Your question is like that old Sesame Street song , " Which one of these things does n't belong ? " . Bootcamp is a way to run Windows via dual booting , which means that when you are running Windows you are not running OS X . This is good for when you need maximum performance ( e.g. Windows gaming ) but very inconvenient when what you need is to be able to run Windows and OS X applications at the same time . The other solutions you mentioned are all virtualization solutions that run Windows on top of OS X , letting you run a mix of applications . Of these , I agree with Wheat that Parallels and Fusion are both very good , and it 's really hard to say one is better than another . Try them out ( there are trial versions ) and see which you prefer . Or just go with pricing ; I run Parallels because I got a good price on it as part of a software bundle . Virtualbox , on the other hand , is free and good at the basics , but it is MUCH less integrated into OS X. For example , it does not map your OS X documents folder into the Windows document folder to enable seamless sharing of data between the two environments . My take is that Virtualbox is good if you simply want to play around with Windows on a Mac , but if you have a real-world need for doing so , you 're much better off spending the money for Fusion or Parallels .
The font used in the Console.app on macOS Sierra is the font . This can be found in More versions can be found in Xcode8 directories for example here :
The <URL> is a great device for sound input and output via USB .
Apple seem to have removed/hidden some of the more advanced options from the Airport Utility interface in version 6 and this is likely one of them . Unless there 's a workaround someone else can suggest to make such options visible again , on 10.7 ( Lion ) , I 've been getting around this by using the <URL> . You can find the Dynamic Global Hostname option by clicking Manual Setup > AirPort > Base Station tab > Edit - though I 'm sure you already know that :) Note that I have the <URL> and the Airport Utility 5.6 does complain that This version of AirPort Utility does n't support this AirPort wireless device and might improperly configure the device if you continue to use it when you try to configure it . It seems to read all the information correctly but I would urge you to export your configuration first and/or not have anything you ca n't put back after a full reset , if things go wrong .
An iTunes Card is Apple 's version of a Gift Card . It comes in a different range of values ( $ 10 , $ 15 , $ 25 , $ 50 or $ 100 ) and it can be used to redeem any item of the iTunes Store , App Store , iBooks Store , and Mac App Store . An iTunes Card Generator is a software which allegedly generates these gift codes , so that you can acquire anything from the aforementioned stores without actually paying anything .
This is your <URL> . The number of lit dots indicates how much battery you have left .
The iPhone 7 series is not waterproof -- no smartphone is . According to Apple , the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus have an IP67 rating for dust and water-resistance . You can read more about how IP ratings work <URL> . In a nutshell , as far as water is concerned , an IP rating of 67 means the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus can be fully submerged in up to 1 meter of water for up to 30 minutes without being damaged . So , will an iPhone 7 die if it takes a brief dip in water that 's deeper than 1 metre ? No . Will it survive for over a half hour or so in about 5cm ( 2 " ) of water ? Yes . What this all means is that an iPhone 7 will survive a water accident . As for protecting the Lightning port from water , while I have n't personally seen inside an iPhone 7 yet , what I can tell you is how smartphone manufacturers make their USB and headphone ports water resistant . Typically , they seal all parts that could let water in . This means the SIM card tray has a built-in rubber seal to stop moisture getting inside the smartphone , as do external buttons , MicroUSB or Lightning ports and 3.5 mm headphone jacks . The charging and headphone ports are also fixed in place in a way that very tightly presses them up against the inside of the frame . Another area of vulnerability are speakers . Air and audio need to pass through the speaker to outside of the frame , but the ' grille ' needs to prevent water from getting in . Typically manufacturers use a screen made from an incredibly tight mesh that prevents water getting through without external force . That 's why smart watches are n't usually water resistant to 50m ( not even Samsung 's latest offering ! ) . The Apple Watch 2 achieves this amazing feat by using the speakers themselves to eject the water . No doubt other manufacturers will copy this process . Finally , as a point of interest , the iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus were also designed to be water resistant ( although not officially ) . I 've seen inside these and the difference compared to earlier models is obvious . You can read more about this <URL> . [ EDIT ] This edit addresses the issue raised by Adam Rice in their comment , namely that my original answer did n't cover the issue of what prevents water inside the charging port from damaging an iPhone 7 by conducting electricity between its connectors ? As I mentioned in my original answer , rubber seals are used to stop moisture getting inside the smartphone via the sim tray , external buttons , charging ports , etc. . However , what I forgot to mention is that these phones have a moisture sensor in the charging port that protects the phone from electrical short circuits and damage . This basically means that the phone will not accept a charge if the sensors detect moisture . Likewise , electrical current between the connectors is also prevented if moisture is detected by the sensors . Also , it is worth noting that having a water-resistant smartphone is a bit like having a diver 's watch that is water-resistant to 200m . The instructions of such watches tell you not to press any of the buttons while it 's under water . Likewise , with a smartphone , do n't plug it in to a power source while it 's under water .
This <URL> you 're running . Leopard : <URL> Tiger : <URL> Newer Macs can use ... Snow Leopard/Lion : <URL>
It 's 6 song skips per hour for each station . I also have iTunes Match turned on and I 'm still limited to 6 skips .
It 's the " Inactivity Sound , " called " Bass , " that <URL> plays by default when you have n't been using it for a few hours . And I thought my computer was overheating ! I ca n't understand why anyone would make a web app that non-obviously plays a repeating , scary sound on repeat hours after the user last interacted with it . Terrible . Anyway , that 's one mystery solved . <URL>
While Apple 's <URL> will let you connect one of these external monitors , there 's also the <URL> which will connect two external DVI displays ( I 've never seen or used one , ymmv ) .
From what I can tell , wired memory belongs to the kernel , the innermost core of Mac OS X. It 's many layers removed from the icons in the menubar , which are just ordinary apps showing themselves in an odd way . Wired memory is used for some of the core functions of the operating system -- things like keeping track of all the applications on your system , or open files and network connections , or chunks of memory used by various drivers . The " page tables " that form a map of your system 's memory are also stored in wired memory , and a system with more memory needs larger page tables . I suspect that the memory used by the integrated video chips in most Macs is wired as well , but I ca n't find anything that says that outright . In any case , much of this information is needed to manage and access memory , and so it ca n't itself be swapped out to disk ! To understand why , imagine an enormous library . Think of , for example , the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford , which has eleven million printed items . There 's no way you could possibly fit all that stuff into a single building -- certainly not one in the middle of a university campus . So instead , imagine that the librarians construct a vast warehouse . ( The real Bodleian Library has about forty sub-libraries of various descriptions , plus storage for really rare books , but this is a thought experiment . ) Most of the books are kept in the warehouse , but anything that 's been used recently is kept in the library . If you show up at the library looking for a book , and it 's in the stacks there , you can read it immediately . If not , ask a librarian and the book you want will be transported from the warehouse and given to you the next day . The information in wired memory , then , would be things like the card catalog , keys to the book delivery trucks , and maps of the route to the warehouse . If you stored these things in the warehouse , you could never retrieve books to bring them back to the library -- so they must be kept in the library at all times , lest the whole system break down . Anyway , getting back to practical considerations : wired memory is basically used by your computer for internal bookkeeping of various sorts . You should n't worry about it . And do n't worry if you have lots of " inactive " memory and little " free " memory , either . Inactive memory is basically memory that Mac OS is keeping something in on the off chance it 's needed again ; if your system needs that memory for something else , it 'll be converted to free memory without any performance hit . To extend the library metaphor , imagine that the library keeps books that have been recently used in the stacks . The space is there in the stacks ; there 's no use leaving it empty , so you might as well keep the books you already have there . There 's no harm in it , and sometimes someone will be able to pick up a book immediately that he would otherwise have had to wait for . Similarly , inactive memory can only speed things up ; it ca n't hurt your computer , so do n't worry about it being too high . Really , you should n't worry about your memory use unless wired + active starts getting close to the 8 GB in your computer . That 's when you could get into trouble , because that 's when Mac OS will start consuming disk space to add " extra " memory , damaging performance considerably . Otherwise , you might as well have something in that memory . Ultimately , unused memory is just a waste of power -- if you have it , you might as well put it to use .
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
end question
start question
Export an email from Outlook to PDF ?
You can use the " Save as PDF " option in the Print dialog ( drop down is in lower left corner of the dialog window ) .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
Found it ! In Preview , open the Inspector ( Command-I ) Select the Crop and Rotate tab , whose icon looks like a small ruler . Change the units as required Now use the select area tool and the corresponding ( printed ) dimensions will be shown in the Inspector . As an alternative , you can also download <URL> , which displays a nice ruler on screen , though requires care in both setting the ruler DPI and ensuring that the PDF is viewed at 100 % size .
Yes to all your questions . OS X ' Quartz PDFContext generator embeds fonts ( <URL> ) . I could n't find any document that expressly states this ( it 's implied in <URL> , for instance ) but I have been sending out PDF proofs with fonts not installed on the recipient 's computer long enough to know it does . As long as you use the OS X routines for PDF generation , i.e. go through either the " Save as PDF " dialog or an option upstream of that , like Pages ' " Export " dialog , your fonts will be embedded -- Microsoft 's Office suite is no exception . Anything that uses its own PDF generation routines ( like <URL> ) , however , might or might not embed fonts , depending on its settings . Finally , as already stated , " embedded " means " contained in the file " , which in turn means " viewable on other computers without the font installed " .
I updated my answer because all of it was wrong : You will want to use an applescript for your preference setups . Here is the code for some of them and screenshots of the actual plist so you get an idea of the options possible . IF this does not apply straight away , you might need to restart the computer . Do n't forget to save applescript as an Application . NOT script Trackpad/Mouse In here , it varies . It is either for mouse , for bluetooth mouse , and for trackpad The example above changes right click to be left click as well Keyboard Unfortunately , I could not find a preference for keyboard . I will keep on searching though . Dock This was just an example . Switch autohide with whatever option and YES with value or boolean . Booleans are YES and NO ( unlike in scripts " true " " false " ) I put a picture on the end so you can see all the possible options for all the options . Disable Dashboard I also could not find how to . Though it is presumably in Dock options : Mouse : Bluetooth Mouse
For Mac OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.0 : Click on the " Calendars " button on the main window to show the sidebar of calendars . Right mouse click on the calendar you want to ignore alerts from &amp; choose " Get Info " Check ON " Ignore Alerts " &amp; click " OK " Seems as thought you do n't have to globally set this preference , you can now selectively choose which calendars have alerts or not , through iCal .
Unfortunately , there is no way to do this in Apple Mail . It only works for messages which you are replying to ( they automatically use the same outgoing address which received the original message ) . There is no hook in AppleScript , nor an option in Automator by which to make this happen . If it were possible , as of right now , it would still require a third-party plugin , which I have not been able to find either . So unfortunately , the answer is now . Note : Also , if you select the inbox of the account from which you want to send the message , then compose , Mail will automatically use that account 's email address for sending , unless you change it . Not quite as helpful as what you were hoping for , but at least something worth considering . Good luck and happy mailing !
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
That 's a catch 22 situation . You want to create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created when you create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created ... If you mean a new Apple ID with an old iCloud email , then no , that 's not possible .
You ca n't disable it , but you can re-map the shortcut so you 're far less likely to hit it . Open System Preferences , go to Keyboard > Shortcuts ( tab ) > App Shortcuts ( Left field ) . Click the " + " , select " Microsoft Outlook " from the " Application : " list , change " Menu Title : " to " Send , " and change the shortcut to something you are n't likely to hit accidentally , such as Shift + CMD + Option + G , " or similar . Close and re-open Outlook . Enjoy not accidentally sending unfinished eMail !
I would install aspell with a package manager like brew and then run that on the . tex file . Unless I 'm mistaken emacs has support for aspell built-in . You can also turn on spell checking in your terminal ( iterm2 ) or emacs GUI .
At first glance it is n't possible in a stock installation of iOS 6 and using the default mail app . If you jailbreak your phone , it appears that at least one tweak , Mail Enhancer Pro , will allow you to have rules on your iPhone itself . However , there are a number of good options , other then jailbreaking , that may work . First , if you use an IMAP email account , then you may be able to use your computer to route the mail . The changes will obviously reflect on the device . For example , if you have a Mac , then you can use Mail.app to create a rule to forward particular emails to the address you desire . Second , depending on who provides your email , you may be able to route the mail there . I would say Gmail is an example of that . If you go to your Gmail account and navigate to settings , you can set up rules in there . iCloud mail provides rules as well . If you go to <URL> - > Mail - > Settings ( icon in the upper left corner ) . You can select the Rules tab and set up actions that would work apply to the mail you receive to your @me . com , @icloud . com , or @mac . com account .
I can only say that this is true . Mail.app has to be open to get notifications . A workaround : Open Mail , and close it with the red dot ( or command + w ) . So the blue point under the icon in the Dock is still there . So you have no window open but mail is still getting emails . There is no app or anything there yet to fix this " problem " .
Finally found the solution to this problem . Outlook provides a custom importer to Spotlight to index email . It is typically found in : " / Applications/Microsoft Office 2011/Microsoft Outlook.app / Contents/Library/Spotlight / Microsoft Outlook.mdimporter " , You can use the command to list all installed importers . When I did that I saw that the importer from the old installation of Outlook was still installed because it was still in the trash can . When I tried to manually import an email using the command I saw that it was failing to load the importer from the trash . Emptying the trash fixed the issue . Wish there was a way to selectively empty the trash without deleting everything . Once I emptied the trash , I had to force Spotlight to reindex the email folder by adding the folder to the Privacy tab of Spotlight System Settings , and then removing it again . After spotlight reported the indexing was complete ( via the Spotlight dropdown in the upper right ) the email was all indexed again . Hope that helps !
You can do this with Markdown.pl and htmldoc ( 1 ) , both of which can be installed with <URL> . The basic flow for making a PDF is : As for your filename-per-page , you coul incorporate echo to add it as an HTML element : And for printing , the lpr ( 1 ) command will send a file to your default printer . Tying this altogether :
As you suspected , Outlook for Mac does use Spotlight 's index files ( as do many other apps , such as Alfred ) . If you 've got Spotlight disabled , search in Outlook is n't going to work either . Spotlight should n't take up any memory really at all if it 's not indexing and/or updating indexes .
Here is one way to get webcal feeds to show up in Outlook 2011 for Mac if you are using Office 365 . Open the Office 365 Web Application Go to My Calendars on the left and right click " Open Calendar " and paste your webcal URL into the " from the Internet " field The calendar ( basecamp or tripit for example ) will now show up both in your Office 365 web app and also in Outlook 2011 for Mac ( assuming you have this set up )
The steps seem strange , but first you must create your appleid using a non Apple address ( note that if you already have an @icloud , @mac , or @me email address that email address is already an Apple ID ) Once your Apple ID has been created , on the device go to Settings > iCloud and flip the mail switch on , you will be prompted there to create your @icloud . com email address . <URL>
The challenge is that Gmail uses " Labels " to attach to messages , and messages can have zero or more than one label , while IMAP puts messages in folders ( Inbox , Trash , etc ) and every message is in one , and only one folder . Thus , when Mail.app tells the Gmail server to delete a message from the Inbox the Gmail server can not reliably tell if it should just remove the " Inbox " label from that message ( leaving it with one fewer label , possibly still having other labels , or maybe no label but still avaialbe in the " All Mail " view ) or if it should more permanentaly remove the message completely from the database . The " fix " is to setup Gmail to not show the messages in multiple IMAP folders ( by turning off the " All Mail " folder ) and to also have the Gmail servers " expunge " the message when the Mail.app tells it so rather than doing it " automatically " , even though that ( default ) setting on the Gmail server seems to imply that the " auto " setting would be what was desired . I have not tested ALL of these settings ( I mostly rely on the " 30 days in the trash " feature of Gmail to empty things : <URL> ) and I have only recently updated to " El Capitan " but things do not seem any different from my Yosemite , Mavericks and earlier experiences . The way the system works seems to be the same using either a " regular " @gmail . com account or a " Goodle Apps for Domains " @yourdomain . com account . I do however have things set so that email does get put into the trash properly on the Gmail side of things , and it looks like there are settings available to delete things immediately and it works on my system in the way I want it too . So the detailed instructions are : At <URL> log in to your account and select the following : " Settings " - > " Forwarding and IMAP " Check " Enable IMAP " For " When I mark a message in IMAP as deleted " Check " Auto-Expunge off - Wait for the client to update the server . " For " When a message is marked as deleted and expunged from the last visible IMAP folder " Check " Immediately delete the message forever " ( I have my system set up to " Move the message to the Trash " and rely on the 30 days mentioned above ) You need to select the " Save Changes " button at the bottom for this to take effect . These settings will only invoke the deletion ( or move to Gmail Trash ) when the message no longer has any Gmail tags associated with it , or in other words , when an IMAP client removes the message from all of the IMAP folders . Since one of the " folders " that can be displayed in a Gmail IMAP client is " All Mail " , just deleting a message from the Inbox of the IMAP client will not cause it to go bye-bye . Thus we need to limit the " Labels " / " Folders " that Gmail exposes as IMAP folders : On Gmail select the following : " Settings " - > " Labels " Check the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for " Inbox " , " Sent Mail " , and " Spam " and UNCHECK the " Show in IMAP " checkbox for all of the other " System Labels " . Any user generated non-system label can be set to " Show in IMAP " . Note that unckecking the " All Mail " " Show in IMAP " checkbox might make a whole bunch of email that has no other labels ( is in no other IMAP folder ) no longer be visible in Mail.app or any other IMAP client . Using the Gmail web interfact to search up these " orphaned " messages and adding the Inbox label or some other label that is shown in IMAP would make them visible again to Mail.app . With the Gmail system set in this manner , I find that the best Mail.app settings to use are to have the " Mail " - > " Preferences " - > " Accounts " set up for the Gmail account in question set so that " Mailbox Behaviors " is set to only " Store on the Server " for the " Sent " and " Junk " mailboxes . I have those two boxes checked , and have the boxes for " Drafts " and " Trash " unchecked . These two need to be unchecked because we have set the Gmail server to not expose those boxes as IMAP folders . I only rarely go to the Gmail web interface , doing almost all of my interactions with Gmail through Mail.app or the iOS Gmail app . Some of these settings might have alternative setups if one did a lot of website interactions . For Mark 's desired outcome of deleting the messages immediately , the above settings should work - when a message is moved or deleted from the Gmail Inbox and Spam folders , it should immediately be deleted from the Gmail server . The message could still be available in Apple 's trash can , but that is not linked to the server 's trash can . ( If the " Move the message to the Trash " setting was set on the Gmail server , the server will move it to the server 's trash and thirty days later it will be gone ) . I do not know if Mail.app will send the " expunge " signal to the Gmail servers immediately , or only after the local Mail.app trash has been emptied , or on some other syncronization schedule . An alternative might be to have the Gmail server expose the server trash an an IMAP folder and have Mail.app store the trash on the server . With the " Immediately delete the message forever " server setting set , this should behave
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
end question
start question
Why do i need a new email account to sync my notes in iCloud ?
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
On my MBA - 10.9.4 the " on my mac " mail folders are in the The Library folder is hidden since OS X Lion , so use the Finder 's " Go To Folder " menu in the " Go " menu and enter that address .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
You need a 10.6 / 10.7 system handy as this does n't work in 10.8 . The method I 've previously used is as follows : Plug your iPhone into your Mac and go into iTunes - > Your Device - > Info tab and choose to Sync notes . This should grab the notes out of the section and dump them into Mail.app . Your notes should appear under the Notes section in Mail.app , but ideally filed under an header . Simply select all the notes from under and drag them into the section . That should upload them all to iCloud and save you some time copying and pasting or fiddling with other software !
No , this does n't work for iCloud email addresses . Just tried it and the email failed to deliver -- the email must be exactly correct .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
Just realized I can copy the videos from iPod in Windows Explorer , like I do with a pendrive .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
You should be able to sync it directly by using the usb . Is it giving you error messages ? What is it saying . Also , you may need to check your sync preferences on the phone settings its self . What version of iOS is installed or is it jail broken ?
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
It seem to be impossible to get rid of this account . What I 've done is : connect to my <URL> ( with my AppleID , the same for the AppStore and other ) go to mail in ( top right ) choose add a rule to redirect all e-mails received at my @me . com adress to my main e-mail . It can take several minutes to work , but I do n't loose anything like that .
iOS Notes syncing works through the IMAP protocol , which in iCloud is integrated into the email service . Although Apple could technically choose to allow for notes syncing without explicitly requiring an email address , they have chosen to make it a part of the email , almost like Notes is its own email folder . You should also be able to sync your Notes using your Gmail account since it is also based on the IMAP protocol :
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
With the caveat that this is just one example of a notes widget , I 've used Junecloud 's <URL> app a bit , and it seems to fit your requirements of a widget that connects to iCloud . I can sync to iCloud or the app provider 's JuneCloud sync . However , Notefile is not a free app ( currently $ 4.99 ) , so you 'll need to look elsewhere if you want a freeware solution . Junecloud also provides an <URL> for mobile devices ( iPad/iPhone/iPod Touch ) for $ 2.99 at the time of this answer .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
As @iampearce answered in the comments : If you 're manually syncing , grab the file from in iTunes and drag it onto the iPod itself . This will force it to copy over , and you 'll be able to see it happen in the progress bar .
Apple has a support document for this : <URL> . It also covers things like de-authorizing your old computer from the iTunes Store etc. .
At an educated guess , I would say the following is happening : Exchange is designed to push - and the exchange server is no doubt pushing to Apple servers - regardless of whether you have push enabled on the iPad or not , it 's just how it works . When you connect to the Apple store , you connect to the Apple notification server ( or renew your connection to it ) and in doing so pick up any mail that has n't been collected from the exchange server yet . I would imagine the same would happen with other push notifications as they pass to the Apple server whether they are enabled on your iPad or not . What would be interesting to test is whether this happens with a conventionally configured Gmail account - which would probably shed more light on what is happening .
The best way is to stop syncing contacts via iTunes and do it all over the air : On your Mac : go to Contacts.app ( or Address Book.app if you 're not on ML ) > Preferences . Under Accounts tab , tick the checkbox " Synchronize with Google " and add your gmail info . On your iPhone : setup a Google Exchange account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendards . Google has a <URL> for that . After that all your contacts are synced over the air and iTunes will stop syncing those when you attach your iPhone .
You have implied the reason in " the massively powerful primary processor " It takes electrical power to produce power in computing . Thus if you need something to be on all the time you want a smaller processor than the main one to save battery power .
end question
start question
It 's possible to forward/reverse a track with Apple EarPods remote ?
To forward a track , double-press and hold the middle button of the remote . To reverse a track , triple-press and hold the middle button of the remote .
We use Apple Configurator to supervise iOS devices and then Meraki MDM to remotely manage them . We push out a webclip and a global HTTP proxy setting to all devices this way . Meraki MDM is free for up to 100 clients , after that you have to pay per client up to and including the first 100 . We were using the Apple OS X server app for awhile and while it does have some great features it is severely lacking in some key areas . You get what you pay for .
Instead of using the finder to copy your files - use a program like ' <URL> ' or ' <URL> ' . This will get you the closest to the two drives being exactly the same . However , I should warn you that when I did this myself , I could not get Time Machine to treat the new drive as if it were the old drive . It insisted on keeping a backup of it as if it were a new drive . ( however , in my case this was the OS internal drive and not an external data drive ) In the end I decided that it was OK that Time Machine did n't know it was the same drive , as I now had two copies of the data ( before time machine even backed up ) from the original flaky drive , and the new drive . I just had time machine back up the drive as if it were brand new . I have n't had any regrets about it . Hope this helps .
Make sure the old Apple TV Remote is out of Bluetooth range , then while in front of the Apple TV set top box press a button on the new remote . This should pair the remote to the Apple TV . If not , try pressing Volume Up and Menu simultaneously on both remotes for 2-3 seconds , new and old , then do the aforementioned steps again with the new remote .
Nope . In the stock keyboard provided by the API , a " Forward Delete " ( as opposed to a Backward Delete/Backspace ) , none of the keys , nor combination therein , provide a Delete keystroke to occur . Your only option , as you now see , is to use an external keyboard to accomplish this . Any other options would just be something else entirely . Like selecting a word , and deleting it , or using replace , etc. .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Sure is . <URL> is an app that takes the place of Growl to catch Growl notifications and reroute them to the Notification Center . One limitation of Hiss , however , is it displays all notifications as coming from Growl , rather than the application that actually generated them .
Apple has a program called <URL> and detects if the cable has a certified chip inside . The chip just says that it 's been officially ' Made For iOS . '
The free <URL> can do this : You can set up complex actions to be triggered by any of the buttons being either pressed or held .
No , pretty sure you wo n't be able to use a Mac server and then connect iOS devices to PCs and prepare them using Configurator remotely . You can add more USB ports using a hub to increase the number you can connect simultaneously .
The MS RDC has a preference menu so that you can customize the shortcuts .
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
Yes ! I had the same problem . Go to Settings → Music → Sort Albums and change this to By Title .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
My understanding is that this is due to the fact that the slide transition takes a certain amount of time - the 15 seconds is the total time the slide is undistrubed on the screen and it allows a certain amount of time for the changover - the way to check this is to set the timing to ' 0 ' and see what happens :)
OS X 10.5 : Go to in , then select at the bottom . newer versions of OS X : Go to in , then click on at the bottom and select .
Remember the <URL> ? Apple did license the technology at that point in time to build an iTunes compatible phone with Motorola , before the iPhone era . The <URL> was one of the other few non-Apple devices compatible with iTunes . There was also the case of the <URL> which supported iTunes syncing ( unlicensed ) , but Apple kept breaking the syncing ( purposedly ? ) with new iTunes versions , forcing users of Palm Pre 's to search for hacks to get it working again . I think this shows that it is technically possible ( even through reverse engineering ) , but Apple is not going to sit by and allow it . This probably is even more true nowadays , as they are fiercely protecting the iTunes/iOS eco-system . You could also use iSync to sync contacts and calendars with many different phone models , but it has gone missing since Mac OS X Lion . Here 's <URL> to install it again though . EDIT : Found a quote from Apple regarding " non-supported " devices , which illustrates their stance : Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software . However , Apple does not provide support for , or test for compatibility with , non-Apple digital media players and , because software changes over time , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players . And here 's a reaction from Apple to Business Week regarding the Palm Pre : iTunes 8.2.1 is a free software update that provides a number of important bug fixes . It also disables devices falsely pretending to be iPods , including the Palm Pre . As we 've said before , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with unsupported digital media players .
Yes , everything you have described is possible . If you have an Airport Express or other airplay destination on your network , the remote app will allow you to select and control the output location . As seen on <URL> Enjoy !
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
There is an easy way to do that right in Gmail . In the settings tab , go to settings and first add a forwarding address under Forwarding and POP/IMAP . Enter the desired forwarding address and confirm it by entering the confirmation code or clicking on the confirmation link . Then go to the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab in settings . On the bottom of the page choose " create a new filter " . In the first line enter the email from the certain sender that you would like to forward , then click on " Create filter with this search " , which will bring you to the next page . Here check the " Forward it to : choose an address " box , and choose the address . That should do it . Gmail has great filters for mails Hope this is helpful , might not be Automator or applescript , but it 's right inside gmail , fast and easy ... cheers
end question
start question
Can I update to OS X 10.8 from OS X 10.7 without doing all softwares updates ?
Yes , I was able to update from 10.7.3 to 10.8 without running software updates ( 10.7.4 ) and Mountain Lion runs great .
The company should have an Apple ID set up . I would recommend that this is registered to a member of the IT team who is most responsible for software purchasing . Then they can download OS X Lion from the app store , and have the license . Is there a business requirement to be running Lion or is this user preference ?
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
This is n't exactly true . They can see the sites you visit but not what the content is if you 're using HTTPS . This means that they can see you 're checking your balance but not what your balance is . This also applies to company network traffic providing they 're not doing MITM which they ca n't do without inserting their own certificate on your computer . I suggest checking the certificates installed on your machine in Keychain Access to see if there 's a certificate installed . You can disable these to disable the relevant services from being accessed through the methods detailed in the information shown by clicking on each service . Disabling these wo n't prevent against third-party software installed on the machine providing similar functionality . Any third-party software could provide functionality such as remote access . I 'm unfamiliar with this specific software but it may be a good idea to research exactly what specific software installed on your machine can do . You can re-enable the firewall , however be careful that this does not block any legitimate traffic that may be required by your work network .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
It is still possible to purchase 10.7 for installing/upgrading on your mac , see my answer at question <URL> : Although you can no longer buy Lion through the App Store or directly by SKU from the online store , you can still order Lion after Mountain Lion was released . I called 1-800-MY-APPLE , it took some time to get through but they told me that I would be able to purchase Lion , OSX 10.7 from them for $ 19.99 . They would send me the physical copy through the mail . [ ... ]
These steps assume that you already have purchased OS X 10.9 through the Mac App Store . Open the Mac App Store Press the Alt Key and hold it during the following steps Click at the purchased tab Scroll to OS X Mavericks Click at the Download button If you already have OS X Mavericks installed , you will be asked if you want to continue Click continue Now , you can release the Alt Key To get the dmg file : 1 . Go to the downloaded install application in the applications folder 2 . Control + click on the installer , and choose Show Package Contents , and choose Show Package Contents . 3 . Navigate to 4 . The file you are looking for is called If you need a file , you have to <URL>
Apple did stop shipping Java as of 10.7 and higher . Neither the JDK nor the JRE come preinstalled . However , the first time you need a JRE , Mac OS X will offer to download and install it for you ( via the Software Update mechanism ) . Similarly , is stubbed in a base OS X install and will trigger the install process . Note that the Apple JRE/JDK is Java 1.6 -- if you need 1.7 or 1.8 , you 'll need to <URL> .
Yes - Mac do not care if the boot drive is connected internally or externally . I usually recommend installing the OS on the new drive with it connected externally since you do n't do the swap until after you know the drive boots externally , but the opposite order is fine . Now , if you have problems , it 's going to be because of hardware issue ( cable , or drive failure ) or possibly the software is n't complete / correct .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
You can install coreutils with . will be linked as . Read the caveats when you install coreutils .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
For free , you can use the <URL> driver . In order to use it , you have to install <URL> first . In the end , you 'll have a prefpane to mount and manage your NTFS drives
<URL> is a Preferences Panel which allows you to edit the default application used for various URL schemes , file extensions , file types and MIME types .
Ran into the same issue . Followed YouTube video of installation in order to figure out the following : Once the disc is booted , select Reinstall OS X . You will then reach the screen where you can not see the Continue button . Using your keyboard , press TAB followed by SPACE . You should then reach the User Agreement screen . Press TAB , TAB , TAB and SPACE . Click the Agree button which should be visible . Click the installation drive and press TAB , TAB and SPACE . This should get you to the point where Lion is installing .
You can always use the terminal command with the option : [ Option - P will ] Overwrite regular files before deleting them . Files are overwritten three times , first with the byte pattern 0xff , then 0x00 , and then 0xff again , before they are deleted . If you 're not handy with the Terminal , just : Open the Terminal.app ( Found in / Applications/Utilities ) . Type and drag the folder which contains the file you want to delete , to the terminal window . Type and hit Enter
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
As far as I know , it 's not possible . The reason is that Power Nap does n't have an API that 3rd party apps can hook into ( so apps could trigger a wake event or be notified when one occurs ) . Whether this will remain like that in the future depends upon Apple . It would be interesting to see if there 's a simple way to detect when one is in power nap mode , but does n't seem to be available afaik . If you leave a script that pulls from git every minute , in theory , since Power Nap is really a power on without graphics and audio state , maybe it would get executed ( if it was running before ) . untested . More info : <URL>
You can use your thumb to click on the lower part of the track and the index finger to move . As long as you keep the trackpad pressed with the thumb you can release the index finger .
should do the trick . The flag specifies any application you want , so it 's applicable to any number of situations , including ones where TextEdit is n't the default editor . Other relevant options opens in the default editor ( i.e. if you use BBEdit , TextMate , etc. ) will open the file specifically in TextEdit
end question
start question
Is Quicktime always pre-installed on the Macintosh OS ?
Every version of Mac OS X has QuickTime . QuickTime Pro is/was an optional paid extra , which included extra codecs and additional functionality . The situation with " classic " Mac OS was rather more complicated , but I 'm guessing you only care about OS X.
I imagine this is the case : iPhone and iPad are using an integrated chipset ( like this : <URL> ) supporting both Wifi and Bluetooth . And as both of them are on the same chip the manufacturer could be just incrementing the MACs . However the question is why you ask this - if you want to use this information to check if it 's the same device : do n't , as there is no guarantee that it will always be this way .
That feature is part of Lion and QuickTimeX , but you can disable it . Open your terminal ( / Application/Utilities/Terminal . app ) or use Spotlight to find the Terminal and type : That should stop QuickTime from saving the opened windows when you quit it . If you want to revert the behavior , change the " false " to " true " .
Activity Monitor is a good starting point . At a minimum , you can determine whether your system is becoming CPU-bound when you start the large application . It can also show how system memory is being utilized and whether excessive swapping is taking place . An <URL> notes : Tip : Page outs occur when the Mac has to write information from RAM to the hard drive ( because RAM is full ) . Adding more RAM may reduce page outs . This <URL> has a reference to another good tool - the Shark utility from the Apple Developer Tool Suite : Shark from the Developer Tools suite ( CHUD ) provide even more powerful process inspection capabilities and organizes bottom-up and top-down trees of where your time goes for the entire space of function calls , and is even decent at explaining where the bottlenecks are , sometimes suggesting low-level optimizations . Apple 's <URL> notes : Shark is an advanced tool for sampling or tracing a single application or all running applications . Like Instruments , Shark provides a set of powerful analysis tools with an easy-to-use interface to help you gather performance data . Shark helps you isolate problems quickly by providing a rich set of data-mining features and is an indispensable tool for finding performance bottlenecks . It provides optimization tips and help with analyzing assembly-level operations . Because it traces operations down at the kernel-level of the system , Shark can also provide you with tremendous insight about the behavior of your application relative to the rest of the system . Among the types of operations you can perform in Shark are the following : Statistical sampling of your application over a period of time System-level tracing Malloc tracing Static analysis L2 Cache profiling Processor bandwidth analysis Java code analysis In addition to basic sampling , Shark also offers the windowed time facility feature for several of its sampling options . The windowed time facility tells Shark to record and process a finite buffer of the most recently acquired samples . This feature lets Shark record data continuously and for long periods of time in the background . You can then direct Shark to stop sampling only after something interesting occurs in your code and to display the samples related to that interesting behavior . Thus , you can use this feature to determine what part of your program 's execution is interesting after it occurs . For a quick example of how to use Shark , see " <URL> . " For detailed information about Shark , see <URL> . The page also lists a number of other tools in the developer tool suite that can be used to monitor your system 's performance and hopefully pin down any potential bottlenecks before you buy the second SSD .
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
What would happen if I were to force the Intel drivers for the Linux kernel into Mac OS X ? Would it work ? Would there be severe instability or data loss ? Is it even possible ? At best ? 100 % nothing . At worst ? Crash your whole system and make it unusable or even unbootable . While Mac OS X and Linux are both different " flavors " of Unix , you ca n't just grab parts from one OS and just install it into the other OS and expect them to work . That said , if there is source code for the driver somewhere , you could potentially compile them for Mac OS X using the Xcode suite of development tools . But that is one big if . The reality is compiling Linux application source code on a Mac OS X system from a Linux system is a crapshoot . Sometimes it works and you get to use nice Linux tools on a Mac OS X system . But sometimes it just wo n't work . And that is at the application level . On the driver level it 's even less plausible or doable ; and even if it was doable it would be difficult to do that at best . That said , <URL> . But note that the versions of Mac OS X referred to are Mac OS X 10.4 and 10.5 ; nothing more modern .
It 's a new feature in ios 5 called " region Monitoring " The reason it 's active even if the app is closed is that this feature runs in iOS 5 core and notifies all apps that are registered when they have entered or left a specific geo-fence . Reminders does that when you use a location based reminder . Although the location icon appears at all time . This actually has very minimal impact on the battery due to apple really optimizing this feature by using cell and wifi mostly .
According to a StackOverflow answer <URL> , " If the provisioning profile is expired , iOS should get rid of it automatically . As apps are deleted , iOS should properly deal with the provisioning aspects automatically . This philosophy is mentioned in WWDC 2014 's talk on Managing Apple Devices around ~ 42 minutes in . " I just uninstalled GBA4iOS and the provisioning profile is still there , even after a reboot . I do n't know where to look to see it on the iPad without connecting it to a computer w / XCode , so I ask my MDM to report on it . Still researching . . [ edit ] here is the phrase from the WWDC talk : " Provisioning profiles no longer appear at all in Settings because its handled completely automatically . The device will automatically prune expired provisioning profiles when they are no longer needed . " Still looking for a way to UnTrust a Provisioning Profile without xCode . .
Try typing this into terminal : This should output details about which jar file is open in the runtime . Alternatively , to find out which applications are using the Java Runtime select java in the activity monitor and clicking on the blue i icon . Click and see if it gives you a clue which application launched the java environment . You 'd be surprised which applications depend on Java ! You could also try going into the Java System Preference , clicking the Java Tab and choosing . You 'll see a list of registered Java applications that might help you find the culprit .
Unfortunately this does not work out of the box . But there is a nice and free plugin called <URL> which gives you this exact feature back , and many more on top . ( See Version 4.0.8 ( Mac OS X 10.9 ) by clicking on " Old Versions " ) . Please close your Mail.app before installing .
That should get you the current firmware version of your SSD . TPVABBF0 = has update TPSABBF0 = does not have update
The first place you 'll most probably want to look at is the Print &amp; Scan option within System Preferences . There you 'll see a list of all printers that you have installed . You can optionally uninstall each of them by clicking on the minus ' - ' at the bottom of the list . Also , if you are troubleshooting printer issues , you might want to try right-clicking within the list and select Reset printing system . Apple has a document about what resetting the printing system does here : <URL> On your question about where the drivers are actually installed , the answer would be in the / Library/Printers folder . I 've noticed some printer drivers were left intact in this folder even after I uninstalled them . I 've removed some of the files here myself and would say that it is generally safe to do so . However , I 'd still suggest that you uninstall your printer drivers from within Print &amp; Scan first before traversing into this folder .
One way to do this is to install a boot loader such as <URL> . This will present you with a menu similar to the following when you start up your computer :
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
Open your desired user Home folder in Finder ( ShiftCommand + H ) and select View > Show View Options . There should be a checkbox for toggling the Library folder .
The name for these types of files is <URL> . With this name you can search for applications to help open and convert the format . FreePV is an open source project for Linux and Windows that claims to view QuickTime VR files : <URL> FreePV is a viewer for QuickTime ( QTVR ) , SPiV , cylindrical , cubic and cylindrical panoramas . The package provides a standalone panorama viewer and a Firefox/Mozilla plugin .
As in all the Unix system , there are two type of folder . One specific for the user and the other for the entire system and so all the users of the machine . In particular for OS X : the Macintosh HD version is the actual computer Library , while , the home folder version is specific to your user account . Here an example to help you understand how to use it : is a place to store fonts , screen savers , Dashboard widgets , and all other things that all local users need access to . is for your own user account only ( cache and preference files , widgets for your use only , etc ) . EDIT : taken from <URL> , a complete overview of all the possible library folders in a Mac OS X system : The user library , ~ / Library , stores per-user settings etc. . The local library , / Library , stores computer-wide settings etc. . I call this the " local " library , because in NextStep it was / Local/Library , but you 'll see all sorts of other names for it , such as the root library , computer library , ... The network library , / Network/Library would store settings shared by all computers in a network domain -- if a network domain admin set one up , which nobody does anymore ... The system library , / System/Library , stores the base settings , resources , etc that come with OS X . In theory , you should n't change anything in here .
All of your data is stored on the flash memory , which is one of the chips soldered on to the logic board . It 's not really possible to swap the memory to a different board ( perhaps if you had advanced electronics skills , but I would n't like the chances of success ) . If there 's a problem with your logic board , you can replace it with a new one , as detailed in that iFixit link . Assuming everything goes to plan , and you have no other issues with the phone , it will effectively be a new iPhone . If you have a backup of your old one , you should be able to restore your data during the set up process .
end question
start question
What is an SSD drive 's negotiated link speed ?
Yes - at the moment - those link speeds are the theoretical maximum speed at which data can transfer to or from those devices . The EFI firmware version on your MacBook Pro controls these link speeds as well as many other aspects of CPU throttling , so without reverse engineering that code - it 's hard to know what or why the link may re-negotiate at a different speed . In the past , <URL> to increase SATA link speeds for third party drives when they have done the engineering to make sure it will be stable enough - even if they do n't support those drives . Of course they also release updates to improve their OEM parts in terms of speed and reliability so you can monitor those link speeds as well as your actual bottlenecks and <URL> if you feel things are not optimally configured - especially if you have some benchmarks or other data to show that case .
I made a similar modification to my 13 " mid-2009 MacBook Pro and used the <URL> . You do n't need to provide a SATA cable , rather the frame ( OptiBay or Data Doubler ) used to mount the hard drive in place of the optical drive will use the SATA cable formerly employed by the optical drive . As for tools , I believe you will only need a Phillips screwdriver ( size # 00 or # 0 , I ca n't recall ) . Unless they are required for the OptiBay , I do n't think you 'll need any Torx drivers . The installation instructions for the Data Doubler can be found <URL> and cover the tools required for all MBP models . One tip for doing this procedure - use a long roll of tape stuck to your desk to keep track of the screws you remove at every step . If you 're especially concerned about losing track of where things go , you can put the tape on a piece of paper and write down the location of each screw next to where you 've taped it . All the standard warnings about opening your computer apply here . In particular , be sure you have at least one backup of all your data .
You can do this with QuickTime 7 . Grab a copy off the Mac OS X Install DVD . Go Window - > AV Controls and change the playback speed . ( Or something with a similar name ) Then View - > Loop for repeating .
That is the Option key ( Alt on Windows ) . It 's not the same as shift - it 's generally used as a secondary modifier for keyboard shortcuts ( Command being the primary modifier ) and for shortcuts that do n't perform an action ( Option-8 is a bullet point and Option-Shift-8 is a degree symbol ) .
The recovery partition on your original disk was the only supported method until the <URL> was made available . The bulk of this answer was written before the official steps were published - so I would recommend the Recovery Disk Assistant even though HT4718 steps help understand what is happening under the hood . <URL> The easiest is to get a drive enclosure or adapter and re-run the Lion installer from the Recovery HD and install Lion onto the new SSD . It likely wo n't matter if the drive with the recovery HD is on an external bus or an internal bus , but I would keep the original drive inside the mac until you have Lion installed on your SSD connected to an external port . Boot off the SSD to test it and run migration from the internal drive to the SSD before doing swapping the drives inside your mac . It still boggles my mind that any mac will ship without some sort of reinstall media . Look in the center of the box , under where the mac sat . Call apple if your media is missing so they can ship it to you or point out how they want you to reinstall the OS on a new drive . Your mac 's hard drive is listed as a consumer replaceable part , so they have to provide you with the steps to do that .
EDIT 3 : Yes ! Since the release of 10.10.4 , <URL> called , allowing users to activate TRIM also on unsupported disks . So now the ultimate and final answer is : / EDIT 3 EDIT 1 : Finally I found a way ! Apparently there is a neat trick hidden in the tool as <URL> says . So in the future I will boot into Single User Mode ( press ⌘ + S at boot screen ) from time to time and issue the command . It will check the disk and finish with the message / EDIT 1 EDIT 2 : So there is a new tool called <URL> that specializes on exactly that problem . It has a manual TRIM command and helps you turning Yosemite 's kext signing on and off . / EDIT 2 : Furthermore , I read about <URL> which would somewhat accomplish what I was originally asking for . This Windows ( Bootcamp partition required ) tool will rewrite all data of partitions or an entire disk . This approach seems a little less painful than wiping my SSD and restoring it from a backup . However , it also comes with the downside of doing an additional write cycle .
Your Macbook can have as much as 3GB of RAM . Check it first . Buy an Optical Disk Drive to HDD adaptor on ebay ( 9.5 mm PATA to SATA variant ) . Put you HDD there . Crucial is good . 64GB is enough for me , SATA150 and probably you . Small read/writes are same between different sizes and you will not get those faster linear RW anyway -- why pay more when you can have platters to store those big files ? Still it 's wiser to sell your Macbook as is and buy anything unibody ( used ) for a bit more -- you 'll get better graphics to help with flash ( I have such a notebook and know how pathetically slow it becomes when flash is on ) . And then max that unibody Macbook with RAM ( which is DDR3 and cheaper ) and SSD .
<URL> does the job well . There are both Windows and Mac version available for free .
It 's definitely worth going internal . Someone asked the question some time ago <URL> and the conclusion was , that even with USB3 ( which only the newest Macs have ) , the internal version is more than 50 % faster . USB3 external will probably still be faster than a regular 2.5 " MacBook drive ( assuming that you have a MacBook ) , maybe even with USB2 , but with older hardware ( and thus older connectors , e.g. just USB2 ) the margins will get slimmer . It may depend on your machine ( e.g. if you still have warranty or if it is one that is hard to take apart , like the the very new superslim iMacs ) , but having retrofitted an SSD into a 2009 iMac I can say the benefit does outweigh efforts IMO . Also given the SSD you linked there , you can get a current Samsung of the same size less expensive and spend the rest of the money for someone skilled to put it into your machine .
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
Yes - at the moment - those link speeds are the theoretical maximum speed at which data can transfer to or from those devices . The EFI firmware version on your MacBook Pro controls these link speeds as well as many other aspects of CPU throttling , so without reverse engineering that code - it 's hard to know what or why the link may re-negotiate at a different speed . In the past , <URL> to increase SATA link speeds for third party drives when they have done the engineering to make sure it will be stable enough - even if they do n't support those drives . Of course they also release updates to improve their OEM parts in terms of speed and reliability so you can monitor those link speeds as well as your actual bottlenecks and <URL> if you feel things are not optimally configured - especially if you have some benchmarks or other data to show that case .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
Network Link Conditioner You can create a custom profile for Network Link Conditioner , using the following settings : It is a free download in Xcode ( go to Xcode → Open Developer Tool → More Developer Tools ... and download the Hardware IO Tools for Xcode ) .
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
Here you are some major points : Reinstall your Mountain Lion . Do n't run benchmarks on your new SSD Benchmarks usually write a lot of data to the disk ( to test the write speed ) , wearing it out . So it is the best way how you can ruin your SSD even before you start using it . Do n't do it . Enable TRIM OS X supports TRIM only for Apple-supplied SSD 's . If you want to have TRIM enabled with 3-rd party SSD drives - download from <URL> . Very experienced users may want to enable trim manually not using above mentioned , <URL> is the tutorial how it can be done by the hand . Turn off local Time Machine snapshots [ laptops only ] There is no GUI switch to turn these local backups off , but it can easily be done on the command line . Just start Terminal.app and execute the following command : if you want to back to original settings use command Turn off hibernation [ laptops only ] OS X saves all the memory to disk when entering sleep mode.The more RAM you have , the more gigabytes it writes to the disk every time you close the lid/put it to sleep . You can disable this feature via command Set noatime flag OS X by default records last access time for every file . Every time you read a file , a write is made on the filesystem to record this action . There is no point in doing it and no side effects if you disable that by mounting the root filesystem with noatime flag set . You can read more about it <URL> and <URL> : Move user home directories to HDD [ SSD+HDD only ] This is only useful if you have both SSD as well as HDD in your Mac . You can move all the content of / Users folder to the HDD and create symbolic link from the SSD to it by running this 3 commands : Turn off sudden motion sensor [ no HDD only ] If SSD is the only drive in your Mac , there is no point in using the Sudden Motion Sensor . You can turn it off by Turn off hard drive sleep [ no HDD only ] Some websites mention SSD may freeze when the hard drive sleep feature is on , so it is recommended to turn it off . It can be done in the <URL>
TimeMachine might be the easiest way to back things up on a regular basis . You 'll need any old external drive and a few clicks of the mouse . If you have more specific needs , feel free to edit your question to refine for what you are looking .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
Fire . Unfortunately that would seem to be at odds with Amazon 's return policy . If Disk Utility ca n't see the drive , it 's unlikely you 'll be able to access it to overwrite anything ( and overwriting on SSDs can be tricky in any event ) . Additionally , because the drive in the rMBP is a proprietary form factor , it 's difficult to take it out and try to access it from another computer ( which might not help any way ) . There may be adapters made in the future , but I 'm not aware of any for sale at the moment . The best preventative measure for this would be to employ some form of whole drive encryption , like Apple 's <URL> . That way even if someone is able to read the data off the drive , it wo n't be useable unless they have your encryption password .
A simplified answer to SSD lifetime would be : SSD is a Semiconductor devices build to last minimum 10 Years . Some of us still have computers from year 2000 or even before , thus older than 14 years . With that said , looking closer at the SSD , it is a flash memory type semiconductor device and could develop leaking currents ( means the cells loose they charge ( memory ) . There is difference in life ( quality ) of SSD 's depending on manufacturer ( Intel , Samsung ect . ) . To my knowledge , Intel is still the front runner on quality = life time , but Samsung is chasing them . It is really difficult to say who is the best , but one can use the warranty as a guide . For example Samsung gives 5 Years on the 840 model . That means it will last minimum 7-10 years , otherwise they would be out of business replacing all dead SSD 's . Just to clarify , I am talking about the most common type of SSD ( using the Single layer memory cells ) , the dual layer lasts even longer but it is much more expensive . Apple , Crucial , OWC ect . do NOT make the actual memory chips . The buy them from Semiconductor manufacturer like Samsung or Intel ect . and make the SSD boards with they name on it . However , do not panic , the drives have a self repair capability ! They do that by simply replacing the dead cells . The problem is there is limited supply ( reserve ) of new cells . One of the biggest life limiting factor is the amount of data stored . Let 's say when the SSD is 90 % full , it will become a problem soon , since the drive tries to rotate the cells to preserve/avoid memory leakage . Second life factor is the daily usage ( read/write ) . Again , do not panic , a " normal " user will never see that problem . All in all the SSD should last you longer than your computer screen or keyboard ! SSD are sensitive to heat ( as any Semiconductor device ) and will loose life if operated at elevate environment temperatures , means they love cold environment . Does not mean you have to move to Alaska :) . Just to give you an idea . Why do you think Intel invented the so called " I " processors they call it Intelligent CPU . Great Marketing by the way . The actual reason is the CPU becomes too hot if it operates at 100 % all the time . Same applies to the SSD chips , so keep them cool and do not overload your drive and it will last and last . And ! , try not to use to much of the SSD health test softwares . That just stresses you SSD unnecessary . It would be the same if you would constantly go to a doctor to verify if you healthy and he would give you a xray scan each time , just to tell you you are fine ( but to much xray exposure will kill you ) .
end question
start question
Is there a way to disable the internal speaker in Macbook ?
When you switch audio outputs , the volume level reverts to whatever level it was at when you last used that output . That means that if you mute the internal speaker before plugging in headphones , it 'll stay muted if you accidentally disconnect your headphones . If that 's not enough , you can also use <URL> . It 's an extension designed to let your Mac record its own audio output , which it does by creating virtual input and output options that feed directly into each other . That means that you can hold down Option , click on the volume icon in the menu bar , and select one of the Soundflower options as your audio output before plugging in your headphones and selecting them as the output device . If your headphones get disconnected , your audio output will default to Soundflower , which does n't send anything through the speaker .
OK , figured it out , it 's a bit kludgy , but works . In the javascript console ( the single line at the bottom of the web inspector ) - type this : This forces a page reload on the remote device .
I had this setup for a while and yes , the hard drive in the primary disk bay would spin down when booted from the SSD . It was fairly easy to tell , because when accessing the drive there was a noticeable delay when first accessing the drive after leaving it idle for about 10 minutes . This was on an older machine ( 2009 MacBook Pro 15 " , running Mac OS X 10.7 ) .
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
That 's actually pretty easy , you just double click the icon in the Menubar .
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
No , there is no way to sort on size in iPhoto . From your context I guess you mean filesize . In iPhoto , size means the dimensions on the Photo ( length by breadth , measured in pixels ) - see the Export dialogue , for instance . iPhoto is all about the images and not the files that contain them , so I 'm not surprised . It 's a $ 15 app , you get a lot , but not everything .
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
After seeing @Lri 's answer I discovered that my original service would work in the Finder as long as I was n't in column view . Since that 's the view that I use most of the time , I decided to see if I could get @Lir 's basic solution working without the need for an external application . Here 's what I did : Open Automator and choose " Service " from the options of what to make . Set " Service receives " to " no input " and " in " to " Finder.app " . Drop a " Run AppleScript " action onto the main window . Drop the code @Lri provided into place so you end up with : Save the action as " Open via TextMate " . Under " System Preferences " - > " Keyboard " - > " Keyboard Shortcuts " - > " Services " - > " General " add my preferred shortcut to the " Open vie TextMate " item . This works in all my Finder views ( including column view ) for Mac OS X 10.7.3 and TextMate 1.5.10 .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
Nothing shipping immediately , however Sonnet did announce a <URL> that you could pair with a Firewire ExpressCard to give yourself some Firewire capabilities . Their site claims it will start to ship by December 14 , 2011 . At one point a direct Thunderbolt to Firewire adapter was announced , but I ca n't find any concrete info on it , so I would n't count on it appearing any time soon . Overall Thunderbolt support from anyone other than Apple has been pretty slow to take off . There have been some suggestions that Intel was slow releasing final specs for manufacturers and/or getting production hardware out the door . I 've also read that some manufacturers may be waiting for the 2nd generation of cheaper Thunderbolt chips to ship sometime in 2012 . Lots of promise in the technology , and I think it will take off sooner or later , but it 's still in the early stages unfortunately .
I 've found that if head to mission control and uncheck ' displays have different spaces ' , then logout/login you should be sweet . Worked for me anyways .
end question
start question
How can I make sure my iPhone uses UK spelling and keyboard ?
You need to set your device language to English ( U.K. ) , not just the keyboard . To do this : Open Settings Tap " General " Tap " Language &amp; Region " Tap " iPhone Language " Select " English ( U.K. ) " Your iPhone should reboot and your dictionary should be set to British English . If it does n't , you may need to reset your dictionary by : Open Settings Tap " General " Scroll to the bottom and tap " Reset " Tap " Reset Keyboard Dictionary " You can verify that you are running your iPhone with British English as your preferred language as in the main Settings menu you will see an option labelled " Mobile " ( it is labelled " Cellular " in US English ) .
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
Does control + shift + eject ( sleep displays ) solve your problem ? ( if you set authentication for login ) Or you can use Option + Command + eject Put the computer to sleep .
You have two options . 1 . On-the-road compatible , but not so user-friendy Create a new playlist on the iOS device ( iPod Touch is one , of course ) . Then , add the songs one by one from memory . They will be kept in sort order , and the playlist will be synced to iTunes for future use . 2 . Much easier , but with listening limitations Sync with iTunes . Select the Library source on the left panel . Sort the tracks by " last played " , by clicking on the title of the " Last played " column . If this column is not visible , right-click on any column 's title and check the corresponding item ( or hit ⌘ J and check it ) . Find the set of songs you liked and select it . Create a new playlist from this selection ( ⌘ ⇧ N ) . Reverse the sort order of the newly created playlist by clicking on the ( empty ) title of the column that contains the play index ( numbers at the extreme left of a song 's title ) . The only problem with this solution is that if you listen to one of the songs that were in your set , it will have its Last played field updated , and wo n't be in the proper place ... So this solution is usable only if you can sync pretty quickly after listening to the set , or can remember a few songs ' positions , or if you avoid listening to them altogether before the next sync .
This is currently not possible . Siri is only able to use Apple 's standard apps , sadly .
As convenient as it would be , Terminal ca n't easily provide the functionality you ask for . The reason is that programs that run inside Terminal have different rules for moving the cursor to the beginning/end of the line , for example : ( and other shells ) use CtrlA and CtrlE uses 0 and $ / Shift4 Other programs may use other keys . There is n't a universal key combination for positioning the cursor at the beginning/end of the line . Of course , Terminal could maintain a list of key combinations for a number of common programs , check what 's running and send the correct keys for you , or it could provide a menu item like Move Cursor To Beginning Of Line Inside Shell ⌘ ← and then send CtrlA behind the scenes . But I guess Apple engineers thought that if you venture in <URL> territory you know its idiosyncrasies . ( Surprinsingly , Terminal provides Option ← and Option → which behaves as you would expect , moving the cursor to the beginning of the previous/next word . That only works reliably in , in , for example , only the latter works . ) You can still configure ⌘ ← and ⌘ → to match CtrlA and CtrlE so that it works in and other shells : In Terminal , go to Preferences ... > Settings > [ your active profile ] > Keyboard : Press + , select " cursor left " , " shift " as modifier and action " send string to shell " . Then press CtrlA ( will appear in the text field ` ) and OK : Now add a key combination for " cursor right " and press CtrlE . Open Automator ( for example , hit ⌘ space to bring up Spotlight and type Automator ) , select File > New and choose : Drag to the right pane : Type the following script : and save as : Repeat steps 4 . to 6 . with this script : and save as : This is what Terminal > Services looks like now : You will notice that there is a short delay between the moment you press ⌘ ← or ⌘ → and the moment the cursor actually moves . Bear in mind that it will only work for programs that honor CtrlA/CtrlE , so you may still want to learn the specific key combinations of each program you use in Terminal . ( Tested on OS X 10.3.3 Yosemite )
If you save the Apple Script as an application , then go to System Preferences - > Users - > Login Items , you can add the application there , and it will run on login .
The unresponsive iPhone/iPod Touch home button is a known problem . I had an iPhone which started with the same problem as yours . At first the home button worked with just a soft touch , and from any angle . Then it started to work only with a hard press and not at all from certain angles . Finally , it either completely ignored presses , or responded to a single press as if it had been pressed twice ( multitasking bar appeared ) . It was still inside the one-year warranty , but I bought AppleCare anyway , figuring that it might recur . I took it to an Apple Store and the guy played with it for a minute , told me I had a faulty device and gave me a brand new iPhone . The home button ca n't be replaced , so they just give you a new one . My advice it to take it to an Apple Store if there 's one nearby , or if not call Apple and report the problem . Most likely you 'll get a new , working iPod Touch .
For some possible solutions check out : Solution 1 <URL> If the warranty on your MacBook Pro is no longer valid , like mine , do n't worry . Simply take a small piece of paper , such as a Post-It , and fold it in half . Stick it over the spot on the ribbon cable . Then reinstall the removable battery . The battery should exert enough pressure on the piece of paper to keep the ribbon cable working . If your MacBook Pro is still under warranty , take it to an Apple service center . While Apple has not officially acknowledged that this is a widespread problem , it 's afflicted the machines of many owners , so surely it 's not unknown to them . Demonstrate the steps described above to whomever is helping you as letting him or her see the problem as it happens eliminates the guesswork and may help expedite the time needed for repairs . Solution 2 <URL> THE FIX ? I rolled up a sticky note and placed it on top of the cable . When the battery is locked in place , it puts pressure on the cable , and makes the keyboard and trackpad functional . Solution 3 ( Apple ) Apple support forum dedicated solely to this issue : <URL> THE SOLUTION : This is a HARDWARE problem ! After playing around with removing the battery and noticing that this often returned functionality to the keyboard I surmised that this had some sort of physical aspect . Sure enough , there is a section of copper colored tape/wiring exposed in the batter slot that is slightly bowed where it 's smallest . When I depressed this with my finger tip on this portion to basically flatten it out flush against the housing ; I found that all functionality was restored !
Yes it is safe . You will need a US plug adapter or a replacement cord , but the mac itself is good to go . Reading through the specs it states : Electrical and operating requirements Line voltage : 100-240V AC The power supply can handle both the frequency and voltage changes . And for the question about buying a power cable or use an adapter - > Up to you I did use both and did n't have any problems . I 'd go for a US power cable since that is less clunky , if you stay for longer . If it 's only for a few weeks I would n't bother buying a cable .
The most efficient method of deleting multiple voicemails at once on the device is using multitouch to swipe left on multiple voicemails at once , then tapping delete . If your device is jailbroken , you can delete voicemails from the location that they are stored in ( and the SQLite3 database in ) :
Well -- you can either set up returning alarms -- but I suppose you already came up with that idea yourself . Or you can use one of those many many apps for hourly chimes . This overview claims to have a list of over 50 apps doing just that ( and more ) <URL> The first app I see in the list ( " <URL> " ) seems to be doing exactly what you describe .
One of the easiest ways to do this is to use <URL> . It will let you bind a keyboard shortcut or a trackpad shortcut to many commands , including maximize window . Once you are in the BTT settings page , do the following : Go to the Keyboard tab on top . On the bottom near Keyboard shortcut , enter in whichever keyboard shortcut you want . For Predefined action , choose Maximize Window . There are many other options related to maximizing besides " Maximize Window " : Maximize Window Left Maximize Window Right Maximize Window To Bottom Half Maximize Window To Top Half Maximize To Next Monitor
Under > > > you 've got a list of all the keyboard layouts available . To remove the " Globe " key , you need to have only one keyboard enabled .
There are many third-party virtual keyboard instruments . Do a search at the kvraudio.com virtual instrument news site . Anything that is in Audio Unit ( AU ) format will work with GarageBand . <URL> I have prepared for you . Popular products you might consider : Anything by <URL> <URL> Buying Apple Logic Express or Logic Studio will give you all the Apple Jam Pack sounds in one purchase , with many other features besides . <URL> and <URL> . Finally , read <URL> . They provide a lot of coverage and reviews of products in this category .
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
The Alt key on the Mac is used differently than on Windows . Its main use is exactly what you see : To enter special ( " alternate " ) characters . Menu shortcuts and such are always triggered by a Command-key ( " ⌘ " ) combo ( sometimes including other modifier keys , such as the Alt key ) . For example , closing all open windows in Finder is [ Cmd ] - [ Alt ] - [ W ] .
<URL> does exactly that . You can manage places through web interface or the iPhone app . Places marked with a star ( Saved for later ) will be displayed in Saved section in the app : You can rate and review places from the app as well .
Spelling is determined by the keyboard setting you 're using . Go to Settings > General > International > Keyboards , and make sure that English ( UK ) is added . It also helps to remove the US keyboard so that you do n't accidentally get stuck in that .
end question
start question
Copy audio files to iPhone without using iTunes ?
Yes , it is possible however Apple seems to have gone to great lengths to try to prevent you from doing this . Especially if you meant without the use of any sort of app on the PC at all , as if it were simply a disk drive in explorer . That , I believe , is not possilble/practical without first jailbreaking your phone . If you do not have iOS 8 and you have not jailbroken your phone , I would suggest that you do while you still are able to and while it is a simple " one-button " process . While Pangu recently released a jailbreak for iOS 8 , it is reportedly still a bit buggy so I would wait a bit if you have iOS 8 . You would jailbreak your iPhone by downloading the pangu app on your PC from <URL> However , if you do n't want to jailbreak but you do n't want to use iTunes , there are a number of different " replacements " for iTunes . Many people even go so far as to completely remove iTunes from their system as well . Media Monkey is a rather full-featured replacement for iTunes that can do a number of things that iTunes can or will not . I personally liked MM when I was using it a year or two ago . They support Android as well . You can download it at <URL> Another option is called iFunbox . They recently revamped their software but luckily they deigned to keep the older version , calling it iFunbox classic . Here 's a quote from their website about it . " With iFunBox Classic included , you can still manage files on your iDevice with no jailbreak needed . Here 's some basic features : • Safe ipa package installation and easy access to files and resources in app sandbox . Learn More • Use your device as portable USB disk with hi-speed transmission beyond 20MB/s on iPhone and iPad . • Import and export songs , videos , photos and ringtones with iFunBox quick toolbox . You can find iFunbox at <URL> Hope this helps .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
There are several applications for doing this : <URL> Yamipod is a freeware application that works on Windows , OS X , and Linux . It has a simple interface and looks very easy to use . There is a document on how to transfer songs from your iPod to your computer <URL> It is also an iPod manager and an alternative to using iTunes . <URL> Transferpod is avaiable for both Windows and OS X. However , it is not free . It supports the iPod shuffle , the iPod mini , the iPod nano , the iPod classic , the iPod with video , the iPod touch , and the iPhone . Key features : iPod to computer transfer Manage iPod playlists in an easy way Organize entire iPod music/video for your convenience Browse iPod file information in detail Quick search your music and video file on iPod <URL> iPod2iTunes is for Windows . It also is not free . Features include : Connect multiple iPods . Drag and Drop Songs , Playlists or Video back to iTunes . Move entire genres , albums and artists . Keeps your playlists intact . Enhanced searching and grouping of songs . Find duplicate songs within iTunes and remove them quickly . Optimizes iPod storage space . Supports <URL> Support for the latest 6th generation iPods . ( excluding iPod Touch/iPhone )
You might want to try the application <URL> . It has a built-in function to convert Mac file &amp; folder names to legal Windows file &amp; folder names : Naturally , somebody will come along later and throw a smattering of regex in a bash script for you to puzzle out , but ABFR does this kind of thing so easily . It can even create a droplet app onto which you can ' drop ' files &amp; folders to be processed . It is a handy tool to have in your toolbox if you are n't a strong programmer , or do n't have the time , or both .
Two options : ( 1 ) using <URL> ( formerly KeyRemap4Macbook ) which you already have installed , or ( 2 ) using <URL> which allows more flexible remapping . Maybe you have an older version without this capability , but update to the latest version of Karabiner and you will see an " F10 to Volume Mute " remap option . <URL> For this problem , BetterTouchTool also works well . Although it 's primarily focused on mapping trackpad gestures to various actions , it also allows remapping of keyboard keys . This is a bit more flexible than Karabiner for this example , since it does n't require the exact preset you want to already exist . <URL>
You can disable Gatekeeper in System Preferences : This removes the warnings about opening files downloaded from the internet : It does n't affect the dialogs about <URL> though . You can run Finder as root with , but it 's not really meant to be done permanently .
There is a wine port for OS X : <URL> From the project page : Current Status ( x86 ) Wine works well on OSX for Intel based Macs minus a proper distribution package ( Mac Application Bundle ) to fully integrate with " drag and drop " and " open " or " open with " functionality . Wine also has shortcomings with desktop icon integration and execution of certain types of DOS or blended Windows/DOS programs . ( Notice that Darwine , the original effort to port Wine to OS X , was primarily written for PowerPC Macs . Some work was done to support Intel Macs , but it is <URL> , so you are better off avoiding it . ) There are no official Wine packages available for Intel Macs as of this writing , so you 'll have to use a third-party application like WineBottler ( <URL> ) , PlayOnMac ( <URL> , for Snow Leopard and Lion ) . or Wineskin ( <URL> , for Lion and Mountain Lion ) . daviewales has mentioned in a comment below a package manager I did n't know of called Homebrew ( <URL> ) . You may want to give it a try . Otherwise you can try the commercial product CrossOver , which is basically Wine with , as Wikipedia puts it , various compatibility patches added , more user-friendly configuration tools , and commercial support . You can download a free trial here : <URL>
Basically using a single ' > ' operand send the output to a new file . using a double ' >> ' operand makes it append the contents to the end of an existing file ( and also out of interest create it if it does not already exist . If all your files are definitely in a neat alphabetical order , then you could use : or in case the filenames are n't in alphabetical order .
Use Image Capture . You 'll find it in your Applications folder . It 's surprisingly robust , and it 's made by Apple .
Things you can try ( that I have n't tried myself ) , other than <URL> : If you have a 4 digit lockcode on the iPhone , the encryption on iTunes might <URL> . Try the same pin . Also try older pins , if you change it . It could be an old one . Get <URL> , delete <URL> ( may need to jailbreak the phone to be able to see it ) on it and restart . Be aware this will clear all your passwords . Now delete your iTunes encrypted backups and re-sync . <URL> - this is an easy way to remove the lock code , not sure about the encrypt iphone check tho . Probably . Use some <URL> , <URL> to begin with a lot more of hacking . I wo n't get into much detail here because this is n't a simple procedure . You 're on your own . Just wanted to cite it 's possible and that maybe even today the " encryption " is quite fake . Restore from an old unencrypted backup . Yes , this is the closest step to " wipe " . As you already suggested , wipe your phone ( just for the sake of completeness ) . Good luck !
Turn off iTunes Match on the PowerMac . Use Home Sharing to move the ALAC files to the PowerMac . Re-enable iTunes Match on the PowerMac . It should re-scan the library and match the ALAC songs . Do n't ever delete the ALAC songs from the PowerMac , otherwise your only choice will be to download a 256Kbps file from the cloud .
Yes , they are called 3.5 mm 4 pin splitter , they separate a 4pin 3.5 mm jack in 2 standard 3.5 mm jack ( 1 for headphones , 1 for mic ) as this one : <URL> you can read the comments , there are also some mac users that bought this splitter .
The set of available columns appears to be fixed , and there is no language column . But the way to change the set of displayed columns is by contextual menu ( right-click ) on the column headers . ( At least in 12.1 -- Apple seems to take pleasure in making sure we ca n't ever get accustomed to any particular UI for iTunes . ) There is a " category " column which I will use . Not ideal , but better than usurping BPM or grouping . Update : Changed my mind . I can put lang : es ; in Grouping and search for that in a " smart playlist . " That still allows me to put other things in Grouping .
In Canada this is not legal . <URL> but private copies are for your own use , they can not be given away . There 's some contrast here with CDs that 's interesting . With physical media like tapes or CDs the " owner " is the person in possession of the original copy . This definition made it legit , at least in Canada , to borrow original materiel , copy it , and then return it . The levy on the CD-R covered the royalty payment for the copy ( in theory ) and you were n't obligated to destroy copies if the original left your possession . With downloaded content you ca n't give away the original in the same sense as physical media . Lending downloaded media and non-private copying of downloaded media are essentially indistinguishable actions . Some legal alternatives in Canada : Buy all the songs in physical format and make your mix tape from those Buy her the tracks as gifts via iTunes Buy you and her a month subscription to <URL> and make her a shared playlist there Downloaded content has taken all the romance out of making mix tapes , that 's for certain .
If the option " Copy files to the iTunes Music folder when adding to library " is activated , iTunes makes a copy . The default storing location is : Windows 7 : Windows Vista : Windows XP and 2000 : MAC OS X :
Have you tried <URL> ? It 's an app that displays the current iTunes song lyrics on the desktop . It does display a dock icon . You can also adjust font , size , position , color , shadow , etc. . There are no individual lyric files that are stored on your computer . The lyric information is embedded in the id3 tag of each song file . There is an app called <URL> that will batch extract song lyrics into individual text files .
You can use the " File Sharing " feature of various apps THROUGH iTunes , but without having to actually SYNC with iTunes . Install the free CineXPlayer app . This will allow you to play a much broader range of videos . Then plug your ipad into any computer with iTunes installed . iTunes will recognize the device , and let you browse it WITHOUT syncing it . If you go to the " Apps " tab inside the device 's pages in iTunes , you 'll see CineXPlayer listed below , in " File Sharing " . Select CineXPlayer and drag movies to the " Documents " pane . Ta da !
Try <URL> Easily transfer photos and videos between iPhone , iPad , Android and Computer . No cables or extra software required . $ 2.99 in the app store .
If you start draging arround tracks or albums there should open at the right a bar within your iPhone/iPad/iPod . Drag the track/album on it .
Hold down option whilst dragging into the ITunes window to add to the library , without it also being copied into ITunes fodler
end question
start question
Login Window not blacking out my screen ?
I assume that you 've selected " Start Screen Saver " in the hot-corner in question , correct ? If so , what screen saver do you currently have configured ? The reason that I ask is that some screen savers ( although none of the ones that come with your Mac ) start with the current desktop image and then apply special effects to it over time . So I can imagine if . . you 've configured your screensaver to shuffle through screen savers , and you have installed one of the aforementioned screensavers , ... that this combination could produce the kind of symptoms you are describing . Edit : Interesting . I do n't even have " Lock Screen " as one of the choices on my machine : Edit 2 : I had never tried that option until now . I set up my laptop ( model identifier , 2.93 Ghz ) as you described and put the display to sleep with that hot corner and woke it up over &amp; over again . I went through about 50 iterations , and I was able to reproduce your problem 3 times in that span : the display would appear to blank , but when it woke up I could see my desktop with the login panel overlayed . Because this kind of configuration involves invoking the special power-management circuitry in the machine , there are more moving parts that can go wrong in the process . I believe you have little choice other than to report the problem to Apple , and even if there is a real bug , there will be a chance that the bug is in the power-management circuitry itself and the ' fix ' might only come when you can buy a new machine . Or not . Maybe you could get lucky and there this could be fixed by a firmware update or a point-release of the OS . I like this option , now that you have pointed it out to me . I like that it immediately puts the display to sleep , which makes me feel better about how my battery is being used . Alas , if blanking the screen and keeping it from prying eyes is a higher priority , maybe you should use the " Start Screen Saver " option instead , and set the screensaver to something mostly black like the " Computer Name " screensaver . I wish I could offer more help .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
No , I hate screenprotectors Most of them really do n't There are certainly bad ones , that are hard to apply or peel off easily , I 've even had one that would blur the screen Only the ones that blur your screen ;-) They have a slightly matte finish so fingerprints wo n't be as obvious Yes , yes , and yes . I suggest you just replace them , they 're not that expensive I believe it is all stupid ... They just make you feel better . The glass on the new iPhone is incredibly difficult to scratch , and even the older ones hardly scratch at all . I suggest you stop caring so much about a little scratch , the device is supposed to be used . You 'll hardly notice it if there even ARE tiny scratches . If you want to protect it , what you really need to worry about is the thing breaking after you drop it , try a protective case instead . :-)
I do n't believe there 's a way to do it without jailbreaking . Because of the security restrictions on what apps can access , and particularly the limited functionality when running in the background , I 'm pretty sure it 's impossible without jailbreaking ( and maybe even if you do jailbreak ) . If you 're looking to make a screen-cast or something similar , the technique I 've heard is popular ( at least with <URL> , who does a lot of iOS app videos ) is using the iPhone simulator included with Xcode .
This is not possible , nor was it possible with Mobile Me . Particularly irritating when a number of people share an iPad and do n't want to enable full email for each other for example . I 'm afraid there is no way around it , unless perhaps you can download a different browser from the App Store that will enable you to change your user agent string to trick the website into thinking you are using Firefox or something that is n't mobile safari .
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
Quoting from John Siracusa 's <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : If you prefer the old behavior , uncheck the " Displays have separate Spaces " checkbox in the Mission Control preference pane . Doing so will also restore the ability to have windows that span more than one display . So yes , it 's just a setting . It 's been put in the Mission Control pane , rather than Displays , because the effect of this change is to allow you to have different full screen apps on different displays . The page of the review that I linked to explains the change in more detail ( and specifically discusses the window-across-multiple-displays behaviour that you want ) .
The points raised are both correct . While having the protector will prevent scratches on the screen , it will also reduce the quality of the display quite significantly . When I bought my Mac , I was also met with this dilemma . After having tried the best screen protector that the Apple Store had , I decided not to go with one . The display does n't really scratch all that much , and I have not been able to induce a scratch even after using a cheap cloth . I would suggest you to use a screen cleaning liquid every time you use a cloth , as that is how I have been able to prevent the scratches .
Installed my copy of Mountain Lion on top of Lion , seems like everything works now . No issues , thanks anyway ! Appreciate it :)
Quoted from Apple.com Continuity features are available on iPhone 5 or later , iPad ( 4th generation ) , iPad Air , iPad mini , iPad mini with Retina display , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
This is included by Apple in the latest iOS . You want to list that network as Auto-Login in the preferences for that network . When you are in range , you first have to go to the Wi-Fi Networks sheet in Settings.app , Press the white > with the blue circle and set your preferences for each network : Auto-Login controls whether the log in credentials are saved , so turn that on . You do n't need to enable auto-join , but it will reduce the taps to re-join this saved network if the device sleeps or is really out of range . Turning on Auto-Login makes the device attempt to load www.apple.com and watches as you enter the wifi credentials needed for whatever web site is used to join the wifi network . Many open public sites are automated so do n't worry if it sets itself up without prompting you at this point .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
I use following to prevent Captive networks Change : File Name to in System/Library/CoreServices Make note of this so you can change it back one day if you need to . This will not delete cookies you already have but will stop getting more of them .
I just solved it ! SOLUTION : 1 . Activate the OS X Root User in the System Preferences . How to activate the root user : <URL> 2 . After the root user is activated , log out from your account and log in as the user " root " . Go to System Preferences - > Displays - > Color and pick the color profile ( that you want on your OS X Login Screen ) . Log out of the Root Account and you 'll see the selected color profile will be used on the Login Screen . 3 . Log back in to your normal account . Now you can deactivate the root user via System Preferences , the same way it was activated . The color profile selected via root user earlier will stay . Result : The color does n't change anymore between Login Screen and account and I do n't have a yellow/dark login screen anymore , finally ! Could Apple make that easier ? YES ! But that 's a pretty fast way to do it , without any " hacking " tricks .
Some obvious causes : Need to wait 30 to 60 seconds for the SMC to read the battery and decide what to do check for pencil lead/debris on the mac end of the magsafe check for pins stuck down on the magsafe cord end of things The <URL> on the Mac The battery , all adapter or charging circuitry itself is faulty or detecting something that causes a pause and the mac might need service . ( This is exactly what your mac will do if it needs an 85 watt adapter but you 've somehow gotten your " friend 's " 65 watt adapter - if your adapter is n't putting out enough power , the mac can only run and not support the CPU/GPU load as well as the charging circuitry . Similarly , if the battery is drawing more than designed , the mac will prefer to run than charge and tells you this in the not charging message . ) Due to the way batteries work , they can be out of range at only a certain voltage range so initially it will be good until you reach that one point where the voltage drops too fast and shows aging or a problem with the cells . Do a <URL> at your earliest convenience and think about a visit to the genius bar or other service desk if the problem continues . Take your wall adapter with you when you go as it can be checked with the mac together .
No , it does n't ( yet ) have any methods of muting alerts on other devices even when it has reason to know that the alert has been read etc. . I 'm sure that it will arrive soon , but as it stands every device is treated independent of each other with regards to notification settings , or to put it another way , notification are " device independent " , and you are waiting for them to be treated as " notification independant " , as it were .
For maximizing windows ( and more ) , I use SizeUp : <URL> This is not the same as full-screen mode which Mark refers to .
To add an item to your Login Items : Open up the Accounts Preference Pane in System Preferences Click on your Account and the click on the Login Items tab on the right hand side of the window . Click the ' + ' button to navigate to the application or document you wish to open up on login . If you wish you can check off the " Hide " checkbox to hide the application by default after it launches during login .
Xcode will usually do this if this style of window is the last to be closed . If this is the case the your window looks like this : Then it can be fixed simply by doing the following : And finally select what side bars you want to be visible :
It is possible . Just hold down the Command ⌘ button and drag the Picture in Picture window anywhere you desire .
end question
start question
How can I locate an iMessage from 1-2 months ago ? Possible ?
If it was archived on your Mac , you can find it by date . Navigate to Open the relevant dated folder &amp; any conversations for that day will be listed by the contact names . Double-clicking will open it in Messages .
<URL> I have purchased and evaluated a newly released program called Reflector App ( which runs on your Mac ) that does everything I need it to do . It costs US $ 15 and works using Apple Airplay on your iOS device , so it supports iPad 2 , iPad 3 , and iPhone 4S . It makes its own QuickTime recordings with audio and video . If you have a good connection with a WiFi N router ( such as my Apple Time Capsule ) and an Ethernet connection to your Mac , you get a frame rate good enough to record yourself playing Angry Birds , at full iPad screen size . It records audio and video from your iPad . This app is quite new and small updates are being released frequently . The documentation is sketchy but the tech support via email is responsive . You can download a trial version that will only work for 10 minutes total ; after that you must pay for the app . It 's not available in the Mac App Store and I suspect it wo n't be . You can purchase it directly from the web site .
At the moment , you have to use iTunes to gift an application for iPad . If the application is universal , then you can gift the app with your iPhone .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
Yes , simply coping your entirely iTunes folder to an other computer will do the trick . This assumes all of your media is consolidated within the iTunes Media and iTunes Music folders . iTunes will assist in copying music to the folder and organizing a library if you would like to ensure all the media is portable when it comes time to transfer . Do not forget to reauthorize the old computer if you are not going to use it regularly in case it crashes and one of your 5 slots is taken up . You can reset things after a lost computer , but it is somewhat time restricted to prevent abuse of that feature .
Yes you can do it using an Active HDMI to MiniDisplay port adaptor like <URL> but as you can see it 's not cheap
This is actually a default setting by Google that can be changed . To change this setting Go to your <URL> settings found in the top right under the gear icon . Select the Calendar tabs Click the Shared : Edit settings link for the calendar you want to edit . Select the Notifications tab Click the remove link next to the reminders you do n't want . Please note that this will only fix events created from this point forward , you will still have to change all the notifications in events that were previously setup .
For iOS 8 or later , in iMessage once you have your conversation with the contact ( s ) you wish to send your location with , tap " Details " and then tap " Send Location " .
Do not download third-party apps from untrusted sources . In System Preferences , Set : Security &amp; Privacy -- > General -- > Allow apps downloaded from : to either Mac App Store or Mac App Store and identified developers So far it seems this is only transferable from a computer to device over a usb to iTunes connection , which means the computer must be infected with one of these third party apps . Also seems pretty limited to China and its third party app store for now . <URL> <URL>
There is no need to jailbreak . An application like <URL> will do the trick , if you have a MacOS X computer . Just make sure you turn off encryption for the backup .
In a nutshell , iOS sets up a persistent connection to the Apple Push Notification ( APN ) servers if you elect to use iMessage , iCloud , Notifications or other push services . From there , the phone checks in with the servers anytime it has a network connection and listens for messages that the servers wish to push to your device . Furthermore , iOS then registers which applications on your phone should get specific messages . All the messages pass through the notification center system in case you have elected for them to be posted to specific places such as the lock screen , the notification tray or just passed off to the end application for each message as appropriate . That 's it . There 's a server . ( likely many behind a load balancer ) There 's a connection that your device opens to the server . Things can then arrive through the connection .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
It depends . The iPad ( 3rd Generation ) is slightly thicker than the iPad 2 , but there are reports that many cases designed for the 2 will work on the new model . Both of these iPads can use the smart cover technology too . Check with the case manufacturer or online forums to be check the compatibility of specific models . Update : It <URL> . Early smart covers may not work with iPad ( 3gen ) because Apple changed the polarity of the sleep sensor magnets at some point during the production run . The original iPad was the thickest of the lot and had no smart cover capability . Most cases ( if not all ) were not interchangeable between the newer models . Accessories should work unless they 're truly dimension critical or require a technology not present in a previous model . My inCase Origami case and the Apple Bluetooth Keyboard it protects continues to work with all iPad models , as do my car chargers , video adaptors and the Apple Camera Connection Kit . The OtterBox Defender case on my original iPad wo n't does n't work on newer models .
Hold down your finger in the address bar to get the little magnifier to show up , finally drag your finger to the right or left to get to the part of the url that you want to edit .
I will answer my question myself . This is easy to have a try . You can send an receive iMessage when you are online . To send a message , you only need to set the receiving address an , or some phone numbers related to the ID . Of course , you network must be well enough to connect to .
Create a gmail or hotmail account as these have a web interface , and send the text as email to said account .
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
If it was archived on your Mac , you can find it by date . Navigate to Open the relevant dated folder &amp; any conversations for that day will be listed by the contact names . Double-clicking will open it in Messages .
It has two and yes , you can make the controller that connects to the SuperDrive spot the primary controller and run your MacBook Pro exclusively off a drive attached to this controller . I 'm writing this from a MacBook Pro that has an SSD installed into the SuperDrive spot using an OWC DataDoubler bracket . This is the primary drive in my machine and the mechanical drive has come and gone from the machine without any issues . The machine still booted , ran from my SSD in the SuperDrive spot .
end question
start question
How to stop iPad/Safari from treating certain numbers as ' phone numbers ' ?
In the of your web pages , add : There 's lots more where this came from at <URL> .
The easiest ( and free ) way would be to upgrade your system to OSX 10.9 ( Mavericks ) ; they actually built this into the newest version of Safari which is included . If you do n't want to venture down that route , there are a few Safari extensions you can use to accomplish your goal . ClickToPlugin and/or ClickToFlash <URL> YouTube5 extension - blocks them by not supporting them <URL> 3 : AdBlock Plus - follow the development builds page ( the 2nd link ) to see when they release their version for Safari - I know it 's delayed right now but still in development , You 'll need to google this as I do n't have enough rep to post more than 2 links , sorry . Personally I run Mavericks , but also use ClickToPlugin ; it works for any ads that the newest version of Safari does n't catch .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
<URL> sounds like what you want . From the website : It uses short keywords to allow you to search any site you want , right from the toolbar . ... Just right-click on any search box and choose " Create keyword for this search . " Type in a keyword and KeySearch takes care of the rest . ( I have not used it . )
You could use a software like <URL> to easily achieve your need : Caffeine is a tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Right-click ( or ⌘ - click ) the icon to show the menu .
There are a number of methods an app can use to uniquely identify a device or user . Transitory ( persistent whilst app is installed ) Unique identifier generated by the app and saved in a property list or other equivalent storage in the app sandbox 's Library or Documents folder . Hashed login or equivalent to determine user . CFUUID ( <URL> ) identifierForVendor ( <URL> ) Permanent MAC address of device ( not recommended by Apple for these purposes ) . Advertising Identifier ( can be reset in Settings ; <URL> ) . Depreciated UDID ( <URL> )
So , the answer should be the Glims . Either uninstall the Glims , or config the GLims not to organize the downloading into dated folder .
Ok , I figured this out last night . Due to a weird flaw in the Inspector , I did n't notice this before . If you intend to download anything loaded via a plugin you must have the inspector open before you have the plugin load the resource . This is easiest when the site does not autoload/play a video or music file . <URL> is particularly helpful in this regard . Enable the debug menu if you have n't . ( Preferences > Advanced ) Go to the web page of the resource you want . ( e.g. <URL> ) Pull up the inspector . ⌘ ⌥ A now pulls up the Inspector . Now load the resource you want to download . Back to the inspector , look at the list of files . Look for audio , video , etc under the Other folder . Select the resource you want , then look to the right of the window under location and copy the full URL . Open the Download window ( ⌘ ⌥ L ) Paste the URL in the Downloads window to download . So now there are just a few extra steps , but the paste to the downloads still works as before .
You did n't mention which version of Numbers you were using . Here are general directions to create a custom cell format in both <URL> and <URL> . In Numbers ' 09 , once in the Custom Number Format dialog , drag a few integer elements into the format box . Pull the menu down for each , and choose Hide separator . On the appropriate groups , change the number of digits to two . If you 're not mixing with USD and prefer India 's conventions , a much simpler approach is in the <URL> . Choose India from the Region menu , and any cells set to Currency format will not only have the correct symbol , but the correct groupings . Of course , then if you want USD formatted correctly , you 'd need a custom format for that - so use whichever region is most appropriate to the bulk of your content .
An iPad does n't offer the same capabilities as a Wacom graphics tablet . At best -- Eazel excepted -- you 'll only be able to control the cursor on the mac or pc . There are many of those types of programs for the iPad in iTunes from the free touch mouse ( iPhone only ) to iTeleport ( iPad , US$ 25 ) . Graphics tablets are n't that expensive , especially compared to an iPad . The cheapest Wacom tablet in the USA goes for $ 200 or so . Ask someone you know to give you one for your birthday or appropriate holiday . If you know enough people , you might even be able to find one for free . I gave away my old Wacom Graphire last year when I bought a new Intuos . Ebay shows used Graphires for a variety of prices ; make sure used tablets include the pen and mouse . I also have made video tutorials using a graphics tablet and Photoshop . I have not settled on which video capture software to use . There are too many for me recommend one .
In Calendar.app , you can right-click on any calendar , and choose Get Info . From here you can select Ignore Alerts
No , you can not , for a number of reasons : Most ( when I say most , I mean all but a few ) Jailbreak tweaks modify files outside of your user profile . This is a separate partition and can not be accessed unless you have root access ( you have to be Apple or you have to be Jailbroken ) . Jailbreaking , from a low-level point-of-view , simply makes it so you can run unsigned code on iOS , which allows you to break out of the sandbox environment in . This allows you to install Cydia , modify system files , and gain root access . If you notice in your iOS browser on your computer , you can only access things in ( or it might even call it , because that 's what a sandbox does - it 's ) . Even if the file browser is cool enough to read on your true , it 's not going to be able to write . With that being said , you 're going to have to Jailbreak in order to install Jailbreak tweaks . Note : I have n't used Phone Disk , but iFunBox is pretty much the same thing .
I found the following <URL> at Apple that has the answer to my own question : The default table styles are always taken from the table style list that you choose from the panel on the bottom-left corner of the screen . The solution to my problem is to use the Create New Table Style command under the Format menu and adding a brand new table style . As long as this new style remains selected , it is the one that the table will keep as a whole . I have tried this at home and it works as advertised .
From Apple 's <URL> ( emphasis added ) : If you ca n't access the device that shared the tab , the tab will automatically be cleared from the list after 14 days if the tab is n't updated . So , any leftover tabs should be gone after two weeks .
Tricky one , but you can rig up a solution - I 'm not sure about the final quality though . First , you need to allow your iPad to use AirPlay Mirroring with your iMac as the target device . To do this , you need to use a program like <URL> ( $ 15 for a single user license ) or <URL> ( $ 15 again , but has a trial at least ) or <URL> ( Free , but not as fully featured ) or <URL> ( Similarly beta ) . Mountain Lion will have this feature built in , potentially . When this installed , check you can get it to work - so ensure the iPad and iMac are on the same wireless network , and turn on Airplay Mirroring , pointing it at the correct host : You should get a window displaying the contents on your Mac . Note , than even if you are using the top of the line iMac , the resolution of the iPad will still be too large to view without scaling , so expect some downscaling , either by the airplay protocol or the receiving app anyway , simply to ensure it fits on your screen . Given a choice , a neat halving to get the original 1024x768 resolution should suffice . The method of doing this will be different depending on which app you end up using . Once you have a window running with out iPad screen in it , you can capture it with Quicktime . I note that you already use ScreenFlow ( which I missed at first ) , so you can do this your own way , but for everyone else you can do it with build in tools like Quicktime . I am going to assume you are on Lion . Open up Quicktime Player , and go Hit the big red recording button , and you get the message Drag a neat square over your Airplay receiving window , adjusting as required to get a neat fit , then hit the record button in the middle , and do your stuff . CAVEAT : Lots of things can affect quality using this method . Your wireless network may be slow , resulting in dropped frames or lag when recording . Your computer may be slow , or busy , resulting in dropped frames etc etc etc. . Quicktime ( if you use it ) is already by definition recording a compressed video , not raw , and it 's using an image source on your screen that is already displaying a video that has been compressed down from Retina resolution to something saner for desktop use . This method works , but the resulting video quality can vary wildly depending on your setup . You can mitigate to an extent with thoughtful configuration of your network and so on , or by using more expensive screen capture solutions that record raw etc , that but is up to you to decide how much quality you need . As it stands , the test video I put up was more than sufficient to be perfectly pleasant on YouTube . Now , time to own up , I can not get it to work with the free versions on offer , but I have in the past , so I 'm throwing the solution up anyway , in case it 's just me being stupid . I have used the trial version ( limited to 10 minutes ) of Reflector though , and created the following video as an example , proving it can be done , but you may need to cough up for paid software to do so : <URL> EDIT : Since this answer was accepted , many of the software solutions listed have included screen recording directly within the airdisplay software , negating the need to arrange a separate quicktime screen recording , and potentially improving quality .
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
I can provide half an answer . I 'm not sure how to get the SMS out of the Nokia backup , but you wo n't be able to copy them to the new iPhone directly . You 'll need to write a script to translate them to the iPhone format . I provide instructions below how to reverse engineer the iPhone SMS DB . The iPhone SMS DB is sqlite3 . If your iPhone is jailbroken , you can get and view the DB on the phone itself ( install terminal ) or on your desktop : If your phone is not jailbroken , you can operate on the backup up SMS DB , replace the backup locally and then restore the iPhone . The backup is located in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , is named : Although comments below indicate that may not always be the name of the file . Run the sqlite3 command above to dump this to ASCII to understand the format , then replicate this format with whatever tools you want from your Nokia DB . Here are some instructions on how to migrate your SMS in the reverse direction for Android : <URL> An iPhone database extractor : <URL>
I can think of a variety of methods to do what you want , but none of them are easy solutions . You 'll probably need to write some code . This question should be tagged PBX , but that is too obscure for this site . You 'll probably want installed to control the G5 modem . Get it via or . If you can use minicom to check the number without answering , then you are mostly done . If it does n't match , ignore it . If it does match , you 'll need to find some way for minicom to answer/forward/pass the incoming call out the modem out line . I 'm not yet sure how to do this . If minicom needs to answer the call in order to determine where it came from , then the situation is as above , but you might need two modems . If it is a call for the security center , pass it out one modem . If it is n't , pass it out the other , which goes to your home phone I presume . If minicom can not determine the number , or if can but has to answer in order to check it and this is problematic , then I would get a caller ID display , put it in next to the G5 , and use a webcam to read the numbers off the caller ID . <URL> would help with this part , or any script-able optical character recognition ( OCR ) software . You can get from fink or macports too , and that might be sufficient . Determine the number and if it should go to the security console , have minicom patch it through . But , why do you need to call in ? If your G5 is at home and online , it might be easier to not call into the security system , but SMS or email yourself , have the G5 fetching the mail , and taking action based on that ( perhaps that action is using minicom to connect to the security system , but you do n't need a phone line to the outside world in this case ) .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
end question
start question
Keynote 6.0 - How to add animated gif ?
If you change the extension to then drag it over , it 'll ask you to optimize for iOS , at which point it will treat the GIF as a movie .
You could use the one that 's built into <URL> ... ( which is a viable replacement for Terminal anyway , if you do n't know it yet )
I do n't think there is an option for this . So you will have to manually number all slides in order to keep the slide/page number the same for several of them .
I did a google search finding this thread because I had the same issue as Bill Nace . I didnt find the answer anywhere so I thought I would share how I resolved it after trial and error . Keynote seems to open the presentation on the display with the highest resolution . Since my ' projector ' display was the largest resolution when I would open a new keynote file it would open on that screen and then I would have to drag it back to the ' laptop ' screen for any editing before starting the presentation . I increased the ' laptop ' screen resolution and the keynote files started opening on that screen .
Well Adobe Reader 's slow page scrolling is simply unbearable . In the end I decided to use <URL> , which a lot of people seem to be using as default PDF viewer on OS X already . I 'll only use Adobe Reader if I 'm dealing with very important/complicated document , or if I want to change the background color of the document when I read .
No - the playlists only get curated from the playlist tab . The iPods with physical buttons have an " add to playlist " functionality that worked this way but there 's nothing yet in iOS 4 or less to do a similar thing . The drawback there is everything got added to the " on the go " playlist - not an arbitrary one .
First , open the trash can by clicking on it in the Dock . In the Finder , press Command-shift-G ( go to folder ) and go to ~ / . Trash In the Finder window for . Trash , click the proxy icon in the title bar of the window and drag it to the sidebar . You then have a trash folder in your sidebar . To empty the trash from the sidebar , open Automator and create an application . As the sole action in the application , select " Run AppleScript " and use this AppleScript : Save the application as " Empty Trash " , and drag it to the sidebar .
You could also create an Automator workflow with just an empty New Reminders Item action and then run it with . See also <URL> .
Yes , this can be done without OnyX . First head to System Preferences > Desktop &amp; Screen Saver > Screen Saver and select one of the screen savers included in OS X , or a third party screen saver that you 've previously installed . Whichever one you choose , just make sure it 's selected as the active screen saver , even if you have it set to never start in the " Start After " duration drop-down menu . Next , launch Terminal ( located in the Applications > Utilities folder ) , copy and paste the following command , and press the Return key on your keyboard to execute it : Source : <URL>
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
You can use a service created by Automator to call your python script . Once your service is created , it will be available in the service submenu of your contextual menu .
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
Turns out , according to several sources you ca n't do it . You would need to separate the lines ( i.e. not use connection lines ) .
I 'd say there are basically three things that impact the file size of a GIF . The number of colors in the GIF -- The more colors there are in a GIF , the higher the file size . The dimensions of the GIF -- Tumblr requires the width to be less than 500px , so at least start there . I think around 450px is a great size . However , do n't forget you can use the crop feature to just highlight the action . The number of frames -- The number of frames you can use is highly dependent on the above two points . The three items above mirror <URL> and you can use the GifBrewery preferences to help reduce the colors by processing it lightly or using dithering algorithms :
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
Keynote for iPad does n't support links inside the presentation itself ( per Apple 's <URL> ) . Or at least it does n't currently ; KN/iPad is already a lot better than it was when it first shipped .
You would have to use something like <URL> , or a <URL> . There are no AppleScript dictionaries for <URL> . Which means you would not be able to do it in AppleScript .
LICEcap is free ( GPL ) , works on MacOSX , and capture animated GIF directly . <URL> It 's never too late ;-)
The Safari Extension <URL> allows you to change the search engine used by the Safari search bar/unibar , without any hack-ish stuff such as changing the hosts file .
Go to Setttings > General > Keyboard . Tap Edit in the top right corner . Tap Add New Shortcut . Type the word you wanted to add to the dictionary in the Phrase field . You can also optionally add a shortcut . Add a shortcut with the Phrase TE and the shortcut te . This will auto-capitalise te to TE . It will also prevent it from auto-correcting to the .
end question
start question
How to clear browser cache for just one specific site in Mobile Safari ?
I do n't know if this is exactly what you want , but if you open Settings , then click on Safari , then scroll down and click on Advanced , then click on Website Data you will get a list of websites that have stored data . You can click Edit then remove the data from just the sites that you want to remove stored data from .
You do n't . ( not without jail breaking iOS ) More sadly , we 've gone from the situation on iOS 4 - > 5 - > 6 - > iOS 7 and still can not choose what certificates are trusted by the OS . This is either a bug in the iPhone configuration utility or an unimplimented feature . If you care , do reach out to apple to ask for this . <URL> or <URL> Unless you are comfortable writing a technically correct bug , the feedback link is a better avenue . Calling AppleCare or asking for this at the genius bar might also be worthwhile .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
You can start Firefox directly in a private window , at least two ways , in a Terminal . The first is using the command . In a Terminal , type and press Enter for a synopsis of the command . Note : When passing command line arguments to the application being opened by the command they go with and after the argument . Another way is to use the fully qualified pathname of the Firefox executable , e.g. : See <URL> for additional arguments when starting Firefox from the command line . It 's better to use the command because while the use of the ampersand at the end of the command line will allow the prompt to return in the Terminal nonetheless closing the Terminal will also close Firefox , where it does n't terminate Firefox started with the command when the Terminal is closed .
I do n't think you can do this in Safari on the iPhone but you could use a 3rd party browser app . Many of those will let you set the browser agent . One browser I know does this is ' Atomic Web Browser ' . This may not work in all cases as some websites may use other ways of determining which content to show , for example , some will detect the screen dimensions . I 've tried this on my iPhone with Atomic Web Browser . Within the browser , I went to settings , ' Identify browser as ' and selected ' Safari Desktop ' . Then I went to nascar.com and tapped on the nascar logo . It showed me the desktop version of the page . I checked in mobile safari and doing the same indeed took me to a mobile version .
I have found it myself . It 's already built in in OS X . In System Preferences , goto Network and at the top of the window , you can see a combobox which says : Location . You have to click it and select Edit Locations . At this picture I have already created my Home Network . Create and configure the Home network . And click Apply afterwards . Close the window . From now on you can choose which configuration ( or Location ) you want to use by opening the Apple-menu ( ) in the Menu Bar . And choose from the Location submenu .
There 's dreadfully few tweaks that can be applied to Dock , and none of the ones I know can modify the behavior of a single click on an app icon . What I would do in this situation is to assign a special gesture , say a four-finger click , to an applescript . The applescript will perform the task you want , which , in this case , is to bring up only the window of the app under cursor . To do this , you do n't know need to know how to write a script - the script is here . You however need to know how to create custom gestures , enable Accessibility , etc. . The best way to do this is the app BetterTouchTool . This script essentially find the app icon under cursor , right-click it for you , and click the window item with a check mark to its left . You will see the contextual menu flash for a brief second . This script is tested on Yosemite .
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
As stated in the article linked in the question : Anyone who used FileVault encryption on their Mac prior to Lion , upgraded to Lion , but kept the folders encrypted using the legacy version of FileVault is vulnerable . FileVault 2 ( whole disk encryption ) is unaffected . The password shows up in . To look for it , log in as an Administrator , open Terminal.app and run Have a look at the result ( if any ) to see whether passwords appear in plain text . For additional information see <URL> <URL>
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
Having an MDM does n't change the permissions and app deletion behavior on iOS so it only facilitates getting a redemption code onto the device . What really matters is who signed the app . If the app is signed from Apple - then it does n't matter if it came from iTunes , iCloud restore , MDM or Apple 's app store . A user can either delete all apps or no apps based on the iOS profile in force . Now , for enterprise signed apps ( or developer signed apps ) , you can tie a signing certificate or trust chain to a configuration profile and ensure that apps signed by that cert get deleted when the profile is deleted . So a user can decide to remove one app or remove all apps or remove the profile . But the user ca n't remove the profile and have the apps remain . This is a nice general overview . If you select a particular MDM solution ( Casper , AirWatch , Mobile Iron , etc. . ) or just use iPhone Configuration utility or Apple Configurator - you can re-ask this to nail down your particular deployment scenario and we can dive deeper into what you seek to accomplish .
This <URL> what you are looking for . As expected there is no file size limit , the answer is more complex and depends on the device memory and image compression algorithm used : The maximum size for decoded GIF , PNG , and TIFF images is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM . That is , ensure that width * height ≤ 3 * 1024 * 1024 for devices with less than 256 MB RAM . Note that the decoded size is far larger than the encoded size of an image . The maximum decoded image size for JPEG is 32 megapixels using subsampling . JPEG images can be up to 32 megapixels due to subsampling , which allows JPEG images to decode to a size that has one sixteenth the number of pixels . JPEG images larger than 2 megapixels are subsampled -- that is , decoded to a reduced size . JPEG subsampling allows the user to view images from the latest digital cameras . The maximum size for a canvas element is 3 megapixels for devices with less than 256 MB RAM and 5 megapixels for devices with greater or equal than 256 MB RAM .
Yes , you have a choice of three built in methods for clearing the clipboard . AppleScript/Automator are two simple methods for programmatically manipulating the clipboard . Here 's a little script that does what you want . Also , Automator allows the same . You 'll need to define a variable , double click on the name text to set it to null , and then drag in the set clipboard action before running / saving it . The benefit of using automator is that you can assign it as a service and then use system keyboard shortcuts to call it . For AppleScript or one of the nice terminal answers here that use you might want to look at a free tool like <URL> to launch the action from anywhere .
As of iOS 5.1 Mobile Safari no longer opens your bookmarks folder when you start it on your iPhone . It shows you the empty browser screen and you have to click on the bookmarks icon to bring up the bookmarks list .
You should n't need to disable bluetooth on any recent Apple product - their antennas and drivers are very well engineered , and if you can demonstrate a slow down , you could get it repaired ( most likely under warranty ) since that 's not normal . It is good troubleshooting - especially if your router is on 2.4 GHz . First off , there may not be a problem . If you hold down the option key when you select the Wireless icon in the menu bar - take note of the transmit rate , MCS and other data . What PHY mode is your radio ? What band is your router ? What <URL> ? Secondly , you can run the tests with the Wi-Fi Diagnostic that sits in / System/Library/CoreServices to check on the logs , check signal to noise ratio and much more . If you are regularly transferring large amounts of data , you might need the higher MCS data rates - but it 's rare to find a modern router ( AirPort , Cisco/Linksys , etc ... ) that does n't work very well with Macs . Usually it 's an interference issue with spectrum and not that the hardware is n't properly matched . It 's hard to tell without doing the work several days in a row to collect network conditions and graphs - but hopefully this helps you decide if/when to get a new router if that 's the solution you choose .
Do you mean reviews of Apple-produced ( and only Apple-produced ) hardware and software ? Or reviews of software and accessories by anyone for Macs , iPods , iPhones , iPads , etc. ? If the latter , there 's always <URL> . If the former , you could combine the RSS feeds for Macworld 's <URL> + <URL> + <URL> + <URL> , I guess .
Moving data is dependant on the application that manages it , e.g. if it 's a database you could do a dump and restore it on the new installation , if it 's a configuration file just copy it , etc. . HomeBrew packages create the config files for launchd in the <URL> ( read : formula 's install dir ) and at the end of the install process display an how-to install those files ( the method in formulas source ) which generally is a simple and sequence . <URL> is indeed easy , and the developers will happily accept your new or updated formulas . <URL> is , In summary : , , , , , Last but not least : take a look at the <URL> .
Hold down your finger in the address bar to get the little magnifier to show up , finally drag your finger to the right or left to get to the part of the url that you want to edit .
end question
start question
Why my photos are missing in iPhoto events but not in Aperture projects ?
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
iOS 5 and iCloud should be coming out tomorrow . There should be improvements in this area . Hopefully this will help you . I know it is not what you would want to hear , but I have seen disappearing content like you describe . Especially with Exchange , and OS 10.6.x
There are two possible answers here : You are both sharing the same iCloud / . me / . mac account . Look in System Preferences > iCloud > [ Account Details ] on both systems to compare . That your wife has shared a Photo Stream with you . Run iPhoto and look at the left hand sidebar in the section named ' Shared ' .
When you do this , you should get a dropdown selection box that has your various email addresses in it . You can choose in there . If your gmail does n't show up there , then go to iPhoto in the menu , click Preferences , click Accounts , click the plus , click Email , click Add , click Gmail , and provide the relevant info .
This is fine ! Go ahead ! Symlinks or hard links are followed by the system , so you 're free to create them within any of those folders , or indeed the folder itself .
Yup , you are safe to delete it , just as long as you did n't add anything important to it .
In contrast to Lizzan , I suggest you do it with iPhoto . So the answer is yes , you can do it with iPhoto . The reason why I suggest it is because iPhoto never destroys your image ! It keeps the original image as it is and saves your changes to a separate file . You can always restore your original image . I do n't know the OS you 're using but prior to ( I think ) Lion there is no Version feature so returning to your original image is impossible . So here 's how you do it : <URL> You could crop the region you like and then save it as a new image . Then go back to your original and take the next region ...
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
iPhoto Photos Location iPhoto stores photos and meta-data in the user 's home folder : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library Within this folder , the original photos are stored at : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library/Masters Bulk Copy with rsync If the user name was , the <URL> all the original photos to the local desktop would be :
I just had the same problem and I solved it . My iPhone apps were very often in German but my iPhone was in Swedish . The problem is : I believe that your iPad 's secondary language is set to Russian ( Apps display in the first language they find on your list for which they have a localization included ) . So I believe that if you change your secondary language you should have apps in your desired language . To change secondary language , go to Settings > General > International > Language and choose whatever language you want ( presumably English in your case ) as secondary language . Then , when the language is set , switch back to your original language and you shall be all set .
Xcode will usually do this if this style of window is the last to be closed . If this is the case the your window looks like this : Then it can be fixed simply by doing the following : And finally select what side bars you want to be visible :
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
Photos does not actually move the files or duplicate them when importing from an existing iPhoto or Aperture library . It simply creates <URL> to the files in their original location from the new Photos library . See how <URL> on Apple 's site . More on hard links from <URL> : A hard link is simply a reference to some data on disk . Think of a file as a combination of a name and a pointer to some data . Deleting a file really means deleting the name portion of that duo . When there are no more names pointing to a particular piece of data disk , then that disk space can be reused . " You can delete your Aperture library without any problems , however you will no longer be able to use Aperture ( unless you set up a new library ) . Any changes made in your existing Aperture library will not appear in Photos , and vice-versa . Basically the actual image exists somewhere on the disk , and there are two pointers to the image ( one from the old library and one from the new library ) . So long as at least one of those pointers exists , the data is kept . But when the last pointer is removed ( i.e. the old iPhoto library itself is removed , then the image is removed from the Photos library ) , the data is also removed .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
Google calendars other than your default calendar are treated as delegated calendars by iCal . To get them to open in the main screen go to iCal > Preferences > Accounts , select your google account , click the tab for Delegation , then check the boxes next to the calendars you want to display in your main calendar window . Now in the upper left hand corner of the iCal window , click the Calendars button which brings up the pop-up allowing you to select which calendars are visible . Check the box for the calendars you want to view . You can return to this pop up at any time to change the calendars you 're seeing at any given time .
The LTE toggle shows up when your carrier settings indicate LTE is available for your device . If you have data , you can update OTA by going to Settings > General > About and waiting ( or tapping on your current carrier settings to see the details ) . A tethered check is also available by connecting your iPhone to iTunes and <URL> for your provider . If there is n't , the most likely explanation is that your provider has not enabled LTE in their carrier settings . If so , contact your provider on whether any LTE ( even if not theirs ) will work on your iPhone .
Short answer ... No . There is no public API that manages the " Do Not Disturb " feature . There are also no frameworks that can achieve this . Googling would also say it 's not the kind of sandbox breakout Apple would be likely to allow in the future , either .
Since Lion , in addition to storing Retina icons , it seems that an alias stores its many different sizes of icons in both the data and the resource fork ( the xattr com.apple.ResourceFork ) . Possibly in a move away from Resource forks , while still supporting previous OSes ( for now ) . The alias I just created contained the follow formats : is32 , s8mk , ic11 , il32 , l8mk , ic12 , ic07 , ic13 , ic08 , ic14 , ic09 , ic10 They are described here : <URL>
In the current , iOS 5 version , of Game Center , in order for friends in common to appear ( as " shared friends " ) , they must also have upgraded to iOS 5 ( and have accepted the new ToS ) .
No , there is no way to sort on size in iPhoto . From your context I guess you mean filesize . In iPhoto , size means the dimensions on the Photo ( length by breadth , measured in pixels ) - see the Export dialogue , for instance . iPhoto is all about the images and not the files that contain them , so I 'm not surprised . It 's a $ 15 app , you get a lot , but not everything .
end question
start question
How can I prevent my Mac from periodically whooshing at me ?
Could it be the sound alerts Messages has configured by default ? I 'm particularly thinking about the sound when a contact comes online/goes offline , which sound like a " whoosh " . You can check and disable these sound alerts individually for each event in the Messages preferences .
Ok , so further to my previous answer , I can walk you through getting cron ( a built in UNIX schedule service ) to run a scheduled shutdown command for you . It will run as root and will be forced . Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal ) Input You 'll need to enter your login password and then press enter . You 'll now be in a text editor ( vim ) . Carefully input the following keystrokes . Press i once ( this will allow you to enter text ) Let 's say you want the machine to shutdown at 2am every day , we 'd now enter : If you wanted the machine to shutdown at 2:30 am every day , you 'd enter : When you 've typed this in , press esc Then press shift + z shift + z ( that 's uppercase " z " twice , to writes the changes and quit the editor ) You should now be dropped back to the command line where you started . You 're done !
Yes . Go to System Preferences → Spotlight and uncheck the box for the Spotlight window keyboard shortcut . Alternatively , replace the shortcut with a different shortcut . You can also enable/disable/modify the shortcut through System Preferences → Keyboard → Spotlight → Show Spotlight Window :
Get It is now exported . What format do you want the export to be ? The existing format is sqlite , so you can convert it to ASCII like so : For step one , you can jailbreak and then scp , or you can just search your backup folder for the file , no jailbreak required . If your phone is not jailbroken , look on OS X in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , although not in all cases , is named : To answer your other questions : Any OS , Free , Successful .
If you 're running OS X Lion , you need you use ... <URL> The other post only refers to InsomniaX 1 - which does not work in Lion .
Your Mac will only automatically join Wi-Fi networks which are in its preferred networks list . If the non-secure network is not in that list , it will not join it . If you want to be prompted to join a network when no " known " network is available , turn on " Ask to join new networks . " However , if you do not turn on " Ask to join new networks " then your Mac will not automatically join the non-secure networks , it will simply stay disconnected without prompting you . So there is no need to ' blacklist ' a network because it will not join it unless you tell it to join it . Unfortunately there is also no way to tell your MacBook not to present it as an option . The best you can do is require an administrator password before it can be joined :
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
The behavior that you 've described appears to be a limitation of the Safari mobile browser . Other users have complained about the Safari Mobile auto refresh behavior on several Apple community forum posts . This <URL> offers some explanations and potential solutions : This is not a feature ... It 's a limitation . MobileSafari keeps website cache only in RAM , and therefore , once it runs out of RAM , it 'll automatically destroy an entire page , forcing the refresh , disguising itself as an auto-refresh feature . You can only keep at most 3 pages open at any time ... Even the iPhone 4 with double the amount of RAM can only keep 5 pages . You can try a third-party browser that has offline caching , and it 'll remedy the situation . Or alternatively , use the swap file mod I posted in the jailbreak forums and it should work , too . These third-party browsers have offline page caching as far as I know : <URL> ( also supports concurrent tab , which means you can browse websites while listening to music on youtube , this is my personal favourite ) <URL> ( many useful features , but the interface is a bit strange ) <URL> ( cool browser that looks like a shrunk version of desktop Safari ) Your choices appear to be : Use a jailbreak mod to increase the swap file size ( hopefully will increase number of pages that can be stored ) Use a third party browser that supports offline caching
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
If the problem you 're experiencing is that the iPad connections trigger a New iPad activation dialog , you can turn this off by typing this terminal command when iTunes is not running : You can turn on the new iPad Activation dialog with this command : Remember , iTunes can not be running when either of these commands is run .
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
You can go to Settings > Notifications > Messages and change the Repeat Alert option to Never . This will stop it from bugging you twice !
You are probably dealing with an AutoRecover issue . The Office programs will try to reopen documents that are open when the programs crash ( a Force Quit is essentially a crash to the programs ) . <URL> explains what 's going on and how to recover from the problem . To quote the relevant part : AutoRecover saves files in the folder . These files are hidden , and their file names starts with . You can see hidden files if you navigate to the folder above in Finder , type ⌘ F , and choose FIle Invisible from the Kind dropdown - if that 's not an option , choose Other ... , and check the File Invisible checkbox - and set it to Invisible . Try making the hidden files visible , then moving them to the Desktop , then start Excel . Of course , if you 're using Office 2004 or Office 2011 , they will have their own AutoRecovery folders .
<URL> is a few years old , and I 've not tried it , but it should do what you want .
Unfortunately this is something that is n't possible . As you are aware , the only control we have over any double-clicking in the " Double-Click Speed " in Mouse preferences . Any changes here would be undesirable as it would affect the entire system and your goal is just the Messages app . There is a convenient keyboard shortcut , Command + W , to close the new window that comes up , so at least you do n't have to go over and manually close the window . I suppose this is a feature request that does n't come up very often but you could at least do what you can and <URL> .
Hold the shift key as the user log in process starts . You need to hop on the shift key quickly if you enter a password right after pressing return , get on the shift . If your account logs in automatically , look to get on the shift when you see the gray screen with the dark grey apple logo . Next comes the blue screen and then the graphical user log in portion . If you hold the shift too early ( before the Apple logo ) you will have a <URL> ( not what you want ) A safe boot has much more temporarily disabled than just the user log in items . See the <URL> for more information about items that open automatically at start up and how the shift key trick works .
From a window : <URL>
Try <URL> Easily transfer photos and videos between iPhone , iPad , Android and Computer . No cables or extra software required . $ 2.99 in the app store .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
end question
start question
How can I show the desktop from full screen apps ?
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
To enter or exit Fullscreenmode of your VM you can press [ Command ] + [ Control ] + [ F ] .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
To expand on <URL> answer , we do this in South AFrica quite often . Register a US account using a valid US Address ( The US Yellow Pages Helps ) Do not register a credit card Download free apps , books , music etc. . Purchase US iTunes gift cards online and load onto account Buy software , books and music . Please note , South Africa has a severely restricted App Store , and we can not purchase games , music or books any other way , and due to legal issues with classification of items , will most likely never be able too
You can look <URL> for instructions . Essentially , set your preferred screen saver in the Screen Saver preference pane and run this command in the Terminal to see the screen saver on the desktop :
File > Export > Export Unmodified Original ... will export a full size image to the folder of your choice .
Usually apps do n't place themselves in the dock without your consent or knowledge . There are a couple ways to put them there though . Perhaps you may not realize it , but it may be one of these reasons : The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon installation . Note : Lion will not do this though ; it simply places it in Launchpad . The App Store will place an app in the Dock upon updating an app . Note : Updating an non-docked app individually via the updates tab is when it gets re-placed in the dock . However using the ' Update All ' button at the top of the page will not do any such thing . Again , this is changed in Lion . If you run an app that is not kept in the dock and drag it to another position anywhere on the dock , it will stay in the dock Drag an app into the dock from Finder Right click an app in the dock an under options select ' Keep in Dock '
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
All Apple 's hardware &amp; software product agreements can be found at : <URL> Here 's straight link to <URL> . Answers to your particular interests can both be found under § 2 . B : [ ... ] you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running Mac OS X Snow Leopard or Mac OS X Snow Leopard Server ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ; [ ... ] ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software .
Remove rating for one song The app <URL> allows to edit a song 's info manually . I 've successfully tried version 0.14 in Lion . Remove ( suppress ) ratings for all songs You can choose to not show explicit labels for all songs in the parental controls of iTunes : iTunes Preferences - > Parental - > Show content ratings in library
( Sorry for the lack of screenshots ; I 'm writing from a Windows machine right now ) Go to Mail > Preferences > Rules Click " Add Rule " For Description , enter " BCC " For the conditions , select " Any Recipient " " Does not contain " and enter your address in the third field For action , select " Set Color " " of background " " Purple " ( or whatever color you chose ) and click OK . From then on , incoming messages not sent " To : " or " CC : " you will be marked in that color .
Ha ! Found it ! then map CMD to CTRL :
There are two options . One is a setting , and the other is a workaround . Here are instructions on how to toggle the setting using the Menu Bar : Go into the View menu . Select " Show status bar " . Now , there will be a URL that pops up when you hover over a link , and also tells you if it 's going to be in a new tab : <URL> You can also press ⌘ + / to toggle this setting at ease . The second option is a workaround for when you drag links . Here 's how to get this feature to appear : Click and drag the link out of where it will originally appear . At your mouse will be a small box telling you the title of the new window and its URL , although it may be shortened . You can also drag the link to the plus sign in your tab list , out of the window , or in a folder/the desktop to open that URL in a new tab , new window or save it to your computer , respectively .
There 's dreadfully few tweaks that can be applied to Dock , and none of the ones I know can modify the behavior of a single click on an app icon . What I would do in this situation is to assign a special gesture , say a four-finger click , to an applescript . The applescript will perform the task you want , which , in this case , is to bring up only the window of the app under cursor . To do this , you do n't know need to know how to write a script - the script is here . You however need to know how to create custom gestures , enable Accessibility , etc. . The best way to do this is the app BetterTouchTool . This script essentially find the app icon under cursor , right-click it for you , and click the window item with a check mark to its left . You will see the contextual menu flash for a brief second . This script is tested on Yosemite .
Mac OS does n't have a terminal services centric design , so the loginwindow ties the remote screen resolution tightly to the actual physical screen dimensions . Some easy solutions are to connect the Mac to a display ( or a display dongle that simulates a plug and play monitor of a resolution of your choosing to the OS ) so that the OS allocates a larger pixel boundary when the user logs in . Alternatively , you could get software like <URL> to force the display to a size of your choosing .
Install QT 7 from <URL> and open your movie with QT7 . Then open Preferences and select Fullscreen tab and click on your second display . Update : Movist is a great player . You can get it from here : <URL>
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
I found a solution . The following sets the delay to 1 minute . source : <URL>
Yes and No . The game has to support the ability to run in windowed mode . If it does n't support it , then it will not be able to do it . Now , when it comes to games that do n't have the option in an preference menu , they can sometimes still support the feature , they just do n't advertise it . There are a few games that require you to edit a preference file to enable/disable certain things . Usually contained inside the game icon , right clicking on the game icon and hitting " Show Package Contents " will open the game 's directory and show you the files that make the game . Be very careful when doing this because editing the wrong thing can break the game . Usually if this option exists then it will be somewhere on the internet and you will be able to find out more about it by doing a search for that game . One such game that supports this is Cave Story + , editing the preference file can enable certain game modes and unlock features . Other games will work with a shortcut when running , usually : Now , if none of these are viable options , then you wo n't be able to do it . I hope that helps clarify things .
end question
start question
A Cisco AnyConnect VPN alternative on El Capitan ?
OpenConnect works great on El Capitan . I use the text commands to connect to my work VPN . There 's a Gist with a walkthrough of setup instructions using the Homebrew installer : <URL> On El Capitan , the " rootless " protection prevents you from installing the unauthorized " tun tap " kernel driver extension that OpenConnect needs . However , a Mac app called Viscosity comes with a signed ( authorized ) copy of tun tap . Viscosity has a limited trial , but the driver is free . <URL> Install Viscosity and run the app once to get the helper ( driver ) installed . Then use OpenConnect .
If you select an item or items and click on the " File " menu , there 's a " Move to Trash " choice ; however , if you hold down the Option key with that " File " menu open , " Move to Trash " will switch to " Delete Immediately ... " This also works with files already in the Trash .
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
Alternatives for <URL> <URL> Uses OS X binary versions when available Compiles OS X optimized versions Compiling usually faster than with MacPorts Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Tries to separate already installed software from what is installed through ... ... while taking advantage of already installed software and libraries ( e.g. does n't install a working version of Perl twice ) Installing software does n't need root access Actively developed on <URL> <URL> Uses Debian tools like and Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Can be used to install precompiled packages or to compile everything from the source Has a separate directory tree to avoid interference with the system <URL> Last version 2010-04-10 <URL> Has GUI Nothing new on the website since 2008
I followed the guide from <URL> . By holding the option key when adding the files just stay where they are ( external HD ) and can be used in the iTunes library as well . This seems to be the only solution , as with the symlinks/aliases files can not be added to the library .
There is no way to do it through the VPN connector . This setting is determined by the administrator of Cisco/IPSEC VPN endpoint . This not to say that you could not write a script that monitors network traffic and disconnects the client after a prescribed idle time - just that it is not available as a setting or attribute of the VPN connection on the client side .
The <URL> on HaskellWiki has brief instructions for getting Xmonad running on Snow Leopard . You may need to read through the instructions for older versions if some problems arise .
There are several programs that provide NTFS support . However , I would hesitate to claim that any of these programs can provide 100 % compatibility and support . Here 's a subset of the NTFS list in <URL> discussion of OS X file system choices : <URL> - I 've used this program with no issues in Lion and Mountain Lion <URL> - site claims to support Mountain Lion , personally have n't used <URL> - a freeware successor , do n't know if it works with Mountain Lion , personally have n't used I do n't have a retina MBP to test with , but any of these should offer you a good starting point . Since you 've already tried Tuxera , Paragon appears to be your best bet , while OSX Fuse would be a good option to try out .
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
The DNS settings over a VPN connection should be forced by the VPN server . This makes sure DNS queries get routed securely over the VPN , and allows you to see private services on the intranet that may not be exposed as public DNS records . It 's possible the VPN server may not be telling iOS what DNS server to use , something that could be solved by a configuration change in the VPN server ?
The best 3rd-party based solution for you is to use <URL> . About Caffeine : A tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Hold down the Command key while clicking to show the menu .
I do n't know if this option was also available in Snow Leopard , but if you are on Lion you could try the following : Set up the native cisco client - if you do n't know how , you can use <URL> I created a few days back Once you have tried and confirmed that everything works , your VPN connection should show up as one of the options in the Internet Sharing part of Preferences Sharing . select the connection , choose on which network connection you 'd like to share it and you 're done .
Apparently there is no way to do this with mavericks ' Mail.app . The option in the menu is gone and <URL> in the plist file does n't seem to work anymore either , according to <URL> and <URL> . Unfortunately you have to switch to a different mail client if you want to have proper multi-format support . Or , for testing purposes , you could just send you the email in plain text and see how it looks and then verify that both parts are present by looking at the raw mail text ( which Mail.app still lets you do ) .
I have to remove a PGP plug-in from / Library/Mail/Bundles to get the Mail App running again . Just open Mail and immediately open Accounts , disable the accounts one by one to find out which one is causing the crash . Then delete this account completely and restart Mail . Then add the account all over again . It worked on my gmail account .
In terms of hardware , according to <URL> , Mac Minis ( and most other Macs ) since early 2006 come with a 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack and models since mid 2010 also come with an HDMI port , both of which should support multichannel audio if your source material provides it . You can find the specs for your own Mac by clicking the " This Mac " item in the left-hand pane . Specs for the current ( Mid 2011 ) <URL> say : HDMI port supports multichannel audio output and for most of the other models , as an alternative to the 3.5-mm analog/optical combo jack , this <URL> says that you can also use a mini Display port to HDMI adapter to receive multichannel audio and video ( though I 'm not sure what software support for this would be like ) : These computers supply multichannel audio ( up to 8 channels ) and video signals over Mini DisplayPort : MacBook ( Mid 2010 ) and later MacBook Air ( Late 2010 ) and later MacBook Pro ( Mid 2010 ) and later Mac mini ( Mid 2010 ) and later iMac ( Late 2009 ) and later Mac Pro ( Mid 2010 ) To connect your television or other HDMI devices to your Mac , use select third-party Mini DisplayPort to HDMI adapters that conform to the VESA v1 .1 a DisplayPort Interoperability Guidelines Depending on the software player , it should be just a question of connecting the HDMI/optical output to your recevier and getting multichannel output . I use <URL> and get 5.1 surround sound output ( AC3 or DTS ) over HDMI , and I believe the latest " Eden " release supports 7.1 . It also does blu-ray ( rips only , I assume ) , DVD and has an excellent plug-in system which <URL> . Alternatively , <URL> is an another alternative and will do much the same thing . Once you get your media set up , both will work pretty much out-of-the-box . As for a TV tuner , <URL> looks very good .
Finder uses Spotlight to index and search for files and folders . There are several resources that can help you with understanding the way Spotlight indexes files on your Mac . Since you are looking for an exact phrase type of text search , use quotation marks . ( See below ) In Finder select the Help menu and type in Spotlight for further information . <URL> From Apple 's Support site regarding unexpected search results : OS X El Capitan : If searching your Mac does n't return expected results There are several things you can try if a search does n't return the items you expect . Check the text you entered in the search field Make sure the word or phrase is spelled correctly . To search for an exact phrase , enclose it in quotation marks . For example , enter " trip to Paris " to find items that contain that exact phrase . If you do n't use quotation marks , the search results include items that contain those words in any order . Check the location you 're searching If you began your search in Spotlight , the search results can include email , Calendar events , Spotlight Suggestions , information from other apps , and more . If you began your search in a Finder window , the search results include only files and folders on your internal disk . Check your Spotlight preferences You may have removed items from Spotlight search results . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Search Results . You may have excluded certain folders or disks from searches . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Privacy . You may have turned off Location Services for Spotlight Suggestions . For more information , see About Spotlight Suggestions . For more information about Spotlight preferences , see Spotlight preferences .
The secure delete option was removed from El Capitan , but as explained in <URL> , there may be some alternatives you may wish to use ( see below for notes if the Mac has an SSD ) . You can use the disk utility to overwrite the free space on the drive ; Where ; In this command , change LEVEL to a number of 0 through 4 , where 0 is a single-pass of zeros , 1 is a single-pass of random numbers , 2 is a 7-pass erase , 3 is a 35-pass erase , and 4 is a 3-pass erase ( note all non single-pass options may take a while to complete ) . You can consult the man page for more detail on the command usage . Overwrite the contents before the deletion ( from the terminal ) ; Where is to recurse over the folders and will overwrite their contents . The utility provides a mechanism ( from at least Yosemite ) to overwrite and remove files , <URL> ; The indicates verbose mode . Consider using the " Delete Immediately " option that was added to El Capitan . Whilst this may not be the " secure delete " you are looking for , it does skip the trash . It is important to bear in mind that with modern SSD wear levelling , writing to the same location in a file is n't necessarily going to write to the same location on the disk , hence the secure deletion would not always achieve what you wanted ( see <URL> and hence <URL> ) . Given an SSD , the " erase " - ing of the free space is probably the best option , once the files have been deleted and removed from the trash . For those with mechanical disks ( non-SSD ) , the option may be the easiest alternative .
I am downloading it now from the App Store and it seems to be working fine . I did not go through the App Store , but used the following link : <URL> After going to the link there is a section on how to get El Capitan from the App Store if you do not meet the system requirements for MacOS Sierra . Click on that link ( pasted below ) and it will open the App Store to the El Capitan App download section . Simply click on ' Get ' and it will start downloading . <URL>
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
It 's under here . You should still be able to call it directly ( e.g. via Spotlight ) or just use Cmd-K in Finder to initiate a VNC session ( use as address ) .
end question
start question
How to enable display on Dell monitor connected to MacBook Pro when not charging ?
I am happy to tell you that keeping it charging will not damage your MacBook in any way ! There is also a way to do your requested way of streaming data to the monitor . You can use the amazing Apple TV . This is not only for TV 's because you can stream to monitors , and your own TV ! ( which personally is amazing if you have a large flatscreen ! ) However I am not 100 % sure this is compatible with all types of monitors or TV 's so i would recommend just keeping it plugged in because like I said earlier that will not damage your computer . I hope this helped ! The reason your having this problem is because monitors are n't computers . They do n't have wifi , you ca n't connect them to anything wirelessly . Monitors do n't have any form of computational power except for converting computer code to images which still requires being connected to a computer to work .
You can use your thumb to click on the lower part of the track and the index finger to move . As long as you keep the trackpad pressed with the thumb you can release the index finger .
After select pinyin in your input language you can open any editor like textEdit : when you start typing you see the box ( like below box ) and can select your desire word .
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
Yes . Email works well when not connected to internet . You will get warnings that it can not connect to your email accounts . One warning pops up for every email account that you have set up on your device ( and possibly one for all the outgoing servers as well ) . After canceling all of these , you are home free . If you send an email and are not connected to the internet , it will sit in the outbox , and should send automatically as soon as you reach wifi connectivity . ( It may alert you that it failed to send . ) Like you thought , there is an icon that appears for any attachments that are n't downloaded . If you are n't connected to the internet , you wo n't be able to engage the download of the attachment .
The <URL> ( page 136 ) and other Apple documentation ( see bottom ) are not very specific in this regard meaning ... ... they do not state specific minimum currents required for charging . ... they only distinguish between : charging while the iPad is awake ( USB hubs with 1100 mA ; newer Macs/displays ) charging while the iPad is in sleep mode ( USB hubs with 500 mA ; standard USB/old Macs ) Low-battery image or " Not Charging " message appears or When charging , make sure you 're using the 10W USB power adapter that came with iPad or the USB port on a recent Mac . The fastest way to charge is to use the power adapter . For faster charging , turn iPad off . iPad may not charge when connected to the USB port on an older Mac , a PC , a keyboard , or to a USB hub . If your Mac or PC does n't provide enough power to charge iPad , a Not Charging message appears in the status bar . To charge iPad , disconnect it from your computer and connect it to a power outlet using the included Dock Connector to USB Cable and 10W USB power adapter . Also see the following documents : <URL> <URL>
Try moving your Dock to a different screen in System Preferences > Dock > Position on screen . The Application Switcher will open on the same display as the Dock . You can also <URL> by hovering your mouse on the very bottom of the desired display for a moment . The Dock will then rise up and appear on the desired display . ( Note : this only seems to work if the Dock 's Position on Screen setting is Bottom )
<URL> says the 13 " Retina Macbook Pro will happily run with two Thunderbolt displays . Although I have not used it first hand , I would not expect you to have performance issues running the two extra displays . The main retina display is actually drawing 4 times as many pixels as the external displays , and then scaling the image down , so a Thunderbolt display is not going to make much of a difference . As to the scrolling performance , I believe that was <URL>
Carefully move the pointer to the left side of the finder window border till the cursor changes to arrow pointing to the right . ↦ Hold and Drag to the right . If that did not work you need to restore the finders preferences . In terminal run and Restart .
Your MacBook Pro could have various display ports depending on its vintage : Dual-Link DVI for the oldest models Mini DisplayPort on the 15 " from late 2008 , on the 17 " since early 2009 Both can drive a monitor in analog mode ( via a VGA port on your monitor ) or in digital mode ( via a DVI port ) . Most monitors , except really ancient ones , have both connectors . The quality of the image beeing better with a DVI connection I recommend you go this route . All monitors are shipped with a DVI/DVI cable , if not go get one at your nearest cheap PC place . For old MacBook Pro that 's all you need . For more recent models you need to add a adapter . Apple has <URL> , but I do n't like it : It 's really short and put pressure on the port when the computer is used on a support . Not to mention ugly . I bought on ebay a 6 foot Mini DisplayPort/DVI cable for cheap , it 's all digital so you do n't need huge shielding and " super copper wire balanced to give you the best image " . Around 10 quids . Note : Smaller models like the MacBook and the Macbook Air came with different ports : A mini DVI or a micro DVI . For the people reading this with a non " pro " model , make sure you check for those as well ... PS : You can find pictures of the various ports by searching for their names on Wikipedia . I wanted to put the links directly , but apparently I do not have enough reputation to post more than one link :(
Yes , its called " closed clamshell " mode . In short , you 'll need to attach your MBA to a mouse , a keyboard and power : <URL>
If the USB cord is not plugged into anything on the other end it should not be drawing any power that would be worth speaking of . However if you are talking about the USB charger box that converts a normal power outlet to USB power to charge your iPhone then yes , those do draw power as long as they are plugged in . You can tell as they get very warm even when not charging . It is recommended to unplug any electronics when they are not in use to save power , however I do not do this unless I am not using it for a few days .
You can . All you need is an app such as <URL> .
Windows According to <URL> : Windows 7 by default starts up at 800 x 600 on the Retina MBP , Windows 8 defaults to 1024 x 768 . This behavior is n't specific to this system , the GeForce GT 650M does n't have native driver support in either OS at this point and these are the defaults for the standard VGA driver in both cases . Windows 7 wo n't expose any resolutions higher than 1600 x 1200 without an actual NVIDIA driver , while Windows 8 will let you select the full 2880 x 1800 panel resolution . This is a report about Windows via bootcamp . I do n't know how this differs from Windows being used in a virtual machine . It would probably also depend on the options that the VM software offers . Linux When using the NVIDIA drivers on Linux ( and on Windows too ) you can select the full native panel resolution ( 2880x1800 ) . You can also select any of a number of scaled resolutions which do n't look as sharp . In general , running at native resolution is actually less of a problem for Linux than it is in Windows and OS X because of the way it 's designed . There are no blurry fonts on 3rd party apps like on OS X and it is easier to set your DPI so that apps are scaled properly than on Windows ( it is set automatically in Linux ) .
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
From the article , <URL> : [ Originally posted on Neowin.net by giga on 04 April 2010 12:26 ] The <URL> clearly state the ability to charge with USB ( with no mention of OS requirements ) but Apple have additionally <URL> disclosing that " some USB 2.0 ports and accessories do not provide enough power to charge iPad . " <URL> , Apple asserts that USB charging is supported but that it varies according to the state of the iPad and the power output of the USB hub : For the fastest charging , use the iPad 's included 10-Watt USB power adapter . This will fully charge the iPad in a few hours , even if you 're using the iPad at the same time . When connected to a high-power USB port -- such as the ones on recent Macs and the iPhone Power Adapter -- the iPad will charge , even during use , but more slowly . ( We have n't yet determined how much more slowly . ) Some third-party powered USB hubs provide higher-power USB ports , but many do n't ; similarly , the USB ports on most Windows PCs do n't provide this additional power . When connected to lower-power USB ports -- those on older Macs , most Windows PCs , and most USB hubs ( powered or unpowered ) -- the iPad 's battery is not charged while the iPad is awake , but is charged ( again , slowly ) when the iPad is asleep . What 's confusing here is that the message " Not charging " appears in the menu bar when the iPad is awake , which might lead you to assume that the offending USB port can never charge your iPad . But rest assured , Apple says : once you put the iPad to sleep , the battery will indeed charge . ( If you could see the screen while the iPad was asleep , it might even display the charging icon . It 's the modern-day " Does the refrigerator light stay on when I close the door ? " mystery . ) Further analysis from Apple 's statements indicate that the iPad can only be charged off of USB connections that provide near 1 amp of current . The majority of USB ports on most older Macs and PCs only provide 500 mA and thus ca n't be used to charge the device . The USB 2.0 specification provides 500 mA of current to high-powered buses and 100 mA for low-powered buses . But in April 2009 , the specification gained a new " <URL> " which provided additional current to high power devices and it seems that Apple has started to incorporate it in their newer Macs .
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Your model should support 2 external monitors at max resolution of 2560x1600 . Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors . Check your resolution settings , if the cables are working . <URL>
<URL> ( free ) I found the link to it on <URL> along with some other info about graphics switching . fast access via menu icon auto/manually switch between discrete and integrated graphics power source-based switching growl support open source
end question
start question
Is it possible to browse my iTunes backup files ?
Yes ! It is possible to view the contents of backups . There are several programs you can use , the one I use is <URL> . You can view and extract : Messages Contacts Voicemail ( though I have not tried this ) Call history Notes Safari ( bookmarks and history ) Calendar More if you are willing to dig into folders The free version allows you to view the contents , but has restrictions on extracting them . There is also <URL> which does : Photos Recordings Again , perhaps more This is also a free / paid app , so have a look at what you need . Hope this helps .
Apple has a great article enumerating what gets backed up for each level of iOS . <URL> Pay close attention to the section titled iTunes will back up the following information and note that by setting a passcode , Apple backs up more of your device 's keychain . Also <URL> since each has strengths and weaknesses in terms of backing up an iOS device . In terms of the things you enumerate - all are backed up except the one you did n't want ( the OS itself and firmware for the device ) . I would encourage you to also sync contacts ( and other data ) so you have a second backup ( or even the ability to make a third backup of the synced data ) since losing contacts is an event that is very painful to recover .
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
No , not since 4.2 can you do this because the APN settings disappeared off the devices . Though , there are videos on youtube and tutorials in other places that can walk you through adding the features back on to your device . Whether or not they still work or will work for you depending on your current iOS version installed on iPad is a different story . A particular Video here : <URL> If you read the comments though , it does n't work for everyone , and some people it did work for had issues with their sim cards after about a week of use , with AT&amp;T disabling them . Other people on here might tell you to jailbreak your device and enable tethering but that is your choice . Jailbreaking is n't for everyone . A website here talks about making a wifi hotspot with your iPhone the legal or jailbroken way and talks about the pros and cons of each : <URL> I hope that this answer helps you out .
No , once and App has been deleted , either by you or because of the expiration process , you can not reuse your SKU or app name in the same account again . It can be used , though , by another developer . Under the <URL> section of the iTunes Connect Developer Guide you 'll learn more about the ramifications of an App Deletion .
This is possible using Do-Not-Disturb - a new feature in iOS 6 . Open Settings.app Go to Notifications > Do Not Disturb Select " Allow Calls From " You have several options . Either create a group , or have only those few people in your Favorites . The best is probably to create a group as that allows you better flexibility . After you have created the group with only the people that you want to allow to reach you , select it from the list . Now , to enable silent mode except for those two people turn on Do Not Disturb in Settings.app . Creating/Editing Groups : This is n't as easy as it appears on iOS . <URL> As mentioned in the accepted answer , your best strategy for creating or editing groups is to go to iCloud.com on your computer . Quoting the answer : " No , there is no way to create or edit contact groups on iOS . I share your frustration ! The best workaround is to use iCloud.com ( or your primary Mac , if you have it with you ) . " But you can add contacts to a particular group , ( though it is n't straight-forward ) : In Contacts , tap the Groups button in the top left Tap " Hide All Contacts " Tap the group that you want to add the contact to ( making it the only visible group ) Tap Done in the top right Tap the Add button ( ) in the top right So , the easiest is to just use a Mac ( if you have one ) or iCloud.com to create and add people to a group . After this is done , the new group with the people that you want to reach you should appear on iPhone .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
Press ⌘ F , set the search scope to the current folder , and set kind to PDF . You can then save the search and open it from the sidebar or Spotlight . The view options are saved in the . savedSearch file , so you can set it to open in icon view and have large icons and low grid spacing .
There should n't be a problem . I believe I 've done an iCloud transfer from iOS 5.1.1 to iOS 7.0.4 , which is a much larger gap . If anything , going from iOS 9.3.2 to iOS 8.4.1 might be a problem , but you are n't doing that , so you 'll be fine . iCloud is built with moving to a new device in mind . It would n't make much sense for Apple to make it impossible to restore a backup from a previous iOS version .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
Yes it is , you have to connect your iPad to your PC once . Select your device in iTunes and check the flag " sync with this iPad over Wi-Fi " under the tab " Summary " . Click " apply " . Now you can sync your device without connect it to iTunes trough the cable . You can do it both from iTunes and from the iPad . If you want to launch the sync from your iPad go to " Settings - > General - > iTunes Wi-Fi Sync "
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
Remember the <URL> ? Apple did license the technology at that point in time to build an iTunes compatible phone with Motorola , before the iPhone era . The <URL> was one of the other few non-Apple devices compatible with iTunes . There was also the case of the <URL> which supported iTunes syncing ( unlicensed ) , but Apple kept breaking the syncing ( purposedly ? ) with new iTunes versions , forcing users of Palm Pre 's to search for hacks to get it working again . I think this shows that it is technically possible ( even through reverse engineering ) , but Apple is not going to sit by and allow it . This probably is even more true nowadays , as they are fiercely protecting the iTunes/iOS eco-system . You could also use iSync to sync contacts and calendars with many different phone models , but it has gone missing since Mac OS X Lion . Here 's <URL> to install it again though . EDIT : Found a quote from Apple regarding " non-supported " devices , which illustrates their stance : Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software . However , Apple does not provide support for , or test for compatibility with , non-Apple digital media players and , because software changes over time , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players . And here 's a reaction from Apple to Business Week regarding the Palm Pre : iTunes 8.2.1 is a free software update that provides a number of important bug fixes . It also disables devices falsely pretending to be iPods , including the Palm Pre . As we 've said before , newer versions of Apple 's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with unsupported digital media players .
There are several bluetooth solutions , that should be useful : <URL> ( $ 29 ) - This should do the trick . Works and has interesting features . I recommend it . <URL> - No longer developed and supported . I see almost everything vanished , but I think you should be able to locate a working copy somehow . Edit : As of OS X 10.10 Yosemite and iOS8 this will be included in the OS itself . It 's called <URL> . ps . I 'm not in any way connected to the authors of the software , mentioned in my answer .
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
No - the design clearly is intended to honor whatever set of metadata you have currently entered into your library . As you have discovered , the matching process can find songs based on other criteria and re-downloading the " canonical " AAC 256 kbps stereo will not currently fill in any metadata holes or correct parts of the metadata that do not match what Apple has in the store ( or it 's Match database for songs that are not for sale like the AC/DC catalog ) I can see two reasons for this : Intentional - preserve user customization where the data may be better on the individual customer iTunes database . Not automating the process of cleaning up songs that may have been passed or downloaded rather than ripped when connected to a metadata lookup server or otherwise encoded by the official artist when it was sold or released . I specifically have hundreds of Hawaiian songs where I 've entered the metadata with the help of a native speaker to have the correct punctuation ( and that does n't match Apple 's punctuation ) . There certainly is a great need for a tool to help people manage this , but iTunes Match is n't that tool today .
end question
start question
AirPort Express no power-on - can it be repaired or replaced ?
I do n't believe that the Airport Express is considered a serviceable product . As you have seen from the repair sites it is n't easily opened . A repair from Apple is n't likely to be available or cost effective . It never hurts to ask though -- especially at the Genius Bar where they have some discretion depending on your situation . Without destroying the exterior , you are likely faced with getting a replacement . You could save some money by buying a <URL> from Apple . And perhaps even sell your old one for <URL> in case someone else wants to split it open .
The problem got partially better on its own , and it 's not clear why . There were also a lot of old networks in the list of previous wifi networks in System Preferences , and it helped to delete them . The complete fix , however , ended up being to go into the list of wireless networks ( in System Preferences > Networks > Airport , Advanced ) and move the desired network up to the top of the list so it was joined first . There was one called " linksys " on top that was matching a neighbor 's network , and then failing to get internet access for some reason ; I think it was added a long time ago for a different network of the same name . I thought I had tried this before , but either something changed or I did n't actually try it . I 'm asking this question to help me troubleshoot someone else 's computer , so I 'm not aware of everything that might have changed since I originally posted the question .
Yes , that is in fact the purpose of the AirPlay feature . Just plug it to your stereo or active speaker with the jack on the rear . A small " airplay " icon ( see the example on the <URL> ) will appear appear in iTunes or iPhone/iPad when you play music . You can then select whether you want your music on the Airport Express router or on your computer / iDevice .
I often use the smaller Airport cable to power the Mac power adapter without having a ground and you can safely do the opposite as long as you get a firm connection and support the AirPort hardware if the plug extends lower than the bottom of the device .
Looks like if you create a blank space on your laptop side of things and place it in the Desktop 1 spot all the external display apps will go there on disconnect . Only weird thing is when you reset your computer if you are n't plugged into an external monitor then some of the apps seem to move around a little bit , otherwise this method seems to be exactly what I was looking for . Cheers
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
Simple answer : No More exact answer : Maybe . You would need to have a inside knowledge of the internal processes of the iCloud . The iCloud is not just one server , but many of them with different parts ( Key Value Storage , Document storage , ... ) I do n't think it 's possible to replace them without extreme inside knowledge . For more info about what exactly the iCloud is ( much more than just a file server ) you could read this <URL> from John Siracusa Of course there are other services which provide the same tools for managing reminders , todos , ... But there is n't a direct replacement for the iCloud and I ca n't imagine that there will ever be one . That would fundamentally contradict with apples philosophy of a closed and controlled environment .
Whilst an AirPort Extreme does support SNMP as you mentioned , they do not export Netflow data ( unless something has changed recently ) .
Unfortunately , there is no direct way to force OS X to use battery-power mode ( <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ) . OS X uses <URL> which changes the P-state of the processor depending on the computer 's power status ( AC/battery ) . AFAIK , the only thing you can do is set your AC mode power management settings to the same as battery mode . Using , you can see and set the power settings that your Mac uses for AC and battery scenarios . Below is an example : A brief run-through of the command : : pmset : get settings : displays custom settings for all power sources To equalise your AC power settings with your battery consumption settings , you can use the following command : A brief run-through of the command : : see above : converts entire output to one line : removes output following " A " of " AC Power : " : removes output preceding " : " of " Battery Power " ( example output as of this stage ) : passes the above argument line one by one to Now , the output of looks like this : Note that for similar properties that had different properties ( i.e. , which had on battery and on AC ) , they are now the same . It is advisable to keep a backup of the original AC power settings in case you would like to revert . As follows , you can generate a string that you can use to reset your AC power settings with the following command : The difference between this command and the one above is that with this command , we are taking the value after AC power ( aka original AC power settings ) . To reset your settings to your original settings , take the string generated by the above command and pipe it through to : I would also advise following <URL> to decrease power consumption .
To obtain a semi precise GPS position , you need at least three satellites ( but usually four or more is required to obtain a decent degree of precision ) to triangulate your position . The more you have the better the accuracy . A GPS receiver needs to power its antenna , and constantly process the signal sent by each satellite . Remember that satellites are continually transmitting messages . ( 50 bits/sec as far as I can remember ) Satellites emit messages specifying their exact location , trajectory , speed , the time each message was sent and the rough location of all the other satellites in the constellation . By comparing this info to the time the signal was received a distance from the satellite to the receiver can be determined . When you have three or more satellites you can triangulate your location in three dimensions relative to the positions of the satellites . The iPhone ( and other phones ) use A-GPS , which is designed to ( believe it or not ) among other things , make the GPS work better in poor reception areas ( cities ? ) and reduce the amount of information that the receiver needs from the satellites , thus saving battery power from the Antenna . The parts of the GPS signal about location , speed and orbital trajectory usually drop out first when in low reception , that 's where A-GPS fits in , feeding that info for every satellite in that part of the world to the phone , from a central database via the mobile network . Now the phone just has to search for the short timing signals from each satellite , which are easier to receive than the other parts of the transmission . When all that information is calculated , an algorithm ( there are a few as far as I know ) is used to compute the position of the actual receiver . Now add to that the fact that GPS messages are encoded and that satellites broadcast the messages at about 50 bits per second . And that each message is really a subset of frames with time , position , error correction , etc , etc. . There are more factors involver , but for the purpose of making this simple , the GPS 's cpu must constantly use the radio ( already power hungry ) to capture the signal ( which may be weak ! ) for usually four or more ( sometimes up to 20 ! ) satellites that are constantly sending packages , then it must decode and process them , perform calculations to analyze the results and in some cases draw a map or feed an application with the info . As you can see , this sounds easy but it 's not . There 's a lot of CPU processing involved in the back ( plus the antenna 's power ! ) So the GPS power consumption usually comes from the real time nature of the operation . Powering the antenna , listening for information and processing it , uses power , more than just a standby radio antenna ( the phone ) waiting for a call . Plus the A-GPS uses also the phone 's radio and ( if available ) Wi-Fi networks to determine its location ( and use less GPS info ) , which means , more power is used at the same time . The <URL> page has a lot of detailed information if you want to get the specifics and/or dive into more GPS geekery , including the math and error correction stuff .
Here 's how you do it in iOS 4.1 : In Safari , hit the bookmarks icon Press the " Edit " button in the lower left In the lower right , a " New Folder " button appears . Press it . Type in the name of the folder and hit " Done " on the keyboard .
First of all , to remove any confusion , iCloud 's , and are two different things , and will behave differently . iCloud Photo Sharing From the <URL> : How many photos and videos can be stored in a shared album ? A shared album can hold a maximum of 5000 photos and videos combined . When you reach your limit , you must delete some photos or videos before adding new ones . My Photo Stream Limits Uploads to My Photo Stream per month : 25,000 photos Also note that photos are automatically deleted from your photostream after 30 days .
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
I have heard on different podcasts of users who use <URL> to shortcut into typing different e-mail signatures . TextExpander is on my wish list of apps I will buy soon , I see a lot of potential in having keyboard shortcuts for common text snippets . Hope this helps .
There are multiple ways of achieving this . Here are two possible solutions : Python . This has been answered on <URL> already . <URL> . One of Simplify 's features is auto-pausing on Skype calls :
The file to change would be ( cf <URL> ) In Lion/Mountain Lion we had a key . Unfortunately it 's not recognized anymore . I 'm pessimistic about restoring this behaviour .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
The jailbreak does not affect the functionality of the phone except to allow MORE things to run on it , so there 's no reason to think it wo n't work for development .
end question
start question
Do I need Lion on a MacBook to use iCloud ?
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
It 's not necessary . For more details than you could possibly want , read <URL> by Amit Singh ( author of <URL> ) .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
You do n't need any kernel extensions . OS X has VPN configurability built in as well as all the UNIX tuneless and networking code and commands you could possibly need for securing the network . ( It 's BSD under the hood , after all ) . Why that one package needs a . kext could be innocent and performance tuning or to prevent needing a password to change things later or it could be nefarious for any number of reasons .
According to <URL> , anything that works in the US should work in the Bahamas . Voltage : 110-120 Volts ( Same as U.S. / Canada , most other areas are 220-240 Volts ) Primary Socket Types : North American Non-Grounded , North American Grounded
I found the answer : log out of MobileMe in the System Prefs panel , and then the iCloud panel will prompt you to log in ( instead of offering the " Move to iCloud " button ) . Log in with your iCloud account and you should be all set . Worked perfectly for me .
Here is what you can do , on at least iOS 9 . Launch Notes on your iPhone or iPad While on the list of notes , enter Edit - mode . Select all of the Notes Tap on " Move to target . . " ( Might not be accurate translation ) Select " iCloud Notes " That 's all .
No . Apple securely transmits and stores the data to the cloud by using secure tokens for authentication - as officially stated in the iCloud security and privacy overview1 and the iCloud design guide2 . Apple also states they they will " never provide encryption keys to any third parties " , which of course is not entirely true due to the Patriot Act3 . ArsTechnica states that Apple holds a master encryption key4 and is able to unencrypt any personal data - i.e. also for government requests . " This includes contacts , notes , unencrypted e-mails , application preferences , Safari bookmarks , calendars , and reminders . " The data is only encrypted during transit and again when stored on Apple 's servers . This is a necessity if Apple wants to provide browser access to iCloud data . The Electronic Frontier Foundation notes5 that Apple is not inclined to be transparent about government requests . As far as I understand the concept of client-side encryption , it suggests that all encryption must happen by the client as keys are not stored on the server ( zero-knowledge policy ) . Because Apple encrypts the data itself on the server for browser access it must store a key . Hence this is no client-side encryption . 1 - <URL> 2 - <URL> 3 - <URL> 4 - <URL> 5 - <URL>
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
In short , the microphone wo n't work as a microphone the way you 're trying it , but the earbuds will . Longer answer ... In order to use the microphone from your iPhone headphones , they must be plugged into the headphones socket . You can see in the images below that the MacBook Pro " Sound " preference pane recognises that they have a microphone and switches the " Built-in Microphone " to the headphones one when they 're in the headphones socket . If you plug the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket , it seems to be only set up for a standard stereo 3.5 mm jack , and so will use the earbuds ( both of them ) as microphones -- a stereo microphone effectively ( though they 're not great at picking up sound or well matched to the hardware as microphones , so will require lots of amplification ) . Sound preference pane without the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Sound preference pane with the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Plugging the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket shows no change ( i.e. looks like the top image ) and having tested it , only the earbuds seem to produce any response in the computer ( i.e. they 're connected but the microphone is n't ) .
rEFIt is the best way to allow dual-booting on a Mac . I use it to boot Ubuntu from a partition on my external drive , and it works perfectly . Be sure to back up your hard drive before proceeding . Install rEFIt and make sure it is working ( you should get a boot chooser on startup ) Use Bootcamp or Disk Utility to create a partition at the end of the disc . Do n't worry about what format , just make it the size you want for Ubuntu and your swap partition . If you you are using OS X Lion which comes with Bootcamp 4.0 you will need to use the Disk Utility . Boot Camp 4.0 will only allow you to resize if you provide a Windows 7 installation disk . Boot the Ubuntu desktop CD , and select " Try Ubuntu . Start the partition editor ( gparted ) under System - > Adminstration . Use gparted to delete the partition you just made in OS X . It should be the last partition on the disc and follows after the HFS + partition ( OS X ) . Deleting it will leave an area called unallocated . This is free space , and exactly what you want . Use gparted to manually partition the space on your drive for Ubuntu . First create a SWAP area of about 1GB . Then the rest of the unallocated area format as EXT4 . Apply changes and take note the label of the EXT4 partition such as / dev/sda3 . Start the Ubuntu Installer from the desktop icon . When prompted , choose to manually partition . Select the EXT4 partition and click change . Select to use the space as EXT4 and root ( / ) as the mount point . You will also want to check the box to format the partition . Reboot when done with the install , and in the rEFIt menu , choose the partition tool . It will attempt to sync the partition tables on your disk . Then SHUTDOWN the computer ( not reboot ) , and start it again . You should be able to boot to Ubuntu now . If it seems to freeze on the tux logo , completely shutdown again and try one more time . This is a summary of a process described by the detailed how-to process here : <URL>
I 'm not sure what you mean . You need to be more specific . If it 's that the Mac is tied to an Apple ID , no : only the current installation and user accounts are . Yes , you 'll need one to download the installer unless you get it some other way ( someone else downloads it , you use internet recovery , etc. ) Sort of . <URL> , you can only do so if you have a Time Machine backup of relevant files from before your upgrade . You 'd be able to move most changes back over once you finished the downgrade , but I do n't know of any easy way to restore an older version directly from the current one without losing data .
Many have tried to do some benchmarking see e.g. . <URL> <URL> <URL> and looks like differences are small . One remarkable exception is FileVault 2 <URL> In my ( not very extensive ) experience with Lion I noted no difference ( but Lion is definitely more buggy and less dependable than Snow Leopard )
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
Make sure the old Apple TV Remote is out of Bluetooth range , then while in front of the Apple TV set top box press a button on the new remote . This should pair the remote to the Apple TV . If not , try pressing Volume Up and Menu simultaneously on both remotes for 2-3 seconds , new and old , then do the aforementioned steps again with the new remote .
You can indeed use both the HDMI and Thunderbolt ports to drive two separate monitors with a Mac Mini . Any Mac with a Thunderbolt port can use any mini Displayport display , cable or adapter , so you 're correct that the mDP to DVI adapter is what you need1 . If you have a display that requires <URL> ( typically only monitors with resolutions higher than 1920x1200 ) , you 'll need an active mDP to dual-link DVI adapter . For the HDMI port , HDMI to DVI adapters are readily available ( HDMI is essentially a superset of DVI with a different connector ) . Note that the HDMI port is limited to monitors with 1920x1200 or lower resolution . 1 Note that the reverse is not true - Thunderbolt monitors ca n't be used with mDP equipped Macs .
Unfortunately , Time Machine does n't support this feature and there are a couple of reasons why . Time Machine makes physical backups of all your files , not just links to them . If it backed up to iCloud Drive ( which syncs to your Mac ) , it would duplicate 150GB on to your HDD . It would then try to back all of that up too ( unless you exclude that location from the backup ) so it would try to add another 150GB to the backup , and so on . Time Machine makes incremental backups . Sure , your backup is just 150GB now . But you change a few files and it backs up an additional 25MB . You install a new app and it adds another 2GB . While you may keep your actual drive below 320GB , your Time Machine backup could end up over 1TB in size ! In my case , I use about 400GB of storage on my Mac , but my Time Machine backup is over 1.3 TB due to deleted files . Having said all that , sure , theoretically it is possible . If you created a link to a folder on your iCloud Drive in it should show up as a disk to back up to , and if you excluded backing up iCloud Drive through Time Machine it would n't double in size every backup . Your hard drive would fill up very very quickly though , and your performance would suffer . To me , at least , this seems a lot more effort than it is worth .
The code points should be shown in the right sidebar if you 've enabled the Unicode category from the Customize List ... sheet .
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
end question
start question
What different Stack Exchange apps are available for the iPad ?
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
I have been following Swype for some time , and the only thing they have officially said was one little peep in Reuters back in June about looking towards iPhone development . In the article they alluded towards a developer running Swype on his iPhone , however no releases or leaks are anywhere to be found . <URL> My guess ... just a guess ... is that they are trying to work around the need to jailbreak your iPhone in order to run it . If you follow the Engadget blog , you 'll be among the first to know . <URL>
If you 're just looking for a quick signal strength number , option-click on the AirPort icon in the menu bar . Under the connected network you will see several pieces of information : RSSI is your signal strengh in dB . Higher ( closer to 0 ) is better . If you 're looking for noise or the signal strength for multiple access points , I suggest checking out <URL> : <URL>
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
I would really go with <URL> , I can say from experience that It will allow you to use check boxes , radio buttons etc. . You would be able to export a Google doc to an excel file and then open in numbers . If you do choose to export a Google Doc file into an excel file you could also use dropbox to open and edit it in another office based app , with that you may be able to use checks and radio buttons , as long as they already exist in the doc . A very good solution is <URL> You can also try a lot of other free office tools such as <URL>
You need to change the icon of the folder that contains the items in the stack . This can be done in several ways , but perhaps the easiest is to start by navigate to the folder of the stack , change that icon , and set the stack to display the folder instead of the contents . Click the stack , click " Open in Finder " in the stack , and then press the keystroke ⌘ + ▲ . The key press will take you " one level up " in the directory hierarchy so that you are now looking at the folder that houses the items in the stack . Next , select the folder ( If it 's not already selected ) , and " get info " on it , by typing ⌘ + I , or right-clicking and selecting " Get Info " . At the top of this window will be a miniature icon of a folder . You can click on this and copy it via the keyboard shortcut ( ⌘ + C ) , or paste in an image that you copied from somewhere else . Finally , you need to right-click on the stack and set it to display " folder " and not the stack contents .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
For the record : I went and updated the iOS and I can still use the apps from previous location and did not loose any of the apps that were not available in the new country after upgrading .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
I just ported MenuMeters for El Capitan , please go to <URL> .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
First of all , connect the adapter and reboot . In many cases , it will solve the problem . You need to reboot because the adapter is not hot-pluggable . For the same reason , if you remove and re-insert the adapter , it wo n't work until you reboot . If you still have difficulties , I 've found <URL> at Apple Store . Google " <URL> " . Select the <URL> . Install via device manager ( select location where you unzipped driver ) . Note , the PCI ID for this device 14e4 :1682 is not listed in Broadcom 's web page list of supported IDs . However the driver 's . inf does include the requisite matching for the new device ID . Hopefully , you can solve this with a reboot due to it not working as a hot-plug device , and each time you need to boot Windows with the adapter attached for the driver to load .
Passbook is only for the iPhone and iPod Touch . The following is taken from the <URL> : ... you can scan your iPhone or iPod touch to check in for a flight , get into a movie , and redeem a coupon ...
Definitely Homebrew . I started with Fink , then switched to MacPorts ( happier ) , then Homebrew ( much , much happier ) . These are my reasons for using each ( a pro list if you will ) : Fink Apt-based - feel right at home if you come from a Debian-based environment Binary packages - packages are available as binaries so no long compile times . Practically though I 've found that the pre-compiled binaries were always outdated and I had to compile stuff for my system anyways Decent selection of packages MacPorts Biggest selection of packages/ports Generally very up to date Nice <URL> that lets you customise the build Easy and intuitive port files Homebrew Very up to date Maximum leveraging of what comes with OS X. Unlike Fink or MacPorts , it does not require you to build/install ruby and libraries from scratch just to install some small Ruby-based tool . Installs into so does not need you to modify anywhere Everything owned by user , so no packages ever need potentially risky root access to install Every installed package is cleanly sandboxed into its own cellar so you do n't have stray files all over your system , just symlinks from bin , man , etc. . <URL> to create your own formula files ( ie . package descriptors ) Since you 're from a ruby background , another plus is everything is written in ruby and all formulas are simple ruby scripts
No . You will be paid by units sold . Let 's see an example : You sold 100 apps with a price of 1 CAD . You will get 0.7 CAD per app sold x 100 units . Total 70.0 CAD . If some of your sales are on foreign country , the process is the same , except currency exchange applied is the payment 's day exchange , without fees . This quoted text is from <URL> : This amount is only an estimate . Actual amount may vary , based on foreign exchange rates . Amount shown does not include any applicable withholding tax , which will be applied when the payment is made .
You can look at <URL> . It is an Exchange gateway and will allow you to read-write the Exchange calendar from iCal , or to use any email application with Exchange . Note that if your administrator allows IMAP access to your Exchange account , you do not need client support specifically for Exchange .
These are U + fb01 and fb02 , Latin Small Ligature Fl and Fi . They are in Unicode really only because they were contained in legacy 8 bit character sets like MacRoman , but should no longer be used for anything . In modern technology such ligatures are created by fonts on the basis of the underlying codes for the separate characters , which is what should aways be input in place of option shift 5/6 .
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
Per <URL> , AirPlay makes use of a number of ports : ╔ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╗ ║ Port ║ TCP/UDP ║ Name ║ ╠ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╣ ║ 80 ║ TCP ║ Hypertext Transfer Protocol ( HTTP ) ║ ║ 443 ║ TCP ║ Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL , or " HTTPS " ) ║ ║ 554 ║ TCP/UDP ║ Real Time Streaming Protocol ( RTSP ) ║ ║ 3689 ║ TCP ║ Digital Audio Access Protocol ( DAAP ) ║ ║ 5353 ║ TCP ║ Multicast DNS ( MDNS ) ║ ╚ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╝
They are listed beside each sound . If we look at AirDrop for example , iOS will list : Pulse ( Default ) . All sounds will have this ( Default ) suffix attached to them .
end question
start question
WhatsApp on iPhone : how to switch to a new phone number without losing anything ?
It proved trivial : power down iPhone change SIM card turn iPhone on launch Whatsapp Whatsapp asks something like " Mobile network changed . Switch to new phone number ? " . Tap " No " That 's it . All groups , chat history and contacts preserved . My friends see me ( and chat history with me ) as I never changed SIM card or number . Later switch back to the original number works exactly the same . Mind the <URL> from Whatsapp FAQ : " Please do not swap SIM cards ... frequently , or you will create problems in the verification process . " But with two changes " to new and back to the old " in half an hour , I of course did n't experience any problems .
You ca n't use an existing Apple ID and then enroll it into the store . The " none " option only exists for new accounts as a one-time ( or limited count ) event for that device thanks to scammers and people that manipulate app store ratings with factory reviews and paid downloads . You can usually make a brand new Apple ID following these steps : <URL> It 's generally a bigger pain to have two Apple ID , so I would encourage you to not set up a new ID just to avoid the temporary delay of getting a legitimate address and card for temporary use . Once you have your account verified , you can use store credit for just about everything on the store .
The late Mr. Jobs felt it was essential to be able to mute a cell phone without pulling it out of your pocket , and/or in the dark , with minimal light disturbance , without having to hold it up to see it , without being distracting to the reason you are muting the phone in the first place . IIRC , he actually described something to this effect at the original iPhone unveiling 29 June 2007
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
The saved games are usually stored locally on the device , even if they are synchronised by iCloud . If you sign out of your iTunes account and sign in with his new one , there should n't be any loss of save game data at all . If , however , you want to wipe the iPad and set it up anew for him , you 'll need to backup the save information and restore it to the iPad after the clean install . To do this , I would recommend <URL> ( formerly Disk Aid ) . It 's a great app , available for both OS X and Windows , that lets you drill down into your apps to retrieve data . I would recommend doing a full backup in iTunes first , then use iMazing and save the " Documents " and " Library " folders from each app with a save game , so you have two backups just in case anything goes wrong . Then , once you 've restored the iPad to factory settings and reinstalled the games , just use iMazing again to copy the folders back in to their respective apps .
<URL> is an application which can export WhatsApp chats in several formats , including HTML pages and Word documents with intenal links to attachments ; this allows easy and comfortable reviewing of the exported chats . CopyTrans Contacts is not free , but a limited trial is available ; the trial allows up to 50 actions to be performed , and a full export of a WhatsApp chat counts as a single action ; therefore , the trial version is more than enough for exporting the full contents of one or more chats .
Time machine keeps a local store of backups if the time machine drive is not available . This is transferred to the backup drive when it is next connected , so you do n't even miss an hourly save . You can see these highlighted in a different colour if you enter time machine a few hours after being disconnected from the backup drive . Source : <URL>
Things you can try ( that I have n't tried myself ) , other than <URL> : If you have a 4 digit lockcode on the iPhone , the encryption on iTunes might <URL> . Try the same pin . Also try older pins , if you change it . It could be an old one . Get <URL> , delete <URL> ( may need to jailbreak the phone to be able to see it ) on it and restart . Be aware this will clear all your passwords . Now delete your iTunes encrypted backups and re-sync . <URL> - this is an easy way to remove the lock code , not sure about the encrypt iphone check tho . Probably . Use some <URL> , <URL> to begin with a lot more of hacking . I wo n't get into much detail here because this is n't a simple procedure . You 're on your own . Just wanted to cite it 's possible and that maybe even today the " encryption " is quite fake . Restore from an old unencrypted backup . Yes , this is the closest step to " wipe " . As you already suggested , wipe your phone ( just for the sake of completeness ) . Good luck !
Yes a Time Machine ( TM ) backup is sufficient ; you do n't need to " install " the OS and then restore the backup . However you will need a copy of the OS at least and that can definitely be placed on either a USB stick or external HDD . The OS media contains the utilities you 'll need to restore the TM backup . <URL> . ( edit for clarity ) Depending on how new your MBP is , more specifically which version of OS X you have , you may also have a built in <URL> that has all the tools you need to do this as well .
Xcode does support tabs . You can add a new one by pressing Command ⌘ + T , or go to View > Show Tab Bar to keep the bar open always so you can press the + button there . With multiple tabs , you can use Command ⌘ + { and Command ⌘ + } to cycle through them . As mentioned by bassplayer7 in the comments , you can also use multiple windows and cycle through them with Command ⌘ + ` ( backtick ) or Command ⌘ + ~ ( tilde ) . Additionally , you can have multiple documents open in one window using Assistant editors . Either use Navigate > Open in Assistant Editor , or click the icon which looks like a shirt and bow tie in your toolbar to bring the editor up . Then , you can use the little + in the upper-right corner of the editor to add more . The Navigate menu has several other useful options too , such as going through an editor 's history , various counterparts to a file ( headers , implementations , interfaces , ... ) , and switching focus between various portions of the window . As for the navigator , use groups to combine related files for easier access . Use File > New > Group or File > New > Group From Selection to add a group and rearrange things however you want . You can completely remove the original groups created in the original project if you want , since they are just for navigation and have no affect on the actual project .
<URL> by <URL> While the app does n't let you directly browse artists and albums , it definitely uses a <URL> and lets you focus on finding the new music -- by not standing in your way and getting a bunch of recommended tracks based on a given artist seed . Each preview lasts for a whole minute which I think is enough to form an opinion ( and bookmark the track ) . Bookmarked tracks can be re-listened at any time ( with the same time constraint ) . The buy icon link is small and non-obtrusive . Out of ten tracks I have listened to , I loved eight and two of them were by my two other favorite bands that the app had no way of knowing . I also came to like the " passive discovery " workflow where I hear new music without having to browse through the bands and tap tap tap . Last.fm radio was never even close to this . And SuperSonic is free . The last bit that got me was adjustable recommendations popularity , danceability , tempo and the ability to ignore these settings altogether .
If you want to back up your Health data using iTunes , you need to encrypt your backup by selecting " Encrypt iPhone backup " in the Summary tab in iTunes . If you do n't select this option , your Health data wo n't back up .
I can provide half an answer . I 'm not sure how to get the SMS out of the Nokia backup , but you wo n't be able to copy them to the new iPhone directly . You 'll need to write a script to translate them to the iPhone format . I provide instructions below how to reverse engineer the iPhone SMS DB . The iPhone SMS DB is sqlite3 . If your iPhone is jailbroken , you can get and view the DB on the phone itself ( install terminal ) or on your desktop : If your phone is not jailbroken , you can operate on the backup up SMS DB , replace the backup locally and then restore the iPhone . The backup is located in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , is named : Although comments below indicate that may not always be the name of the file . Run the sqlite3 command above to dump this to ASCII to understand the format , then replicate this format with whatever tools you want from your Nokia DB . Here are some instructions on how to migrate your SMS in the reverse direction for Android : <URL> An iPhone database extractor : <URL>
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
Unlikely . Such functionality is indirectly excluded by the iOS Developer Program Licence Agreement under section 3.3.4 . There it is stated that applications may only write data to an application 's designated container area on the device . Therefore , the library data for ringtones can not can not be manipulted unless there were API to do this . I am not sure if I 'm allowed to post a direct link here , therefore use <URL> to get to the document .
You can use multi-touch gestures to swipe to the last app you used , in this case will be mail . First make sure Multi-Touch gestures are turned on in the settings panel . Once this feature is on , you can swipe from right to left with four fingers or more to cycle through the apps you last used . If you do not want to use that , you can double tap the home button top bring up the last few apps used .
The bottleneck is the available free memory ( RAM ) on the iPhone . If Safari starts running out of memory it will flush the contents of older tabs meaning they have to reload when you switch back to them . If you have too many tabs open , or you simply have multiple tabs that each have a large web page in them , Safari will reload when you switch back to another tab . There 's no fixed limit ; it depends on the combined size of the HTML + all assets each web page you have open and on the total number of tabs you have open . As the available RAM in new iPhone models increases , this will become less and less of a problem .
From the Podcasts view ( left tab ) , press the Edit button at the top left ( you may need to scroll up to see it ) . Each podcast will have an ( x ) button in its top left corner . Hit that button ( it 's small and can be tricky , but it works ) to remove the podcast . Use the Done button at the top left when you 're finished editing .
It proved trivial : power down iPhone change SIM card turn iPhone on launch Whatsapp Whatsapp asks something like " Mobile network changed . Switch to new phone number ? " . Tap " No " That 's it . All groups , chat history and contacts preserved . My friends see me ( and chat history with me ) as I never changed SIM card or number . Later switch back to the original number works exactly the same . Mind the <URL> from Whatsapp FAQ : " Please do not swap SIM cards ... frequently , or you will create problems in the verification process . " But with two changes " to new and back to the old " in half an hour , I of course did n't experience any problems .
Unfortunately , the answer is no : When you turn on iCloud Photo Library on your iOS device or Mac , your photos and videos will upload after you connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi and your battery is charged . <URL> [ emphasis mine ]
end question
start question
Can I restore an iPhone from iPod Touch Backup ?
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
It 'll probably be fine . If it 's always plugged in , you wo n't notice any battery decay because the device will always be charged ( or pulling off mains power ) when you need it . Any battery decay will probably take long enough that it 'll be time to buy a new iPod by the time you notice anything severe . The easiest way to mitigate this I can think of is to unplug the device over the weekend , remove it from the car , and let it discharge on its own . Then , on Monday , plug it back in and go . This has the added advantage that it 's not subjected to the temperature extremes the interior of a car can see over a period of extended non-use .
You can easily check the model of the device using information found in Settings > General > About and a simple Google search . . Open the Settings app and select General . From the General * pane select * About . Scroll down in the About pane until you find the Model . Type the model number into a Google search box . That should be sufficient , but you can add additional search terms like Apple or iPod Touch if need be .
Simply turn off voicemail for calls to google voice using the web interface for that google voice number . If you activated the carrier settings like in the image below , click the instructions to reverse those changes with the carrier . You could also call your carrier for help since it 's a feature that has different commands on a per-carrier basis . They will be most familiar with their settings and order to undo the change if Google does n't help undo it . Without your carrier forwarding all calls to Google , you can still keep Google Voice and have both voicemail systems separate . That will simply forward the call and let the iPhone and carrier handle the voicemail . Lastly , you do n't have to delete the google app for this to work , but that might make things simpler if your wife does n't want to call out using the Google Voice number anymore .
As of iOS 5 , this problem is even simpler . Many views will scroll overflowing information , but you can also simply tap and hold on many sources of text in order to view them in a significantly smaller font size in a back pop-up tooltip , which greatly expands the amount of text that can be fit in the width of the iPhone 's screen size . Note that my previous answer still applies ( below ) , but this tooltip is usually quite a bit faster and much more direct . For all iOS versions before iOS 5 : My answer on the <URL> Question covers this as well . You can use Cover Flow view ( rotate your device to Landscape while in the iPod/Music app after selecting a song ) in order to greatly increase the amount of room used to display song information . Your title is particularly large , I do n't know what the landscape/Cover Flow view limit is . I do n't have any songs that exceed it yet :) .
This is Alex from Reincubate , I work on the iPhone Backup Extractor . Setting up your iPhone from scratch will mean that you lose your personalized settings , while restoring from previous backup will revert the settings to the moment of the backup . If you have nothing against taking it all over again with your iPhone you should set as new , but if you are in a hurry and want to speed the process up restore from backup . Hope it helps .
You can not directly restore to another account from Time Machine , but you can rename the user after the restore . After the fresh installation of OS X , restore the data and then do the user rename . Follow the process outlined in <URL> to rename your user " a " to user " b " .
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
Directly on the iPod , I do n't think so , if your sound settings are maxed . Try Settings > iPod > Volume Limit : Off and Settings > iPod > Sound Check : Off On iTunes , go to the " Info " window of the podcast audio file , and in the Option tab , try to see if you can set the audio volume to 200 % . I know it works on music , but it should also be available for the podcasts .
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
The differences aside from design , size , glass back cover and weight is that the iPod touch has : No cellular data No GPS , cell tower , or other non-WiFi Location data The iPod touch is not available with a 16Gb HD , only 8 , 32 , or 64 . No Digital Compass Display is not fingerprint resistant Video is 720p on iPod and 1080p on iPhone Still photos are .6 megapixels in the iPod and 8 megapixels on iPhone No image stabilisation in video mode No Siri 256Mb RAM compared with 512Mb # 330 more in your pocket . previous generation CPU ( A4 vs A5 ) less support ( 1 free support phone call vs 3 ) no LED flash for camera no vibration function USB power adapter not included headphones have no remote/mic This compares the most upto date iPod Touch ( 4th gen ) with the most upto date iPhone ( 4S ) at time of writing 12-17 were added after Ken suggested more . +1 to Ken for spotting the additional differences .
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
To restore from backup connect the iPhone to your computer wait for it to appear in iTunes right-click on the iPhone listed under Devices and select " Restore from backup ... " select the backup you want to restore ( there may be several ) Restoring will only touch user-specific content and configurations .
Yes , it can . My 2nd gen touch is running 4.2.1 just fine and dandy . ( It appears that , like the iPhone 3G , they wo n't get 4.3 , though . ) I 'd recommend to download the 4.2.1 update from Apple directly and option-restore the update to your device .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
It should be possible . The to-do list would be considered ' tasks ' , which falls under the category of Calendar Events . in Entourage , choose Entourage > Preferences and click Sync Services under General Preferences : More information : <URL>
There are several apps for extracting backups . The one I have used is <URL> , it 's been around for a while now and it is freeware , just make a donation if you find it useful to help the developer keep it updated . You simply select from which backup you want to restore by pressing the button " Read Backups " , then select from the list of application settings that can be restored . There is a detailed step by step guide <URL>
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
There should n't be a problem . I believe I 've done an iCloud transfer from iOS 5.1.1 to iOS 7.0.4 , which is a much larger gap . If anything , going from iOS 9.3.2 to iOS 8.4.1 might be a problem , but you are n't doing that , so you 'll be fine . iCloud is built with moving to a new device in mind . It would n't make much sense for Apple to make it impossible to restore a backup from a previous iOS version .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between one finger dragging and drag lock ?
I believe I figured out the difference : Dragging : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Depending on the amount of time that has passed , moving the mouse will do one of the following : Brief delay : moving the mouse continues the dragging , essentially behaving the exact same way as drag lock . The cycle is then repeated once you release your finger . Longer delay : dragging is stopped . Dragging &amp; Drag Lock : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Moving the mouse will continue dragging . Tap once to stop the dragging . It 's that brief delay that was throwing me off . There does n't seem to be any way to customize the length of this delay . One thing that does help , though , is figuring out exactly how long this delay is . One method for figuring this out is the following : Drag an icon from the dock a tiny bit so that if you were to release it , it would n't be deleted . Release the mouse . Observe how long it takes for the icon to move back to its place . That is the exact amount of minimum time that you should wait when you are finished dragging something .
After playing around with it some more , I have discovered the pattern . ( It was tricky to figure out because it changes ! ) You ca n't drag the current desktop ( of any display ) off of that display .
This is from the <URL> : 2.5 : Similarities with bash The Bourne-Again Shell , bash , is another enhanced Bourne-like shell ; the most obvious difference from zsh is that it does not attempt to emulate the Korn shell . Since both shells are under active development it is probably not sensible to be too specific here . Broadly , bash has paid more attention to standards compliancy ( i.e. POSIX ) for longer , and has so far avoided the more abstruse interactive features ( programmable completion , etc. ) that zsh has . I 've used them both , but prefer Bash now days because the machines I work on default to bash consistently . The standards-compliancy comment is important to me because that means consistency between OSes . Zsh has nice autocompletion abilities , but I kept finding cases where it did n't know what I wanted . That was several years ago , so it might have improved since then . I 've found that enabling " vi-mode " ( ) in Bash makes it a much nicer command-line environment than it normally is , so I do that immediately in my file . When writing shell scripts I do n't ever program in either bash or zsh - I program using sh ( ) , because it 's the lowest common denominator and the least likely to have compatibility issues . That 's just an old habit that has stood me well .
The short answer is processing speed , screen resolution and memory . The newer ones are obviously faster , and the lastest generation ( 4g ) includes both front and back cameras for shooting video and video calling . For a full list of the differences check out this <URL> .
In the left corner of the top menu , pick the apple menu and select . In the panel , click the button . if you hover your mouse on you can see the general info about your macbook pro such 15 " or 17 " . As <URL> said in comment above solution for before 2007 now choose Graphics/Displays from the left column , it does display the screen resolution .
Both use Lightning cable , so we are good there . Regarding power , the 12W charger is compatible with all iPhones . See product <URL> section of 12W charger . iPhone Models So you should be confident of charging iPhone 6 or 6s with up to 12W charger . The higher the wattage the lesser is the charging time .
I reinstalled the OS and the problem went away . I 'll mark this answer as correct until someone comes with a better one .
<URL> seems to do that by default : It 's not really drag and drop , but you could also <URL> like this :
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
Depending on what you are looking for with HTML5 , one app that helps with creation is <URL> . This looks mostly like it would help with animations ( like you may have previously with Flash ) , but other HTML features are there too .
Taken from my answer at <URL> : Mac OS X Memory Jargon : Wired : This refers to kernel code and such . Memory that should not ever be moved out of the RAM . Also know as resident memory . Shared : Memory that is shared between two or more processes . Both processes would show this amount of memory so it can be a bit misleading as to how much memory is actually in use . Real : This is the " real " memory usage for an application as reported by task_info ( ) - a rough count of the number of physical pages that the current process has . ( RSIZE ) Private : This is memory that a process is using solely on it 's own that is used in Resident memory . ( RPRVT ) Virtual : The total amount of address space in the process that 's mapped to anything - whether that 's an arbitrarily large space for variables or anything - it does not equate to actual VM use . ( VSIZE ) Active : Memory currently labelled as active and is used RAM . Inactive : " Inactive memory is no longer being used and has been cached to disk . It will remain in RAM until another application needs the space . Leaving this information in RAM is to your advantage if you ( or a client of your computer ) come back to it later . " - Mac OS X Help Free : The amount of RAM actually available without any data . The best documentation I know of ( and have been able to find in followup research ) is Apple 's own <URL> article on their developer website . Other worthwhile sources : Darwin-dev mailing list : [ <URL> ] , [ <URL> ] and an old article on <URL> . Additionally Mike Ash has posted a good layman 's introduction on his <URL>
I think you should consider your possibilities . The iOS iMovie version is greatly limited in capacity , not to mention disk space , compared to its sister application . You can share ' projects ' via <URL> , however I use that term loosely . Going back to practicality , if you share a complete project and sync it to your mobile device and lets say this mobile device only has 16GB HDD and you only have a 5GB iCloud storage locker than you will quickly run out of room in easily half of 1 project . With that being said , going back to the mobile devices capabilities , it does n't have all the features your desktop version has so some things get lost in translation , you may lose a transition you set prior , etc. . However , it is a resource to share projects nonetheless . Additionally , the main draw back of iMovie Theater is that it does n't share the PROJECT thats why I was using that term ' loosely ' , it shares the entire project movie with it 's components ( i.e. , background music etc ) that you have created thus far or the selection of the project you dictate . Theoretically , you can download the iMovie project from the theatre to your device and create a new project on your iPhone where you can add clips and edit there . But you wo n't be able to edit the properties in the previous project . What I recommend you doing if your going full scale with this , two of the better options I would recommend is : Get a Time Capsule , you can set it up to wake over WLAN and essentially use it as both a router and external HDD which files you can access from anywhere . Although , this is n't an iOS friendly option , it 's a logical option , because why waste your time creating on an iOS when the features are limited and the projects are decapitated from your devices hardware . Dropbox , Box , Google Drive etc etc etc. . Use a file sharing cloud service to where you can simply save the project there from the get go and edit through that file instead of any of your devices HDD ( unless your planning on doing some high processing features in FCPX with rendering etc ) then that is a viable option . Do n't use iMovie . It 's great and all , but look at its target audience , it 's meant for the people that do n't have much expertise or the attention span to sit and edit videos , it 's one-click and done type editing . Just get a laptop and save yourself a lot of heartache . But to answer your question specifically and without bias , then NO , in regards to iMovie Mac and iMovie iOS you can not sync projects where full functionality is retained .
The Thunderbolt monitor includes a number of integrated peripherals as well as being a monitor : Three powered USB 2.0 ports FireWire 800 port Gigabit Ethernet port Thunderbolt port The actual connector for MiniDisplayPort and Thunderbolt is the same , but Thunderbolt can pass many protocols over the same cable , not just A/V signals .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
So lets compare the i5 family of CPU on MBP . The i5 is a brand name for a family of processor , that is why is it still called i5 . Core i5 " 2.4 13-Inch ( Late 2011 ) features a 32 nm " Sandy Bridge " 2.4 GHz Intel " Core i5 " processor ( 2435M ) , with two independent processor " cores " on a single silicon chip with a 3 MB shared level 3 cache . The <URL> has up to 2.9 GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.3 GHz ) with 3MB shared L3 cache . Based on this alone the 2015 model is > 30 % faster .
This is because your iOS device supports the <URL> ( which is for mobile only ) protocol where Mail and Calendar do not . For your OS X Mail and Calendar to work , you either need : Exchange protocol support in Mail and Calendar meaning Apple has to pay for licensing ( not likely to happen ) IMAP , CalDav , and/or POP3 service enabled on the Exchange Server It sounds like your company has enabled IMAP and/or POP3 support , but nothing for the calendar which is why email works and calendar does not . However , if you have Outlook 2016 and VPN in ( or they enable services on an " edge server " ) , Outlook Mail and Calendar will be able to sync up .
I just read <URL> Yes the LED is hardwired But it can still be bypassed Only downside of <URL> , it was only tested on " old " ( late PPC , early Intel ) macs .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
First off he 's wrong on all levels . The <URL> is $ 29 , the <URL> is $ 500 . A standard <URL> is $ 700 base . <URL> is $ 1000 base . Second , the distributions are pretty much identical . The difference is that the Server Version ships the server applications , tools , and processes . Postfix , Dovecot , Jabberd2 , OpenLDAP , the entirety of the / Applications/Server directory , and some of the things in / Applications/Utilites like XSan management and the RAID Utility . If he 's looking to do development for iOS , getting the server version makes no sense . If he 's looking to do development for Web Services , it 's still easier and cheaper to run it on the Desktop version . If he 's looking to run a server , trivially , for mail services , chat and calendaring services , MORE than just web services ( web services are trivially easy on the Desktop Version ) , then he should get a MacMini Server . Use a Server for a Server for the features it provides , otherwise , use a standard version . [ edit ] We have two versions of XServes , and two Mac Mini Servers ( classic style body ) , I 'd be glad to answer any additional questions you or your friend has .
end question
start question
Can the default contact store for Mountain Lion be iCloud ?
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
Login to iCloud , go to <URL> , select your phone in the drop down list on the top of the page , provided it has Find My iPhone enabled it should show up as offline . <URL> should be available .
Simple answer : No More exact answer : Maybe . You would need to have a inside knowledge of the internal processes of the iCloud . The iCloud is not just one server , but many of them with different parts ( Key Value Storage , Document storage , ... ) I do n't think it 's possible to replace them without extreme inside knowledge . For more info about what exactly the iCloud is ( much more than just a file server ) you could read this <URL> from John Siracusa Of course there are other services which provide the same tools for managing reminders , todos , ... But there is n't a direct replacement for the iCloud and I ca n't imagine that there will ever be one . That would fundamentally contradict with apples philosophy of a closed and controlled environment .
I think if all you 're doing is telling your friends about your app and encouraging them to post honest reviews in the App Store , that 's probably fine . If , however , you were trying to get your friends who 'd never even used the app to positively review it in the App Store , that would probably be considered a breach of that rule .
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
Unfortunately I 'm unaware of any way to do this without a workaround . Here it is : Go to preferences - > signatures and create one that uses the font color you want to use . You have to select the text , right-click , go under font and pick the color from there ( at least on my Lion machine ) Set that signature as your default When you compose a new message , put your cursor on the beginning of the line that the signature is on , hit enter a few times , and when you start typing your message it will be in that font/color . There will be a blank line at the top that is formatted black , which you can backspace to delete , just make sure you 've started typing something first or it will set it back to black .
There was no DVD for Mountain Lion . Since Lion arrived with the App Store as a digital release , the core OS is not something you re-download from the store . You do n't need to pay to re-download , but you do have to go through the Recovery HD to initiate the download . When you buy an upgrade from Snow Leopard to Lion or an upgrade to Mountain Lion - that installer can be re-downloaded , but when the OS is included with a CPU purchase , you do n't need to have an Apple ID or account to re-download the OS . You just enter recovery mode and run the installer . It downloads the package after verifying eligibility by checking the serial number on the Mac hardware . If you interrupt the process , you can grab the installer from the drive - but it 's not something that the system was designed to deliver to you as a downloadable package . It was designed to download and re-install on an " as-needed " basis without needing an account , a password - just an internet connection and some time to wait for the download .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
Apple does n't expose iCloud backups directly to end users via computer or web interface , but you can restore that backup onto pretty much any other iOS device . The new iPhone ( or any iOS device for that matter ) has iOS version the same or newer than the version backed up from the stolen phone . Simply erase all content on the current device ( losing everything in it ) and restore your old backup onto the device . Hopefully , have not " created " much new data on your new phone and do n't have to write down many new contacts or items or export any documents before you erase it . However , you could always back that device up to the same or different iCloud account or to iTunes and restore that once you 've gotten your data to a more portable form .
As of right now , there are no disadvantages . In fact , my fiancée and I do this right now . We share an AppleID for store purchases and set up Home Sharing so that our iPads and MacBooks can share apps , but we have separate iClouds on our machines and everything works fine .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
Here 's a Mountain Lion solution that I hope works on Lion . ( I just worked at this from the other way - <URL> . ) Open Contacts Select On My Mac as the default account . Import a contact or two from a vCard or import your test data set from the Import ... menu Switch back your default account to iCloud . Going forward you can always drag a . vcf / vCard file into the On My Mac list to import there directly without changing the default account .
Quit Mail , edit the . mailsignature file with a text editor changing the HTML to whatever you like then right click the file in Finder and select " Get Info " then tick the " Locked " checkbox . This prevents Mail from resetting the file to the original version and it uses your version .
The Mac App Store does not currently have the concept of an " authorized " or " deauthorized " computer . If you download an app legitimately from the Mac App Store , it is DRM free ( at least with regard to execution ) , and completely functional on your computer . The immediate answer to your question is actually that you can not deauthorize your computer in the Mac App Store :) .
Of course . In adding features , the behavior of previous features changes , not always for the better . If you find features that were present in Lion but missing in Mountain Lion , please edit this answer to add your contributions to this list . Mountain Lion drops support for some models of Macs supported by Lion . Clicking the top right corner no longer triggers Spotlight ( Spotlight 's menubar icon is still present , adjacent to the new Notification Center icon ) . The battery indicator in the menubar will <URL> . <URL> is included , but that app alone no longer provides X11 functionality . When the user first runs X11.app -- or an app that requires X11 -- a <URL> guides the user to Apple 's article <URL> about XQuartz , which provides the functionality . Mail.app and Safari.app drop support for RSS Feeds .
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
Have a look at this hint : <URL> You can ( temporarily ) show the location of the current desktop picture by executing the following command from the Terminal : You can revert this behavior by executing the following :
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
While it may not work in all applications there is a way of doing this for a large number . Certainly it works in , and but not Microsoft Word , where you have to do it within the application . All you need to do is open > > and select in the left hand pane . Click on in the right hand pane and the at the bottom . In the field enter then click in the field and press command-V . Then click on You will now see that your shortcut is added . When you open , for example , you will see that no longer has a shortcut ( you could add one using the same method ) and right next to in the menu is your new working shortcut,command-V . Oh , frabjous joy !
end question
start question
Can I quickly delete all local music ?
Go to Settings ; Tap on > > , then swipe across and tap the delete button that appeared . That should delete all your local music .
Yes , I was able to update from 10.7.3 to 10.8 without running software updates ( 10.7.4 ) and Mountain Lion runs great .
Nope . In the stock keyboard provided by the API , a " Forward Delete " ( as opposed to a Backward Delete/Backspace ) , none of the keys , nor combination therein , provide a Delete keystroke to occur . Your only option , as you now see , is to use an external keyboard to accomplish this . Any other options would just be something else entirely . Like selecting a word , and deleting it , or using replace , etc. .
Bowtie should solve your problem . It 's a free desktop app that talks to a .99 cent app that you download on the iPhone : <URL>
From Menubar 1 . Edit - > Select All 2 . Message - > Mark - > As Read
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
Tap Settings and then tap the iCloud icon . Tap " Storage &amp; Backup . " Tap Manage Storage . Tap your iOS device in the Backups area . Under Backup Options , turn off any items that you no longer wish to back up . Return to Storage &amp; Backup and tap " Back up now . " This will immediately remove the requested backup data from iCloud . Choose " Delete Backup " if you want to turn off Backup and remove all data for that Backup from iCloud . ( via <URL> )
From Apple Support : Warning : If you encrypt an iPhone backup in iTunes and then forget your password , you will not be able to restore from backup and your data will be unrecoverable . If you forget the password , you can continue to back up and use the device , however you will not be able to restore the encrypted backup to any device without the password . You do not need to enter the password for your backup each time you back up or sync . If you can not remember the password and want to start again , you must perform a full software restore and when iTunes prompts you to select the backup from which to restore , choose set up as a new device . I assume it applies also to iPad , and yeah that 's a terrible inconvenience for you , but at least it 's a definitive answer from the source . <URL>
You can do this with a Smart Playlist . Click File - > New Smart Playlist Configure the rule so it reads " Media Kind is Podcast " Make sure the " Limit to " box is unchecked , and that the " Live updating " box is Click OK Once this is done you will have a playlist with all your podcasts . To sort by date , right click the column bar at the top and check " Release Date " . Click on the Release Date column to sort your podcasts by date . The only downside to this view is that this view does not provide the blue dot that indicates whether or not a podcast has been listened to . You can , however , add the " Plays " column and use that instead , as podcasts that have not been listened to will have a play count of " 0 " . You can also have the smart playlist automatically remove played podcasts from the list by editing it and adding the rule " Plays is 0 " .
On my MBA - 10.9.4 the " on my mac " mail folders are in the The Library folder is hidden since OS X Lion , so use the Finder 's " Go To Folder " menu in the " Go " menu and enter that address .
Instead of selecting the artist to display the albums and songs of the artist , tap the image of the artist and the artists songs will play shuffled .
This is exactly what <URL> allows you to do -- stream music stored on my Mac using your iDevice . The short steps for setting this up are : Enable home sharing in iTunes on your Mac : Start iTunes Go to Preferences - > Sharing and make certain ' Share my library on my local network ' is checked . LEAVE ITUNES RUNNING ! Now connect to your shared library from your iDevice : Go to the Settings app and click on the Music settings Scroll down to the bottom of the Music settings page and you 'll see the ' Home Sharing ' setting Enter your iTunes account ID and password to enable your iDevice to see your shared library Use the Music app on your iDevice to access your shared library Open the Music app Your shared iTunes library should now be available as a source of audio in the app This works for video , audio and podcasts as well . If your Mac puts itself to sleep you might need to wake it back up for the shared library to show up in your iDevice before you can stream audio or video from it .
This seems to work on El Capitan . Control-select the file , then Delete Immediately from pop-up menu and confirm .
It should n't effect other devices as iCloud does not automatically sync music between devices other than downloading newly purchased music to all devices if you have iOS configured that way . ( Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store > automatic downloads > music " on " ) That automatic download is one way and one time only not perpetual .
I ended up signing up for iTunes Match over the weekend and I figured I 'd share my experience to anyone who had the same questions I did ... After going through and organizing my collection I came up with about 250 artists and just over 10k songs in total . I signed up for iTunes Match and it did a fantastic job of collecting the metadata , matching available songs , and uploading remaining songs . There were a few small issues with some ineligible songs and duplicates , but nothing major . I 'd say it took about 24 hours total to get everything synced up , but I 'm sure experiences vary widely here . Then after double-checking everything I just went ahead and deleted all my files in iTunes . I would click a given set of songs and then tap the delete key . When prompted , I would select NOT to delete from iCloud , but to move the local files to the trash . After I was finished I had a clean local hard drive and all my music was available for streaming from the cloud ... which is precisely what I wanted . When I enabled iTunes Match on my other computer ( which had a blank iTunes Music section ) , it took all of five seconds to sync up perfectly with my collection in the cloud . So I 'm now able to stream music from iTunes on my Macbook Pro and iMac . Those who are looking to stream to iOS might be out of luck , because from what I 've seen you have to download the songs from iCloud to your device ( although the songs will play as they are downloading ... and I suppose there is nothing to stop you from deleting the files afterward ) . But this ended up being a perfect solution for me since I primarily use Rdio now anyway . I just wanted to delete the 100GB worth of local mp3 files that were cluttering my local hard drive and iTunes Match helped me to do that and still keep my collection out there in the cloud . There still is n't a perfect solution in the music technology world just yet , but I ca n't say enough good things about services like Rdio and iTunes Match . They 've worked great for me .
Judging by the screenshots , doubleTwist allows syncing specific playlists and has smart playlists . Create a smart playlist that would contain all your library but not podcasts ( excluding genre Podcast ) , and sync it .
Because the iPod Touch does n't have a Mute switch like the iPhone , you will have to disable all the alerts in Settings > Sound . This can be done by tapping " None " on each of the Sounds ( i.e. New Mail , etc. ) If you have iOS 6 , you can switch on Do Not Disturb . You can then customize the settings in Notifications > Do Not Disturb . You could allow all calls ( Facetime for later gen iPods ) by changing the " Allow Calls From " settings . However , there will not be any text notifications - or anything else for that matter .
Go to Settings ; Tap on > > , then swipe across and tap the delete button that appeared . That should delete all your local music .
One person sharing two or more Macs , all running Lion Method A : physical share of a disk For your file to be versioned , save first to removable media with a file system that supports permanent version storage . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . Use the volume with other Macs running Lion . Examples : a USB flash drive using MS-DOS ( FAT ) lacks support a USB flash drive using JHFS + does support permanent version storage . Method B : electronic file share of a disk image In a directory that is shared using Apple Filing Protocol ( or any other appropriate <URL> ) , create a disk image , maybe a sparse bundle . Choose a format -- a file system -- that supports permanent version storage . Open the image . For your file to be versioned , save first to the volume that is imaged . Save all versions of the file to that volume . Eject/unmount the volume . At another Mac running Lion : connect to the file server open the image . Hints The <URL> preference pane can help you to enable advanced image options in Disk Utility . An image of a volume may be not reliably backed up whilst the volume is attached/mounted . For reliability , unmount/eject the volume before backing up . Multiple users Either method A or B will work , but both require negotiation between humans :-) Method C For each version that you wish to share , use the Duplicate command then save a separate file . The downside of this traditional approach is separation . Users of other Macs ( not necessarily running Lion ) might take a Cover Flow view of the files , but that 's not as neat as a versions browser view of a single file . AFP , Apple versions and security/privacy You might wonder why saving to an Apple-oriented file service , for example a service using <URL> , does not save Apple versions on the server . Think : privacy , security . Example Someone in Government saves a file that describes the true state of the economy , a state that is terrible . The person changes the file to present a different truth , a truth that will keep the lions at bay , saves his or her changes . When ready to share , the author puts the one file on an AFP server . Other users of the server open the file in any application that supports Apple versions . They see only one version , the most recent . We ( other users ) might wish to see all versions of a file -- including versions that were not intended for sharing -- but for Mac OS X 10.7 ( Build 11A511 ) the sanest default is : share nothing other than the most recent version .
You can use an Automator workflow to download images embedded in a web page , or images linked from a web page . A good starting point for a workflow is : Get Current Webpage from Safari Get Image URLs from Webpage Download URLs You can change the workflow to use a list of web pages to fetch from . Automator is included with Mac OS X in the folder .
end question
start question
Is it possible to downgrade modemfirmware ?
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
An alternative method is to use Safari 's built-in " Reopen All Windows from Last Session " feature :
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
I do n't use it , but <URL> looks like it will easily let you insert a search engine different than what Safari bundles . More intrusive , but way slick in my opinion is the <URL> it 's excellent work and you can customize your search provider since it 's hacked into that part of safari using <URL> - the SIMple Bundle Loader process . I use <URL> and search from a keyboard shortcut - it allows extensive control over searching - you can define custom search sites and criteria easily . It has many other features ( notable extremely quick app and file launching as well as a clipboard history ) but it 's so fast you might like it just for getting a UK search if nothing else fits your needs .
No , since the screenshots are simply taken from the pixels shown on-screen or off-screen . However , the screenshots can be turned into vectors using software such as Adobe Illustrator , but the result wo n't be exact .
You can downgrade by following the steps <URL> ( it 's for iOS 7 beta , but will work for the release version too ) . Keep in mind that Apple usually stops signing the older version of iOS shortly after the release of a new version . Until the time Apple continues signing iOS 6 , you will be able to downgrade the OS . Nobody can predict when Apple would stop signing iOS 6 . Once Apple stops signing iOS 6 , it would n't be possible to downgrade ( unless you look or wait for jailbreaks , hacks and such solutions , which would depend on the iPhone model you have ) .
You can use <URL> . This allows you to set the opacity of a window from the Window menu .
It used to be that two USB audio interfaces/mics would require you to create an aggregate device in order to use them both at the same time with OS X . As this was still the case in early 2014 ( see the Macworld article , below ) , it probably is still the case today . However , there are differing reports when it comes to identical USB devices . Back in 2011 , an audacity user was testing this specifically <URL> : So , far from being the outlier , Aggregate Device is required any time you plug in two identical USB sound devices . But in 2013 , Blue Microphones themselves <URL> : Because of the nature of USB devices , you wo n't be able to use two of the same USB microphones at once . Since they have similar digital thumb prints your computer wo n't be able to distinguish the devices as separate devices . With that being said , you can use two different USB devices/microphones at once with no problem . As far as being able to use it within a specific program you would have to find out if it allows multiple USB connections [ ... ] So , without further information , your best bet would be to try to create an aggregate device from both mics , and then test with an application which can record multiple channels ( which I assume you already have since you want to do this in the first place ) . <URL> gives details : Plug both USB microphones into your Mac , venture to the Utilities folder ( / Applications/Utilities ) and launch Audio MIDI Setup . In the bottom left corner of the resulting window click the plus ( + ) button and choose Create Aggregate Device from the menu that appears . To the right you 'll see a list of all the audio devices attached to your Mac , including those two mics . Tick the Use checkboxes for the two microphones ( if any of them have multiple entries , look for the one that has a 1 in the In column ) . As you do so , subdevices entries will appear above the list of audio devices . This tells you which mic is using input channel 1 and which is using input channel 2 . If you like , click on the name Aggregate Device in the column to the left and change it to something more intuitive such as " Two Mic Setup . " If you are able to do that , then the resulting device should be both mics , one on each channel , so they can be recorded separately ( or , potentially , recorded as stereo and separated later ) . Of course , if only one of the mics appears in Audio MIDI Setup then it 's possible you wo n't be offered the option of selecting them both when creating an aggregate device . Update : Sadly , <URL> suggests it will not be possible but , if you contact Blue , they should be able to ' reprogram ' one of your mics so you can get this working as an aggregate device : Bue Yetis have identical digitial footprints and therefore no matter how many you plug in , they will be recognized as a single device . I contacted Blue and ultimately I was able to send one of my Yetis to them for reprogramming and now my Mac will recognize it along with another Yeti in order to create an aggregate device . Fair warning , this process took over 2 weeks and I had to pay out of pocket shipping , they paid FedEx ground ( signature required ) back to me .
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
If you simply want no filtering &amp; wish to sort mail manually you can just disable Junk filtering altogether from Mail Prefs ... Note : That does n't actually appear to delete the Junk folder - but it does stop it being populated at all .
No , the hardware radio does n't work in the manner needed for AirDrop to function . See the fine print of <URL> which states : AirDrop is available on iPhone 5 or later , iPad ( 4th generation ) , iPad mini , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires an iCloud account
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
Minimal OS version requirements vary from application to application , so there is no general yes or no . The minimal OS version is part of the application description in the store though , so the best approach here would be for your daugther to look at her key applications in the store and check whether all of them will work with earlier OS versions as well .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
Even if the creation tools are gone or hidden very well from us , you point out Lion is happy to keep running a user that has been migrated in so you can take advantage of that to get what you had back again . Lion makes it several steps with some minor " complications " - but you should be able to Migrate another user shell in and move your current data into that older style account . It 's slightly tricky to juggle the users - you 'll want a backup and need to set up a second admin account to do the move . You 'll delete the user , but not the files and import the old user ( clear the old data ) and finally move the new data into place using the old storage mechanism . You 'll need one of a running Snow Leopard system or boot disk ( to make and then migrate a FileVault 1 user ) a backup of the system from Snow Leopard days ( even if the user data is wrong - you just need the account settings and shell sparse bundle to migrate in again ) I keep an external USB drive with 15G partitions around with the last OS but no real user data . You could install Snow Leopard onto an external disk or partition and make shell user with FileVault 1 enabled or you could use any backup from your Snow Leopard time to move in another copy of your user with FV1 - and simply move the current contents into the old encrypted sparse bundle storage . Let 's start a new question if you want advice HOW to actually do this ( since it will depend on your specifics ) - this question stands well just with the simple fact that the built in tool to do this is n't available on Lion .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
Yes , Apple sells older OS as redeemable downloads from the web store . Apple sells <URL> , <URL> , for # 14 each on the UK store . The US store link is below and it appears the part number is the same no matter which store you select : <URL> <URL>
You will need to renew your dev certificate and your provisions to upload apps from Xcode to stock iOS devices .
end question
start question
What is the recommended partition scheme for mac os x ?
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
On Apple hardware , yes - <URL> . Otherwise , no - it 's a violation of the EULA .
From the article at <URL> Press Command-Option-Esc to force quit , it brings up a dialog so you can choose which app to quit . Command-Option-Shift-Esc for three seconds will force quit the front-most application . Here is another helpful article : <URL>
If you are looking for something that keeps track of servers/connections via a GUI , Terminal.app will already do that for you . Launch it and then from the menu select Shell > New Remote Connection . This will give you a connections manager window .
According to <URL> , the Power Mac G4 ( Mirrored Drive Doors 2003 ) is the newest and most powerful computer that can run Mac OS 9 . 1.25 GHz PowerPC G4 ( 7455/7455B ) ; can hold up to 2 GB memory ( although OS 9 might not recognize all 2 GB ) .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
Ok thanks for your help , but I solved the problem on my way , here 's what I 've done : Backup everything important to an external Harddrive Inserted the Mac Installation Disc and ruined there the disc utility app . I removed everything from my HD and it was GUID-Partioned . Now I just installed Mac Os X 10.6.2 and updated to 10.6.8 Now I could run the installer of Mac Os X Lion without any problems and as a benefit of the whole thing , I started with a brand new Mac Os X Installation , without any trash in the file system .
<URL> DB Browser for SQLite is a light GUI editor for SQLite databases , built on top of Qt . The main goal of the project is to allow non-technical users to create , modify and edit SQLite databases using a set of wizards and a spreadsheet-like interface .
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
The OS X equivalent of Windows Task Manager is Activity Monitor , located in / Applications/Utilities / , or type Activity Monitor in Spotlight . See Activity Monitor 's internal Help : Activity Monitor > Help > Activity Monitor Help For more information see Apple 's Support Document : <URL> Also , as mentioned by klanomath , for more specialized scenarios there is Instruments in Xcode . ( Xcode > Developer Tools > Instruments ) Help for the Command Line version of Instruments , in a Terminal type : Or see Apple 's <URL> .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
YES it 's installed by default . It 's in the installation options where users can tick or untick to install X11 . But by default it 's ticked in 10.5 , 10.6 and 10.7
<URL> . However , it 's a hidden switch , and it 's not supported . Use it at your own risk . OS-level support for a file system is a major technical investment . It 's not just about knowing the rules . There are fundamental differences between HFS + and NTFS , such as characters supported in the name and maximum file size . When writing an OS , not to mention applications , it 's very easy to make assumptions in your code that rely on the expected file system . Reading a file from a different file system is significantly easier than writing a file to a different file system . In only reading a file , there is very little chance of data loss . In writing a file , it is imperative that the act of writing the file does not lose data ( either in the file that you are writing , or other files on the disk ) . Supporting another file system means that there is a massive expense to the OS development and test teams . If you take a look at this <URL> , you can see many places where these two file systems differ . Without official support for NTFS , the safest assumption is that it has n't been sufficiently tested and might not support all of the features of NTFS .
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
According to <URL> , the iMac5 ,1 was released in 2006 , and is thus not on the <URL> . Whether Mavericks can be hacked to run on your machine is a different question .
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
end question
start question
Is AFP ( specifically Time Machine ) encrypted on the wire ?
Short answer , no it 's not . As with most of the file transfer protocols ( SMB , FTP , NFS ) it transfers data in plain text .
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
Time machine does n't care what else is on the destination drive as long as the volume ( partition ) you choose meets the minimum requirements . If the volume you select is n't formatted properly , Time Machine will offer to erase and reformat the part of the drive that will contain your backups . You might want to try resizing partitions using whatever tool you want before you start accumulating a lot of Time Machine data in case you want to be able to adjust the size of the partitions down the road , but that 's more of a problem with partitioning and not something that Time Machine causes .
The Time Machine functionality that OS X Server provides is to allow an remote OS X machine to use the server as a Time Machine backup disk . The server will create a sparsebundle for each remote machine it is backing up . OS X Server includes a way of controlling and administrating services that can be implemented on normal OS X . In this case you can create a sparse bundle and share it in plain OSX ( or as is done in many Network Attached Servers in Linux/BSD ) For your case as you are not using the server as a remote TM backup then OS X Server does not provide much here . With normal OSX you can share the external disk via AFP , samba but these are better not to expose across the internet for security reasons or better use ssh to remotely access the Mac .
Yes - whether you have a USB or other direct drive or a network drive , Time Machine will cooperate with different Mac backing up to the same destination . The only problem would be if you enabled FileVault on a direct attached drive since only Lion and later can read those .
I feel your pain . I spent the past few years on satellite and it was very unpleasant . Your best bet for monitoring and controling your Internet usage is buy <URL> . It will monitor your Mac and tell you every time that it is trying to make a connection , allowing you to allow or deny the request . For some apps ( such as email , web browser , etc ) , you may want to allow access anytime it wants it so you do n't have to approve each time . The first few days of using LittleSnitch will be frustrating , as you start to set rules and tell it what to do , but after you get past that , it will be a big help in keeping your usage in check . Unfortunately OS X is not very good about telling you everything that it is doing , and it assumes that any available Wi-Fi connection can be used without limits . Until recently iOS was much better about this , but it now allows much more background activity , so if you have an iPad and/or iPhone/iPod touch you need to watch out for those as well . When you are not using MacBook , I recommend closing the lid so that it will sleep .
Yes . It is known that FSEvents is the basis for Time Machine , and in fact Spotlight indexing as well before that . In both cases , it acts as a tripwire for the relevant parts of your system , so that Time Machine knows what it needs to back up and Spotlight knows what it needs to index . However , using FSEvents for backups does leave a tiny bit of room for error , as you have probably discovered . <URL> details another idiosyncrasy . <URL> is a brilliant little app that can help you delve into the FSEvents world if you are interested . At the end of the day , Time Machine is n't really considered professional-grade . It 's brilliant for what it is , and I still use it , but I highly recommend pairing it with something like a weekly full disk clone ( off-site if possible ) for a more comprehensive backup strategy .
According to information from <URL> , the answer is no , it will not support encrypted Time Machine backups to network-attached storage . They 're specifically mentioning Time Capsules and Airport Extremes . The issue Paul Eccles mentioned looks to be related to whether you can backup to NAS with Time Machine at all without regard to encryption status . The link referenced also seems to indicate you ca n't use Time Machine encryption on direct-attached storage , but that may be because you can use Disk Utility to encrypted a direct-attached volume instead . Commenter Fracai calls out the classic standby of creating an encrypted disk image , storing that on network-attached storage , and mounting that for your Time Machine backups . I 'll also point out the discussion on that page ( which is slightly inaccurate , but mostly on ) wherein commenter TrumpetPower ! cautions encrypting backups . This is a point worth repeating here . I 'll rephrase ( more precisely and accurately ) what TrumpetPower ! wrote : The purpose of a backup is to preserve availability of data . The purpose of encryption is to prevent availability of data without the key used to encrypt the data . If you encrypt a backup , you add complexity to a process designed to simplify and preserve access to your information . With complexity comes increased probability of failure . Thus , the chance that you lose access to your backed-up data goes up . Do yourself a favor and make sure you understand when and why you might wish to encrypt your backups and think hard about how you 'll ensure you have access to your encryption key when it counts .
According to <URL> , " The iTunes Store and Mac App Store uses Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) encryption on all functions that require personal information . " So passwords are sent encrypted , not in cleartext . If the NSA is packet sniffing at your local Starbucks , chances are they know how to get your password ( but if they 're looking for your App store password , you 've got bigger problems ) , but it should be reasonably safe .
22 hours is very long indeed . I have encrypted a 1TB drive in less time before . The encryption is handled by a " live background process " . " This process continues seamlessly across reboots . The logical volume remains usable at all times . " from man page > diskutil > encryptVolume Maybe this daemon hangs or simply halted because the drive is not mounted ( which is fine ) . So you should just re-mount it again . Alternatively , I would try I restart the daemon by simply restarting the computer . Once the Time Machine backup is mounted again , the daemon will continue encrypting the drive . Checking the encryption progress using diskutil You can check the status of the encryption by using the command : In the nested tree you will see a Logical Volume Family which is currently being encrypted . If you drive is being encrypted , you should see the entry .
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
<URL> by Agile Bits may suit your needs and has just been updated to version 4 . Sync your notes ( and passwords ) on the LAN to your other devices or via DropBox . ( Only encrypted data is sent to Dropbox as per your requirement . )
If you make two different partitions in the external HD , you can easily have the two different Time Machine backup in the each partition . You only need to specify the partition to use for the MacBook during the initial Time Machine setup . Then the Mac would know which partition to use for its backup the next time you connect the external HD . The same goes for the second MacBook . By doing so you could limit the amount of space taken up by he Time Machines of both Macs .
SIMBL is not a part of Apple 's Mac OS X package , but is an extension that can be used by other developers in their own work to extend applications where they may not have the original source code ( like Safari ) . SIMBL-related files can be found either in or .
This tutorial should be able to help you : <URL> I just tried it and it worked for me . Not sure how reconnects will go after a reboot or something , but it should n't be that difficult to get working again .
Will ( Time Machine ) delete the oldest backups only from the current machine 's backups ( the retina MBP ) , or will it delete the PowerBook 's backups since those are technically the oldest ( even though they 're from a different machine ) ? Time Machine only deletes the oldest backup for the current machine . OS X utilizes the File System Event Store to log each UUID during the backup process . Your machine 's UUID should match whatever backups have been done previously for that machine , and only that machine 's events are handled . All other events are effectively ignored . You 'll need to thin them out by hand using this command : <URL>
I think what you could do is creating a encrypted disk image on the external HDD and put your time maschine files in it for the timeframe your friend has the disk . To achieve this open the disk utility tool and choose File - > New - > Blank Disc Image ( or Image From Folder ) . BUT keep in mind that as long as this disk is not ( re - ) formatted properly it will be easy to recover unencrypted data which seems to be deleted or moved ( using some fancy recovery tools ) .
Yes - if you have n't excluded the folder from the Time Machine backups . As for system patches - you 're installing a new OS . Once you finish , load up the Software Update and it 'll pull down the most recent Combo Update for you . Actually , it 's better to use the combo update than a collection of patches you would have otherwise . For more on this go to System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Time Machine & #x 2192 ; Options . It 'll tell you what , if anything , you 've excluded . No . As long as you have sufficient space , you 'll be fine . It does n't need to be an identical drive .
A primitive work around would be to set two alarms , both with no snooze . Alarm 2 can be set X minutes after Alarm 1 .
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
end question
start question
Safari extension to monitor web pages for changes ?
I do n't know any extension like this one , but I 've used <URL> which works really fine . It 's a small app in your menubar and gets the job done .
Click the down arrow on the column header and select Sort Ascending or Sort Decending .
Try this ... Save the file locally on your windows computer . Right click on the file and select rename . Remove . pages extension and enter . zip as the extension and press enter . Open the zip file and it should allow you open the file and its contents .
If you hover you mouse over the name of the Process a Tooltip will show up telling you the URL Base domain
I would n't go playing with kexts , they do n't like being dragged around . You 'll end up with a kernel panic &amp; have to pick it apart in single user mode - let 's leave that kind of thing to the hackintosh kiddies . LCC comes with an uninstaller , in Applications/Utilities which would be a far better bet .
Never mind ! I found the answer here : <URL> I will delete this question now ! EDIT - Since some are upvoting this question , I will echo the <URL> in the linked question ( supplied by @slhck ) . A straightforward solution exists , because AppleScript specifically offers a command designed to do exactly what I 'm looking for . And that will make the file extension visible !
I 'm not sure it 's the same effect you 're looking for , but to apply different borders in Pages I followed these steps : Place the picture where you want it in your document Open the by holding CMD+I Go to the tab : Go to the menu and choose from the drop-down menu . Now you can choose a picture frame and alter its appearance by using the slider .
There 's no such possibility . App developer would need to implement this in the app . P.S. . You can open links from Facebook in Safari - > click " Share " when viewing the link and choose " Open in Safari " . <URL> Image from : <URL>
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
The current versions of uTorrent and bitTorrent , as of July 2013 , bundle the SearchMe extension in their package installers . Shady .
<URL> generally answers the question of legality . Including these font files in your app and using them with or is unquestionably not permitted . However , for a web app you can non-explicitly use it by <URL> <URL> : This will of course result in slightly different appearances per platform and version ( namely non-Apple platforms and Apple systems before iOS 9/OS X 10.11 ) .
Open in Chrome Service You can make a Service in 10.6 or 10.7 using Automator that will open a selected URL in Chrome . Here 's how : Open Automator When Automator asks you to Choose a type for your document window , select Service Change the " Service receives selected " drop-down to " URLs " Add a Run AppleScript action ( found under the Automator Library , or just search ) by dragging from the left pane to the right Copy the code below to the text field ( replacing all the existing text ) Save and give the service a name ( it will be added automatically to the services menu ) Code : This will open any selected URL in Safari or other application in Chrome , either in a new tab in the most recent window , or a new window if there is no open Chrome window . To access it , right-click and under the Services item at the bottom of the menu , you should see an item with the name you assigned . One important caveat : OS X seems to be a bit picky/buggy about passing link to this sort of service . It works fine if you have text selected as a URL , but it only seems to work on some links . If I discover a better method , I 'll update this post with it . You may also need to restart Safari for the service to appear .
I do n't believe this is the problem of Sublime Text as I am also using OSX 10.7.5 and have the same problem when viewing files and folders on a NAS ( network server ) . For some reason the Finder does n't ' build ' the folder/subfolder view as it used to on my earlier OSX 10.4.11 iMac - so it MUST be the newer operating system and Finder . I have to force the Finder to quit and relaunch it for it to show me the up to date cached file system . It is causing me a real problem .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
I 'm using <URL> . Translate only what i want ( selected text or whole page ) , inject translated text into the page , no button ( right click menu ) .
Another option to run GreaseMonkey scripts is <URL> ( which is what I use ) . It 's a Safari 5 extension , which means it 's just a tad safer than GreaseKit .
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
Although there is no official documentation by Apple , you can still get some information by watching iTunes and iOS doing their stuff . This can be done by monitoring log files of both , on the iPhone this can be done over an USB connection . Here 's a couple of what I 've already seen the iPhone doing in the " waiting for xy " sync stages : After copying new media to the iPhone , the media needs to be indexed , e.g. there 's metadata to be processed , thumbnails need to be created etc. . Until that is done , the media ca n't be displayed correctly in the corresponding iPhone apps , so iTunes waits for the iPhone Media Indexer service to complete it 's work . When copying new apps to an iPhone , the packaged - files need to unpack and install , e.g. register in the iPhone 's homescreen , app lists , file extension databases etc , this is done during that stages of sync . The spotlight search might need time to index new files , iTunes waits for this as well ( not always , but sometimes ! ) When iTunes transfers files to an iPhone , it always verifies the file 's contents in several ways , being it archive integrity or hashes that are compared . These processes do need plenty of time , depending on the size of the transferred data , and iTunes waits for successful verification in order to complete the sync . When there are copy failures detected by any of the verification methods , iTunes will copy the files again . Often these processes are not displayed by iTunes , it is done during the " Waiting for items to copy " - processing . iTunes will also wait for copy processes to terminate successfully , there are streams and sockets to close when data is transferred between computers . Although this should happen instantly , sometimes there are failures and the iPhone needs some time . In general , you can say that iTunes utilizes these stages for verification and error correction as well as doing " completional " work . They get extremely useful especially when using WiFi sync , which is much more error-prone than USB . Edit : To view the log files of an iPhone/iPad , no jailbreak is required . The best tool probably is <URL> , a bundle of free open-source software licensed under <URL> . It is capable of handling an iOS device without the need of iTunes , so even on linux machines . Although being desinged for linux machines , it can be run on Mac as well , e.g. by compiling the <URL> , or , even easier , by installing through <URL> . Although I 'm always using it on linux machines , this should work the same way on Mac OS X . You probably need to pair your iPhone first , use the - binary for this . It should find your USB-connected iPhone on it 's own , if it does n't , you can try passing the UUID of your device . After paring succeeded ( it will display a success-message to your terminal interface ) , use the - application to view the log files of your iPhone . It will connect to the - socket of your device automatically , if it does n't , you may pass the UUID again . Then all log messages will get posted to on your computer , e.g. to your terminal output . There is proprietary software as well that allows you to read the logs on your iOS device , but as a command line - and open source-tool should be preferred .
end question
start question
Put the display to sleep without putting the whole computer to sleep ?
You can turn off your iMac ( and your macbook ) screen without sleeping via the following keyboard shortcut : ⌃ + ⇧ + ⏏ ( Control + SHIFT + EJECT ) Machines like the Air and newer MacBook Pro with no optical drives have the power button in the same place as the eject key and it works similarly for display sleeping shortcuts .
Ctrl + Shift + Eject will turn off the displays but leave the computer active . Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power ⌽ for some Macbook
The thunderbolt display actually has a number of additional peripherals in it : Gigabit-Ethernet Network interface card . Firewire 800 interface 4 USB ports on a PCIe-USB adapter Webcam ( " Facetime " ) camera ( connected internally via USB to the USB-PCIe adapter ) Speakers and a microphone ( ditto ) It also has a laptop charger ( magjack ) for convenience . This is accomplished via the fact that <URL> can carry PCIe signals in addition to the normal display image , so the peripherals in the display act like they 're built into the laptop . Thunderbolt combines PCI Express ( PCIe ) and DisplayPort ( DP ) into a serial data interface that can be carried over a single cable . Thunderbolt controller chips multiplex data lanes from these two sources for transmission via a duplex Thunderbolt lane then de-multiplex them for consumption from receiver chips . There is actually the potential to even have an entire GPU in the external display , though no current devices implement the option .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
( <URL> ) is the preferred method for scheduling events in OS X , as opposed to using . Here is a method for putting an OS X computer to sleep at a specified time using built in OS X tools without the override alert prompt . Waking the computer up can still be handled via System Preferences → Energy Saver → Schedule . First create the following shell script in named : Then create a plist file for scheduling a script to be run daily . It would look like this : You would probably want to put this in with the filename . Adjust the time and name as needed . You can load the plist using the command or reboot the computer and it should be loaded on system startup . If you are not comfortable with using files and command line tools then search for the paid OS X app named Lingon which handles the creation of the plist file and loaded it . <URL> , which is the command line tool for managing power setting in OS X. Although can be used to set sleep and wake schedules , you 'll still get that alert box on scheduled sleep . The command causes the computer to go to sleep immediately without an alert .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
Have you considered cloning your current hard drive ? With a utility like Carbon Copy Cloner ( which you can use for free for 30 days , I think ) , and an external interface for your new hard drive ( USB , Firewire , etc. ) , you can clone -- i.e. make a bit-for-bit copy of your operating system and installed programs -- the drive that 's currently in your computer . Then , when you install the new hard drive , the computer should see it as the boot disk and everything should pick up exactly where you left off -- just with a lot more storage .
You can change the library location from the window on the tab . and select the tab . At the top where it says click the button : In the Finder window that opens , move the to the place where you 'd rather it exist . This can take some time if it 's a large library . Once it 's moved , double click on it in Finder and your Photos app will update and point to the new location .
Time machine does n't care what else is on the destination drive as long as the volume ( partition ) you choose meets the minimum requirements . If the volume you select is n't formatted properly , Time Machine will offer to erase and reformat the part of the drive that will contain your backups . You might want to try resizing partitions using whatever tool you want before you start accumulating a lot of Time Machine data in case you want to be able to adjust the size of the partitions down the road , but that 's more of a problem with partitioning and not something that Time Machine causes .
You may use the " service order " functionality of Network pref pane . Go to System Preferences > Network > Click on the gear bellow the network list > Set Service Order ... There you may choose the order of which the networks will be used .
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
After talking to VMware support , there are two possible solutions to this problem : Open your Mac 's system preferences , go to Energy Saver and disable the option " Put hard disks to sleep when possible " . With that option deactivated , I had no sleep wake failures . Pause or suspend your virtual machines prior to sending your Mac to sleep .
<URL> is a paper by Matthew Brocker and Stephen Checkoway from the Johns Hopkins University . In this paper they explain on how to disable the LED when using the camera . In short : normally you use the CPU to access the camera and activate the LED , but you can also use the processing unit in on the camera board itself and this will not activate the green LED . The authors also provide software to protect you against these problems . iFixit had the same question and their <URL> was also based on the same paper : according to the researchers , the vulnerability they discovered affects " Apple internal iSight webcams found in earlier-generation Apple products , including the iMac G5 and early Intel-based iMacs , MacBooks , and MacBook Pros until roughly 2008 . " While the attack outlined in the paper is limited to these devices , researchers like Charlie Miller suggest that the attack could be applicable to newer systems as well . " There 's no reason you ca n't do it -- it 's just a lot of work and resources but it depends on how well [ Apple ] secured the hardware , " Miller says . In short : Yes , the iSight can be used without green light as it is not hardwired .
<URL> allows adding a column for either short paths or absolute paths . See also <URL> .
After the rMBP or the MacBook Air are left sleeping for one hour , they enter a deep sleep mode in order to conserve battery . Traditional Macs without SSDs do not enter this mode , so they might awake from sleep a bit faster . To answer your question , that is normal behavior .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
Ctrl + Shift + Eject will turn off the displays but leave the computer active . Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power ⌽ for some Macbook
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
I have discovered that 100 % of the times that this happened to me , it was because I either had : A USB ( or Firewire ) peripheral connected that was pooling the bus and for some mysterious reason caused your behavior . I accidentally moved the mouse ( or the table where both mouse/key lie ) ; small vibrations caused the mouse to register movement and that was enough to wake the box . I do n't know if this is your case , but whenever you 're in the " it wakes up ! " cycle , try to disconnect everything and use the keyboard shortcut with surgeon precision and softness and see if it changes . Additionally you might want con check the Console Output of the logs to see if there 's an error going on while your invoke your sleep screen shortcut .
I have a fairly generic ( mathematical ) answer , but can only find some of the actual numbers . After finding the 2010 Mac Mini <URL> from Apple , there are four important numbers : Tbooting = The time taken to boot up and shut down ( s ) Pbooting = The power consumption while booting or shutting down ( W ) Psleep = The power consumption while sleeping ( W ) Poff = The power consumption while off ( W ) The last is actually stated in the Mac Mini 's environmental report , and for very low sleep power usage ca n't just be ignored ! The total energy used during a period of sleep is : The total energy used from shutting down , being off for a time and booting up is : Requiring that , we can rearrange the inequality to give : The Mac Mini 's environmental report provides Psleep and Poff , and if we assume say 90 seconds total booting/shutting-down time and about 35W during said times , this would give an answer of 45 minutes . I 've yet to find similar values for the laptops ( they make a big deal about the Mac Mini being so energy efficient ) , and the booting power/times would really need to be measured to provide accurate figures . But it surprised me that it was only 1 hour ( I was expecting somewhat longer based on claims I 've read in the past , that went along the lines of <URL> ) . As @mankoff points out , there 's another option which is to hibernate using something like <URL> . In my experience this is usually faster than a full shutdown , and of course it uses the same ( incredibly low ) power while off/hibernating . So to compare mathematically , you can consider it a " shutdown " of sorts and use the same equations ( with the time taken to enter and recover from hibernate as Tbooting and the power usage while it swaps between RAM and disk as Pbooting ) . More than likely , this will reduce the the time answer since Tbooting should have been reduced somewhat . A final thought is that laptop batteries seem to lose voltage over time , even when off , at a higher rate than the Mac Mini 's advertised Poff . So the Poff value might actually be quite a bit higher for a computer with a battery , which may significantly lengthen the threshold between standby and shut-down/hibernate ( however the battery and charging circuitry will complicate measurements of Poff ) . And to further complicate things ( and possibly ruin the whole argument ! ) , more recent Mac laptops will write the contents of RAM to the disk even when they go to sleep , in case your battery runs flat while sleeping ( effectively preparing for a hibernate in case it 's forced ) .
end question
start question
Can I use a Early 2011 MacBook Pro 13 " charger with my Late 2013 MacBook Pro 13 " with the MagSafe Adapter ?
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
Unless there is some reason to the contrary that I 'm not aware of , yes , you can use your MacBook charger with your iPhone . The power adapter will only convert as much power as is drawn , and the iPhone will only draw as much power as it needs . ( Note that it is not a good idea to charge your MacBook with an iPhone or iPad charger ! )
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
According to Apple 's <URL> for the 2015 13 " MBP , it is possible : " Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on up to two external displays ... "
This is not a limitation of the hardware . This is a limitation of the <URL> required to allow Windows to boot with other non-Windows operating systems . The MBR partitioning scheme only supports 4 primary partitions . The <URL> that Mac OS X uses by default is able to handle more that 4 partitions but <URL> .
Ok , days of reading later ; the answer is ' Yes ' with following requirements Need to output a native dual link DVI signal at 2560x1440 Need a mini Display port to Dual Link DVI ( Apple or Monoprice )
The 85W MagSafe adapter should do the trick for you . It 's compatible with the original MagSafe design and provides enough power for all of the Intel Macs up to this point . Picking up a 45W or 60W would n't save any money and though they would both run all of the Intel Mac laptops they be insufficient for powering a larger ( 15 " / 17 " ) Mac back to life since they require 85W . Should Apple move completely away from the MagSafe design to the slimmer MagSafe 2 design you can add the adapter .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
The late 2013 Macbook Pro 13 " only has one fan . You can see here in <URL> . Apple do n't publish figures for normal working range temperature for their devices , and unfortunately you 'll find many and varied opinions online . Apple do publish <URL> if you are concerned that your Macbook is overheating though .
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
Does the real-world battery life scale linearly with it 's capacity ? No , because it also depends on current draw . If you have a 10 watt hour battery , and you pull 10 watts from it , you will likely get less than 1 hour of time due to losses inside the battery . If you instead pull 1 watt from it , you 'll get closer to 10 hours of usage , because the losses are not as good at lower current draws . As batteries age the losses become worse . The internal damage that occurs over time due to the charge/discharge cycle causes additional internal cell resistance . So a new battery will give you more of its rated capacity ( and use less internally during use ) than an old battery . The old battery will give you less of its rated capacity ( and consume more internally than the new battery ) than a new battery would . Is this number a reliable indicator of present and future battery life ? It 's an estimate , and now that the battery has higher internal losses it will depend much more greatly on how much power you 're drawing . If you 're using the processor and graphics chipset at capacity , then add wireless , bright screen , etc on top of that you probably wo n't be able to use the entire measured capacity . Therefore it 's not reliable , as it depends on your actual usage scenario . If , instead , you 've got it playing itunes with the lid closed , it will use a larger percentage of that capacity before it indicates depletion . What kind of realistic usage am I likely to get from a new battery under Lion ? Unfortunately you 're trying to compare Lion 's consumption with your previous OS consumption . I ca n't answer that question , and even if I had the same model and recently changed the battery I have a different use case , so my experience would n't necessarily apply to use . I can tell you that often one battery will degenerate more than the others in multi cell pack , and if discharged under controlled conditions you can get the full capacity of each individual cell , but under heavy discharge the bad cell is a weak link , and the whole battery pack will shut down prior to depleting the other good cells . This means that there are several good reasons to replace your battery , and the most likely outcome is significantly increased battery life . However there 's no way to guarantee that due to your individual circumstances and usage . The tools you 're using are ok , but without removing and testing each cell individually under a few different discharge conditions you ca n't know fully how the battery will compare to new batteries . So the tools ca n't be counted on to give you more than a rough estimate . If I were in your situation , though , I 'd expect to get approximately the same life out of a new battery under Lion as I got out of the new battery under the previous OS . The difference might be slightly greater , but still minimal .
The tolerances in the unibody macs are very , very tight and the area is located behind the battery , so Apple does not recommend users without training on servicing the delicate back sides of the battery clean it other than spraying air lightly from the outside . I 've found setting it up vertically and open helps with gravity bringing the grit towards the most open side of the trackpad . ( The part closest to you that swings free and presses on the physical spring . ) It 's not hard to find the tools or the steps - <URL> , but I prefer to take it in to the genius bar for cleaning as long as it 's a convenient trip . If you 're careful , you should be able to get inside the mac and see how much debris is inside and whether it 's worth a trip to the shop or to learn how to clean it better yourself . Getting the back off is all you need following the memory replacement instructions to have a peek .
There is no hardware virtualization to turn on or off like on Wintel PCs . That switch and many other BIOS switches are there because ( at least in part ) the hardware manufacturers do n't make the hardware AND software , like Apple does . It is always on in any Mac that has a processor that supports virtualization . Pretty much any Mac in the last several years does so you are good to go with this one .
According to <URL> , anything that works in the US should work in the Bahamas . Voltage : 110-120 Volts ( Same as U.S. / Canada , most other areas are 220-240 Volts ) Primary Socket Types : North American Non-Grounded , North American Grounded
According to <URL> This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . ... so I 'd say ' yes ' .
According to Apple ( <URL> ) : 4 MacBook Pro ( Retina , Mid 2012 ) , MacBook Pro ( Retina , 13-inch , Late 2012 ) , and Mac Mini ( Late 2012 ) computers can use an HDMI-compatible device on it 's HDMI port while using one Thunderbolt display , or they can use two Thunderbolt displays .
end question
start question
I uninstalled Dropbox but still have . dropbox listed when I do ls - a. Why ?
Removing Dropbox does n't delete its preferences/cache/etc , which is stored in ~ / . dropbox . You can delete this yourself .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
<URL> and <URL> are your friends . A <URL> is due to bad memory management of the application . Basically , it allocates memory but fails to release it when finished . Therefore , as the application continues to run , it keeps allocating free memory until there is no more . The fact that certain browsers use more or less memory has nothing to do with there being a memory leak . Chrome likes to have individual processes for each tab or session ( more memory ) where Firefox does the opposite . Memory is cheap now so there is less of a need to be efficient , but there is a need for higher performance . The real issue is what to do about memory leaks - since most people do n't reprogram and self-patch a program like FireFox - you can quit a program that has leaks or just log out . Mac OS ( as well as most other operating systems ) then release all the leaked memory and return it to the system pool . Leaks happen , so as an educated user you can watch for them and tend to leaky programs as opposed to letting them run continually .
You would n't have to buy a separate license , if you are a part of developer team on provisioning portal . Since you have a admin role , the certificates , devices and identifiers section should be visible to you . If you are not able to see them , probably the team agent has not yet accepted the latest terms and conditions released by Apple , with the new iOS and OSX . You just need to contact the Agent of your team to sort this issue .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
You can delete it ! Hide works only for moments , so in moments hidden photos wo n't appear
You ca n't do it out of one copy of the app , but it seems that you can duplicate the app . You can see ( somewhat complicated ) instructions here : <URL> I have n't done this personally , but this looks like it should work .
The verification is for your Apple ID for purchases . You can either set the payment option to if you 're from the US or add a credit card to it . This eases the payment option if you plan to buy apps from the store later . But in the case of downloading Yosemite , You will not be charged for anything .
On your iPhone , force close all the Apps in the multitask window . Depending on your version of iOS , you do the following : On iOS 7 and before : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Tap and hold on the app . When it starts to jiggle , tap the X to close it . Repeat until all the apps have been closed . On iOS 8 : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Swipe the application preview window upwards to close the app . ( you can close multiple apps at once ) Repeat until all the apps have been closed . Now do a Soft reset of your iPhone : Hold both Home and Sleep button for around 10secs until you see the Apple logo then release . After it returns to Home screen , connect to sync and see if this resolves the issue . Source : <URL>
Us Mac users ask the same question the other way : Why do you need an ( un ) installer for everything in Windows ? The majority of Mac programs are complete bundles - all their resources are in the Application 's folder ( right click on App icon - > Show Package Contents ) . So they will run from anywhere , there 's a system variable that tells the code where it is . Often , an application can be run directly from the downloaded DMG and even from a remote server . Bit of a performance hit but it will work . User settings are in the user 's library , there are also system routines to handle the mechanics . Macs have no central registry that requires setup ( or maintenance ) so nothing needs to go there either . If you are developing Mac applications you should try very hard to not need an installer - only if you are installing shared libraries or shell-level services . In general , it 's possible to do without . Since you are heading towards iOS programming I would suggest just not worrying about it . iOS rules will tell you where to save what , and it is NOT negotiable . Preferences go here , user data goes there . You will use the supplied APIs . Comply . Obey .
I do n't know how to do it exclusively in Keynote , but it is indeed possible to mirror two of three displays . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
As far as I can tell , Final Cut Studio 2 will run on Lion , but will not install on Lion . Apparently , the installer program requires Rosetta , but the software itself does not . So yes , it should work , if it never needs reinstallation , but if it does , you 're stuck . Proceed with caution . Sources : <URL> personal experimentation
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
With iOS 7 You can not untrust with iOS 7 . Once you respond with " Trust " , you can not change it . If it 's not prompting you now when you connect , it means you have chosen to trust it before . Snippet from the end of this Apple support article titled " <URL> " : Additional Information Note : If you select Trust , the computer will be trusted indefinitely . If you select Do n't Trust , you will be asked if you want to trust that computer each time you connect your device to that computer . Last Modified : Sep 18 , 2013 With iOS 8 With iOS 8 , Apple has provided ways to untrust all previously trusted computers ( there is no way to untrust computers selectively ) . Depending on how you do it , this will result in losing your location and privacy settings or losing your network settings or losing everything with the " erase device " option . The <URL> KB article referenced above has been updated as follows : If you tap Trust , the computer will be trusted until you untrust all computers or you erase the device . If you tap Do n't Trust , you 'll see this alert each time you connect your device to that computer . If you 're using iOS 8 or later : To untrust all computers , tap Settings > General > Reset > Reset Location &amp; Privacy . This will also reset your location and privacy settings . You can also untrust all computers by tapping Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings . This will also reset your network settings . Last Modified : Sep 17 , 2014
I believe that whilst this capability is not included in the official dropbox app , it is possible to accomplish using GoodReader for iPad . Open GoodReader on iPad and expand the section in the bottom right of the main screen which says " Connect to Servers " Tap " Add " Tap " Dropbox " Enter your details and click add Now tap the server you just added ( I called it " Dropbox " ) In the bottom right hand corner of the popover that just came up is a button saying upload . Tap it . Select the files you want to upload and tap " Upload " You will only need to do steps 5-7 the second time
Hold down the decrease screen brightness button at the top of the keyboard , it will get dimmer and dimmer , and at the end jump to a black screen ( the screen 's light will actually be off ) . To turn the screen back just press the increase screen brightness button .
The fan speedup happens because normally the fan speeds are controlled dynamically in response to CPU temperature by the firmware ( and as the CPUs are typically underutilized , there is rarely or never any need to run the fans at anything like the maximum speed ) . However , when the firmware is being updated , that dynamic temperature control is not possible - for safety the speed is just set to the maximum and left there until the update is complete . This is true for all systems ( even PCs - you will often notice a high fan speed for a moment when booting them as well ) So the real question is why is the difference between normal and maximum fan speeds is so great in the laptop ( MacBook ) systems as opposed to Mac desktop/tower/mini systems - and the answer to that is simply that the laptop hardware has much smaller clearances and therefore poor airflow without fans running . So for safety and increased CPU speeds on laptop systems , more powerful ( louder , faster ) fans are needed ( although they will eat your battery , as much or more than the increased CPU power consumption itself when the CPUs are fully utilized ) .
If Location Services are on for the Camera.app , EXIF data will include GPS data . If it is not , it will not for photos that are taken with Camera.app . Location data can be inserted on an app by app basis . I tested , for example , Camera.app , and Camera + . The former had Location Services disabled , and the latter was enabled . As expected , the former had no GPS data , while the latter did . Furthermore , photos that are downloaded from other services may or may not contain location data . For example , Facebook strips GPS data out of photos , while Photobucket does not . Any testing I have done has been with an iPhone 5 , and also an iPad mini .
I found <URL> in the community forum of Dropbox . A user sent a ticket to Dropbox asking about this and he posted the reply there . According to the reply , Dropbox needs to control the computer in order to keep our data safe . I 'm copying both the ticket and the answer over here . Thank you for writing in regarding the security of your account information . I can certainly understand you wanting to ensure the security of data you have entrusted to Dropbox . I will be happy to explain the measures taken by Dropbox to ensure the security of everyone 's account . Permission to control the computer is just another way of saying that there are certain system permissions Dropbox needs to function , and many of those permissions are to establish secure connections in order to protect the data contained within your Dropbox folders . Operating system permissions prevent files from being viewed or edited by unauthorized logins . Permissions can be set any number of ways and can be restored manually through a fairly simple process . Another possible cause of issues with Dropbox arise when conflicts exist between your local network sharing or folder redirection preferences setup in folders or files within your Dropbox . Similar effects can also happen when your Dropbox folder or its system files are located in a mounted network drive or a remote location ( like roaming profiles ) since this could cause Dropbox to not have constant access or permissions to operate in those locations . This is especially an issue if other people in the network could be accessing the same data . For these reasons , I 'd suggest that you ensure that your setup does not include any of the above scenarios . Additional permissions my be required when syncing mobile devices , particularly when photos or photo albums are involved . Since there is a great deal of personally identifying information stored in the metadata for a photo file ( yes , people can find you if they know how to decrypt this metadata ) , some of the additional permissions required for our Carousel app , for example , include : iOS - Contacts - Photos - Camera - Notifications - Background App Refresh - Use Cellular Data Android - In-app purchases - Device &amp; app history - Identity - Contacts/Calendar - Photos/Media/Files - Camera/Microphone - Wi-Fi connection information - Device ID &amp; call information Facebook does not offer a large amount of granularity or retroactive permissions control , so we need to request all the permissions we need or even may need in the future . I want to reiterate the point that all these steps are taken in order to prevent access to your data , not to facilitate access to your data . Dropbox takes great pride in being a company worth of the trust of our users , and we would never ask you to allow us access with the intent of violating that trust . I hope this helps clarify our account security measures regarding permissions . Thank you so much for using Dropbox , and please let me know if there 's anything else I can help with . Another user asked the following pertinent questions , but he never got any answers for those at least not in that thread . " ( ... ) why the need to give up access across the board as opposed to an as needed basis ? ( ... ) It 's hard for me to grasp why giving up OS level access to data that Dropbox does n't need for our use , makes our data safer ? ( ... ) Syncing data for example seems to work fine without the permissions checked . What am I missing ? I 'm not trying to be combative ; just hoping to get a better understanding . ( ... ) "
end question
start question
Is there a way to get the date of the first boot of an old mac ?
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
As of iTunes 10 ( or possibly 9 ) , the main library window has the option to do exactly what you want . You need to have it in Album List mode ( View menu - > as Album list ; or the 2nd option in the view controller : Then select the " Album by ... " pulldown and select Album by Artist/Year : You should be all set and have a nice organized list of albums sorted by artist and year .
Sounds like you have a problem . Have a look at this <URL> on what to do if this happens .
You can remove the country code from the URL , so it reads . That gives you a valid iTunes URL , that if opened in a browser ( that does n't auto-open iTunes ) , appears to be the same as if the link were a US link . However when any iTunes link is opened in iTunes itself , it will attempt to redirect to the version in the user 's local store . I.e. when I click on the link you posted , I get sent to the same item in the Canadian store . If the item is n't available in the Canadian store , I get a message like this : So , you should be safe using country-specific store links , and iTunes will handle the redirection as appropriate .
The restrictions only apply to the format . From the iBooks Author Publishing and Distribution FAQ of 2/7/12 : Are there any restrictions on the distribution of works produced with iBooks Author ? If a fee is charged for the work and it is in the . ibooks format , the work may only be sold through the iBookstore . If the work is in a different format , such as PDF or ePub , this restriction does not apply . Here 's the relevant part of the updated license agreement regarding the distribution of work : ( i ) if the work is provided for free [ ... ] , you may distribute it by any means ; ( ii ) if the work is provided for a fee [ ... ] and included files in the format [ ... ] , the work may only be distributed through Apple , [ ... ] , however , that this restriction will not apply to the content of the work when distributed in a form that does not include files in the format [ ... ] . You retain all your rights in the content of your works , and you may distribute such content by any means when it does not include files in the format [ ... ] .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
You ca n't -- sadly , Lion has no welcome video ! ( However , you can reset a machine to the first-boot state by simply booting from the recovery partition , erasing the drive , and reinstalling Lion . See <URL> for more instructions . )
Two easy ways , one CLI and the other with a GUI : With Terminal : Using FileMerge ( which comes with the <URL> ) :
The saved games are usually stored locally on the device , even if they are synchronised by iCloud . If you sign out of your iTunes account and sign in with his new one , there should n't be any loss of save game data at all . If , however , you want to wipe the iPad and set it up anew for him , you 'll need to backup the save information and restore it to the iPad after the clean install . To do this , I would recommend <URL> ( formerly Disk Aid ) . It 's a great app , available for both OS X and Windows , that lets you drill down into your apps to retrieve data . I would recommend doing a full backup in iTunes first , then use iMazing and save the " Documents " and " Library " folders from each app with a save game , so you have two backups just in case anything goes wrong . Then , once you 've restored the iPad to factory settings and reinstalled the games , just use iMazing again to copy the folders back in to their respective apps .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
Go to System Preferences , then Accessibility . There will be a column on the left for Zoom , which you can use a keyboard shortcut to activate .
As far as I know there is no way to email a link to something you have got to inside a native iOS app , in your case , a set of instructions . I believe however that you can email a set of instructions as a link from the google maps website , which you can access in safari . Hope this helps in some form .
Simple answer : Nope . Sorry to disappoint you . I also dislike this new picker . It is found all over the new UI and it is just terrible . Whoever decided this was good design missed the boat .
Unfortunately , there is no easy way to scroll to the end of a document other than by swiping repeatedly . It would be nice if Apple could add a specific gesture for this common action . If enough people request this feature at <URL> maybe they will add it into a future version of iOS .
<URL> lets you assign arbitrary tap/swipe/click gestures to arbitrary commands . It supports Lion .
You can pause the download while it 's in the " loading " stage by tapping the app icon ( tap again to resume ) , but I could n't find a way to actually cancel the download .
When viewing your calendars at iCloud.com , click the " shared calendar info " button next to the calendar of interest ( Button is white for unshared calendars , green for shared ) . In the new window , check the " email me when this calendar is changed " box . Now , whenever someone else updates the calendar you will get an email with the change .
This answer <URL> discusses a GitHub page <URL> which has assembled various versions of the AppleHardwareTest which you can download and install in a specific place on your harddisk . This allows you to run the test without a working CRROM . It worked for me on a Mid 2009 Macpook Pro .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
end question
start question
How do I silently start up my MacBook Air ?
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
Your computer has 2 cores , but 4 logical processors . What you are seeing is Intel 's <URL> . This technology puts multiple logical processors on a single core , so that each core can run multiple threads at once . The difference between this and multiple cores is that hyper-threading only duplicates the parts of the processor which control the current state , not the actual execution unit , but multiple cores duplicate everything . This means that your computer will run like it has four cores only if the threads on each core are using different parts of the execution unit , but if the exact same thing was running on both threads in a single core , it would n't be any faster than a two-core system without hyper-threading .
The only legal way to transfer the iLife applications from him to you would be if he had the original iLife installation DVD that used to ship with new Macs . Being that it 's an Air , and does n't have a DVD slot on it , it 's unlikely he still has that media . Unfortunately , you 're stuck with re-buying the iLife applications from the App Store using your own Apple ID . Using his App Store ID to put the software on your Mac and then switching the ID to your account would definitely be on the wrong side of Apple 's terms of service .
I am not aware of any manual that contains this information but here is a breakdown , since this is one of the big reasons I got a MacBook originally . The mini display port allows you to add an additional monitor to your MacBook . Support for this is built into the OS directly so you simply connect your external monitor using the correct MD/VGA or MD/HDMI or MD/DVI connector if the monitor does not have a display port and then you can configure how the displays work . This is done under the option in . From the screen shot below you can see I am running a second monitor on my MacBook Pro at the moment and I have set the second monitor to be to the left of the main one by simply dragging it 's rectangle to where I want it . You can also move the menu to a different screen by grabbing the white strip on the primary screen and dragging it to another screen you want it on . Each display can have it 's own separate resolution and even separate backgrounds . The relevant preference panes will automatically show a dialogue on each screen if it supports multiple displays , for example the will show on both screens . You can also choose whether you want to mirror the display or use it as a second screen . In mirror mode it simply mirrors everything on your main display .
That message means that there is a <URL> . This may happen if you connect new hardware to your computer . For possible reasons/fixes , see <URL> from the Apple website . Here is a section from the " Troubleshooting " section ... Was the computer starting up , shutting down , or performing a particular task when the recurring kernel panic happened ? Is the kernel panic intermittent , or does it happen every time you do a certain thing ? Does it occur only when a certain external device is connected , or a device is connected to a certain port ? Reading through that article should give you a general idea what is happening and possible ways to fix it .
Apple battery packs contain a set of 6 lithium Ion ( Li-Ion ) cells ( the metal covered envelopes ) , connectivity circuitry , and a small logic board . The main cause for battery cell swelling is what is known as thermal runaway . If a cell reaches a certain temperature then a chemical in the cell ( usually Cobalt Oxide for Lithium Ion batteries ) starts an unintended reaction which is exothermic in nature ( i.e. it creates heat ) . More heat raises the cell temparature further which causes more of the same chemical reaction This creates a runaway thermal overload which can end in one of two ways , the cell and therfore the battery pack , catches fire or the reaction fizzles out with the cell in a swollen state .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
Do n't stress about it so much . A Battery cycle refers to , more or less , one mostly full discharge and recharge . Typically , your battery should be rated for somewhere in the neighborhood of 1000 cycles . Eventually , the battery just wo n't hold a charge for as long as it did when it was new , but that 's why batteries are <URL> It 's a consumable part . If it dies prematurely ( which is the only thing you should really need to pay attention to cycles for ) , then it 's covered under your warranty . The ' Battery Cycles ' indicator is mainly there so that you can diagnose this . If , in a years time , your laptop 's battery only lasts half as long as it did when it was new , but you 've only used say , 400 cycles , well , that 's not performing up to spec , and it should be covered under your warranty . If you 've used 1500 cycles ( doing that in a year would be some pretty heavy and impressive use though , I 've got ta say ) , well , that 's to be expected . You used your battery a lot , and it wore out . Use your laptop as normal . Battery cycles are not a scarce and precious resource to be hoarded . 12 cycles in about a week and a half sounds pretty normal for a new laptop being used heavily to me . That 's about , what ? 6 hours/day unconnected to a power source ? If you 're using it on the go , that 's a perfectly reasonable amount of consumption .
A SuperDuper clone will be easy and will move your exact setup to the SSD . Put the new SSD in an external USB drive , format the SSD in Disk Utility , and clone the boot drive onto it . You do n't need to purchase SuperDuper as the Erase then Copy option works in the unregistered version . If your current boot drive data takes up more space than the SSD can hold then you need to delete files to slim it down or use a custom script in SuperDuper to exclude what you do n't want transferred . After the clone is successful boot the computer with option held down and make sure you can boot from it . If that works shut it down and swap the drives .
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
The two model numbers do n't seem to refer to the exact same configuration . Model MD232LL/A appears to reference to the base model ( as noted in Apple 's <URL> ) . The KB also notes : If you have a custom configuration the Model Number and Configuration in the table may not match . Please use the Model Identifier to confirm the model of MacBook Air for custom configurations . One example from <URL> - the specs include : 1.8 GHz Intel Core i5 Processor 256 GB Flash Storage 4 GB DDR3 RAM In the page from <URL> , the specs for model Z0ND0002Z include : Core i7 2 GHz 8 GB RAM 512 GB HDD It 's probably that the Z0ND0002Z model is used by retailers that provide more customization , since Apple uses the MD232LL/A model in its online KB . The excerpt from the KB also supports this conclusion .
Erasing a hard drive with Recovery HD ( or better - a flash drive ) will remove everything . You do n't need to do a NVRAM/SMC reset ( you can if you 'd like )
I had a white MacBook with roughly the same specifics ( except for a 160 GB HD ) and it would n't run so slowly . You can try the following software fixes : Go to System Preferences - > Users and disable unnecessary login items . These items are executed right after login . Go to and disable unnecessary startup items . These items are executed before login , just after boot . This is safe because essential system scripts are not placed there . Do n't touch anything in , instead . Use Activity Monitor and identify third-party daemons and processes that are running in background . Disable/uninstall unnecessary software . Open Console and look for unusual error messages . Clear and . Check and -- if needed -- repair your hard drive . You can do this booting with <URL> . Check and repair permissions with Disk Utility . Go to Dashboard and close unnecessary widgets . Some widgets run in background and use system resources . Only if you know what you 're doing , you could also check third-party kernel extensions . Hardware improvements : Buy a SSD . The spinning hard drive is the greatest bottleneck in modern laptops . If you 're running short of RAM , consider upgrading to 8 GB if your machine supports it ( 4 GB should be enough , though ) .
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
I 've needed to goto my Google Contacts and add the person to the built-in " My Contacts " group . I have n't found the " My Contacts " option in the preview of Google 's updated ( for 2015 ) Contacts preview . <URL>
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
Unfortunately the solution is not a great one . I had a similar problem on my MacBook a while ago , and the problem is actually due to file fragmentation , however no defrag tool could actually solve the problem . There are various solutions on Google indicating that a defrag does work , but I had no success with any of them . The problem is related to how the files are spread on the drive , and BootCamp requires a continues 10GB or more of free space on the drive to be able to create the required partition . The only way I got around the problem eventually was to format and reinstall the drive . My honest advice is to look at using something like <URL> which is free , and create a virtual image for Windows . Depending on what you need to do , you can get away with a relatively small image . Windows 7 can run quite happily with only a 1GB of RAM if you do n't need Aero . You can also look at paid for options like <URL> or <URL> Alternatively , you could look at installing Windows on a secondary drive via USB . The speed wo n't be great , but if again , depending on what you need it for , it might be a sufficient solution .
Internet Recovery If you <URL> , hold ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt + R on boot to begin . An image of OS X will be downloaded from the internet , and can be installed on the internal SSD normally . Once this is complete , you can restore your data from your external drive .
end question
start question
Can I replace optical drive with 2nd hard disk on MacBook ?
I have heard good things about the <URL> . It provides a mounting bracket for whatever hard drive or SSD you want to put in there . <URL> shows how to install it in a Mid-2010 MBP , which is close in design to the Unibody MacBook you have . Instructions according to the guy in the video : Remove the bottom panel Disconnect and remove the Wi-Fi/Bluetooth antenna . Disconnect optical drive and put the connector onto the Optibay Put your hard drive into the optibay Follow the steps in reverse to reassemble your computer . The dangerous parts are when you pop up the delicate connectors with , say , an iPod opening tool . So the Wi-Fi may not work afterwards , and you would be on your own since Apple does n't support modifications . But overall , it is n't so bad . It looks like an easy fix .
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
How about something simple in your crontab ? Which will , on a daily basis , append to the file drive_usage . log in your home directory with the date and time the job ran . Change @daily to @hourly or @weekly if you want different sampling rates . Sample output : If you want more information you might want to use something like fs_usage ( 1 ) which provides a truly astonishing amount of detail and must be run as root .
<URL> is not supported on Macbook Air that lack a true Thunderbolt port . The <URL> is purely a video out port , and can not be used for data transfer , despite the identical connector . The only supported option for transferring data between two Macbook Air , using a wired connection , using Migration Assistant , is through ethernet . Since both models of the Macbook Air do not have an ethernet port , you will need to purchase the <URL> for the older model Macbook Air which does not have a Thunderbolt port , and an <URL> for the newer model which supports Thunderbolt . If you do not want to purchase the adapters , you could migrate the data off the Air using file sharing or have the Mac opened by a service technician to remove the storage and assist with a converter or another Air to house the drive while it 's being accessed . By deleting all files that are non-essential you can speed up the time of transfer , but the USB to ethernet adapter is 100MB speed and likely the fastest you could transfer files . Wireless network would be slower in almost all cases than a direct connection and neither would be as fast as a target mode Firewire or Thunderbolt transfer sadly .
You can use the drivers CD present in the MacBook box at the time of acquisition . Following the steps you can instal an old version and then update to the last one . Otherwise there should be the possibility of start a recovery and directly download ( using a WiFi connection ) the last versione of the OS . An other option is to use Time Machine , if and only if , you have previously made a backup of the entire system before the swap of HD .
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
To show various drive icons on the desktop use the following commands in Terminal : External hard drives : Hard drives : Removable media : ( To complete all options available in the Finder preferences : mounted servers :) Afterwards restart the Finder : To disable showing the respective desktop icons simply replace true by false
Mail is caching your Gmail contents and this is normal for IMAP . See this <URL> and answers for possible solutions and implications regarding SpotLight search through emails : Disable all message caching Disable attachment caching
Yes - CCC copies by file and so will manage . This was my original setup and worked . It is now more complex as I now have more data on the source than can fit on the target , I manage this by choosing the files in CCC and deselecting ~ / Downloads / tmp etc. .
Password protecting a drive is n't really possible ( or even useful ) without also encrypting the contents of the drive . Honestly I 'm not even certain that 's something you can do since , what would the password be granting access to if the contents of the drive were n't encrypted ? So really the question you want to ask is : how do I encrypt an external hard drive ? With Lion you have <URL> to achieve this . FileVault makes it easy to encrypt your primary drive but you can also use it to encrypt the contents of remote storage . Just about any read/write storage media you attach via USB or FireWire can be FileVault 'd and secured . The caveat ? You can only use FileVault-protected drives on other Lion machines . <URL> . To summarize the steps : Mount the drive Open Disk Utility Select the drive and click on the Erase tab For the format pick either Mac OS Extended ( Journaled , Encrypted ) or Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) from the list of available options . In most cases you 'll want the former . Press Erase to start the format You 'll be asked to confirm your choice and enter a password for the volume Once the formatting is complete you 'll need to enter the password to be able to mount and view the contents of the drive If you 're not running Lion or you want something that 's portable across multiple OSes you can look at <URL> . It 's free software for encrypting file systems , much like FileVault , but it 's available for Windows , OS X ( both Snow Leopard and Lion ) and Linux so you can access the encrypted remote media from just about any machine .
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
Got a reply from the support . What I asked is not possible -- but you could use two <URL> ( in my case I could n't do that though ) . Our licensing agreement with Apple does n't permit transmitting the operating system via the internet . As there are other methods to run the application ( as outlined previously [ <URL> ] ) most folks can run the software using the downloaded application . Also , DiskWarrior is the type of utility to prevent these problems - regular maintenance can help prevent the emergency situation .
Yes . I swap out drives all the time ... it 's basically transparent on a Mac . I 've even booted my MacBook Pro 's drive on my wife 's MacBook Pro and vice versa . It takes a minute longer to boot as it reconfigures itself but once it starts you ca n't even tell the difference .
If you 're talking about an aluminum iMac , getting to the HDD involves removing the built in display monitor to be able to get behind it . YouTube seems to have several video walk-throughs that show the process ( including <URL> ) . Additionally , a quick search turned up <URL> . The process seems too complex to provide here . If you 're comfortable with this level of complexity in hardware repair , then the video or text walk throughs should help you . I suspect , all things considered , if you 're not confident enough to perform the upgrade yourself just by looking at videos of others who have done it , then this probably falls into the class of " take your iMac to your local Mac service centre and get them to do it " : yes , it will cost you money , but they can also guarantee their workmanship ...
I will not recommend you do this since it will degrade your wireless performance . The WiFi and bluetooth antennas are located just off the DVD slot to allow more signal to come out . Remember the MBP is a metal cage and wireless signals need a way to come out .
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
It has two and yes , you can make the controller that connects to the SuperDrive spot the primary controller and run your MacBook Pro exclusively off a drive attached to this controller . I 'm writing this from a MacBook Pro that has an SSD installed into the SuperDrive spot using an OWC DataDoubler bracket . This is the primary drive in my machine and the mechanical drive has come and gone from the machine without any issues . The machine still booted , ran from my SSD in the SuperDrive spot .
I have n't seen fixed disk support in Parallels Desktop . All my virtual machines has about 64Gb HDD , but space occupied is about 8-10 Gb . I have configuration " Automatically compress virtual disks " on ( as default value ) .
No RAM or processor replacement in the Mac Mini 2014 An <URL> teardown reveals this . And @Pol posted a link to <URL> were you can read about the soldered RAM . The processor and the RAM is soldered onto the motherboard . Even in a clean room , a soldering iron and a steady hand , it would be nearly impossible . You are not allowed to do this on your own , your warranty will expire on this one . You can replace your RAM yourself , Apple has even provided a guide on how to do it on similar hardware ( 2012 model ) . Here you can find the guide : <URL> . No problems with your warranty .
end question
start question
Does iPad mini gets scratched easily without a case ?
I believe white one is more succeptible than black one . As far as the case , I picked up a clear case on ebay ( shipped from Jersey ) to go with my smart cover for $ 3.98 and it is pretty thin , maybe adds 2mm to the overall thickness . Just something to look at .
Sadly , no . Your money or your time surely will soon be spent .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
Yes . With many methods of voice dictation , what happens is that your voice is recorded and digitized , and your speech is broken up into phrases which are uploaded over the Internet to a powerful computer server which translates your speech into text and then transmits the text back to your device . However , there is a long history of programs for Mac and PC which perform voice dictation and transcription entirely on your Mac or PC without using an Internet connection . I do n't know of any apps for iOS that perform voice transcription entirely on the device without using a connection to a server on the Internet .
Automator on Mac is certainly one of the most underused apps . Using it does n't require a long time of learning . All you have to do is to understand the way it works . You 'll find on this tutorial the answers to your questions : <URL> By the way , in case you 'd like to get the most out of your Mac , check this out also : <URL> Let me know if you managed to create your firt Automator workflow ;)
a ) figure out how much space Photostream is occupying on the device Go to settings General - > Usage wait until the top is done and then click on Photos and Camera The next page under Photo and Camera has the space used for Camera Roll , Photo Library , and the Photo Stream . b ) reduce space . After taking photos you can edit and crop , delete the ones that you do not want . It saves the last 1000 photos for 30 days so if you take a lot of photos , copy them when you can . Photo stream is there for you to easily sync your photos from one device to all . After you have the photo , copy it to your mac and remove them from your photo stream . After 30 days or over 1000 photos you might start to lose photos .
Unfortunately , no . Thunderbolt displays will only work with a Thunderbolt port on your machine - not with a Mini Display Port ...
You can set the release date through <URL> . The <URL> in the iOS Developer Documentation has a page titled Managing Your App in iTunes Connect , where the section <URL> states : Use iTunes Connect to set a date when the app is available on the store . For example , you can choose a date that immediately releases the app to the store after it 's approved , or you can set a later date . Using a later availability date allows you to arrange other marketing activities around the launch of your app . Sign in to <URL> . Select Manage Your Apps . Select your app in the Recent Activity section . Click Rights and Pricing . Choose a date from the Availability Date pop-up menus . Optionally , edit the other fields in this form . Click Save . Changes you make to Rights and Pricing go live immediately ( expect 24 hours for a full refresh of the changes on the store ) . Read the <URL> for more information on managing your app on the App Store .
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
I think you are going to need an iTunes account , but you can get around the need of a credit card . You can follow Apple 's support documentation on how to setup an iTunes account without a credit card . You can use a Mac to make a free account that works on iOS and iOS to make a free account that works on Mac . Once your iTunes store account is set up once , you might want to avoid creating a second one since they can not be merged later . <URL>
As asked and answered on <URL> , there 's an easier way to do this that does n't involve making a new file system in a disk image file : Move your existing file aside , commit that move , then move it back using the case you 'd like it to maintain and commit . Done . Example :
I have both and can confirm that the iPad Mini 4 does not have the iPhone 6S TouchID Sensor . Side by side the iPad feels more like the iPhone 6 where you have to pause on the button to authenticate . Quite disappointing .
I use <URL> to connect over SSH to my server . It 's a paid app , but I never had an issue with it , it 's really reliable . If your connection is good enough you wo n't appreciate any lag . Vim works great with it . Ca n't tell you about external keyboards .
I 'd use evasi0n - it is fully compatible with the iOS 6 and hence the iPad Mini . The process if fully automatic . More about how to jailbreak here : <URL>
I believe white one is more succeptible than black one . As far as the case , I picked up a clear case on ebay ( shipped from Jersey ) to go with my smart cover for $ 3.98 and it is pretty thin , maybe adds 2mm to the overall thickness . Just something to look at .
I suggest taking a backup and going to an Apple Store soon . I had two situations like this with funny creeking noises , the hard drive eventually slowed down and stopped working - no bad sectors or anything . It just eventually stopped . It was not an Apple drive , but I am sure it 's worth asking . Worst case scenario you will have to come back when drive eventually dies .
No ( for iOS 6 and earlier ) - erasing an iOS device means you will never hear from it again . No messages , no tracking , no find my device since at that point . Even if " your device " checks back in with Apple , it is no longer associated with your account . This is covered by Apple here in this article : <URL> After you erase all the information on an iOS device , you wo n't be able to use Find My iPhone to locate it or send it a message . Someone can enter a new ( or your account ) back into that device and only then will it resume checking in with the new account/password combination to be tracked . The only way you might get a notification is if you first send the locate message and then the erase message and both remain queued in the proper order . Since the device was offline when you sent the two commands ( otherwise you would have located the device if it were online ) , the device could later check in and it is conceivable you will get the locate notification delivered with enough time to respond before the erase command gets sent and acted upon . Apple changed this in iOS 7 where activation lock and an enhanced lost mode can erase the device except for the tracking and registration . This brings the erase benefits without losing control of the device .
AutoCorrect will automatically replace the word unless you cancel it manually by tapping it . ( Note the small sign in the suggestion bubble indicating that tapping it will cancel the suggestion . ) So , as soon as an AutoCorrect suggestion appears that you want to use , just hit Space ( or insert a punctuation mark ) and continue typing .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
end question
start question
What are the consequences of jailbreaking an iOS device as a Developer ?
Consequences : increased personal responsibility to not install software or firmware that might prevent restoration to a supported configuration . increased personal responsibility for device instability or security vulnerabilities less software support from the vendor ( may be moot if you run beta software as there is less support for that as well ) potential delay if you ask for a hardware repair ( either within or without the warranty period ) if you do something that prevents a factory restore I suppose you might be out of luck , but I consider that further action ( or error ) past a jailbreak . reduced confidence that the app will be of use in debugging issues having to determine if an issue is in all devices or just in jailbroken devices ( such as frequent and intermittent issues with push notification service ) . I have had hardware exchanged by Apple when running beta software - the technician was able to tell it was clearly a hardware error and I was open with her when I presented the device for service . I was n't made to feel like I had done anything wrong . You could be denied service if you 're running software not designed by the manufacturer , I think a little common sense will let you know if it 's worth the risk . I see jailbreaking as taking down a guardrail . If you crash and the " authorities " rule you would have been safe had you left up the protection , you 've got less grounds to stand on . From the comments on another answer - a several people disagree with this ( and that 's better than fine , many viewpoints is a strength here ) On the plus side , if you know what you are doing , you might be able to patch known vulnerabilities better than or faster than Apple does . You might also gain knowledge you would not in the process of jailbreaking and dealing with the device while the guardrail is down . But to gloss over the difference between hardware support and software support or just stating " jailbreak = bad " over simplifies a complex issue in my eyes .
Yes , if you have a paid developer account you can create signed IPAs which can be installed on the device remotely , or you can use TestFlight . If you do n't have a paid developer account but your device is jailbroken you can install unsigned IPAs . Note that this does n't include debugging which ca n't be done remotely .
This is a <URL> . Cellular downloads are limited to a file size of 20 MB or smaller . See comment below , iOS 5.1 has increased this limit to 50 MB .
The only exposed API to use the audio hardware under iOS is the RemoteIO Audio Unit API . The driver for the audio input/output hardware does not seem to be exposed via a * nix device on Mac OS X , or in its iDevice derivatives .
This can be easily calculated with the available information . Since screen dimensions are always specified as the diagonal measurement , the rectangle can be divided into two equal right-angled triangles , with the hypotenuse being the diagonal measurement and the aspect ratio of the display providing inputs for the calculation of the height and width . iPhone 4S Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 3:2 and can be calculated from the resolution - 960 x 640 pixels ; 960/640 = 1.5 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 74.05 mm by 49.37 mm . iPhone 5s Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 16:9 and can be calculated from the resolution - 1136 x 640 pixels ; 1136/640 = 1.775 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 87.12 mm by 49.08 mm .
There is a change log available , you can find it <URL> . This is what it says about siri : Siri Manually control when Siri listens by holding down the home button while you speak and releasing it when you 're done as an alternative to letting Siri automatically notice when you stop talking New , more natural sounding male and female voices for Mandarin Chinese , UK English , Australian English , and Japanese And the change log you mentioned is n't updated because there was no need for it , I verified on my iPhone running iOS 7.1 and there are no new languages in addition to the list you posted . On the developer portal there is another change log <URL> that shows all changes in different versions . It is a lot more technical than the " consumer log " .
Just to add to the good data already available , <URL> from a free , " who buys the next round " app , which may be a bit more representative than Instapaper : While not quite as high as the percentage of Instapaper users , more than 95 % on iOS 4 suggests you wo n't be missing out on a big number of users .
Scroll to the bottom of the playlist . There is a " Download All " button with the cloud download icon . Tap and wait . Unfortunately , I do n't believe there is a way to scroll to the bottom in one gesture , so if the playlist is long , you 'll have to repeatedly swipe until you reach the bottom .
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
As far as I can tell from <URL> you do n't get paid for a month after you hit the threshold for payment of $ 150 . Hope this helps !
<URL> MenuMeters is a free application that displays CPU usage , memory usage , network up/down , and disk write/read .
The absolute worst case scenario is you are forced to revert back to a non-jailbroken device and may lose content if you did not make the necessary backups . That is bar-none the worst case scenario . It is also of note that Apple will turn you away should you bring in a device that is jailbroken . They have a firm stance against the practice and state that it will void your warranty . Of course reinstalling iOS and removing the jailbreak corrects this matter . Additionally , upgrading to future iOS versions will remove the jailbreak ( OTA updates in iOS 5 can not be performed ) . You can not " brick " your device , rendering it inoperable by using any jailbreak utilities . Repeat , you can not " brick " your device anymore than you can render a Mac inoperable by messing with OS X . A simple restore returns the device back to its original state . The ill-gotten rumor likely started due to the protection schemas in place that safe guard the mobile device from tampering ( i.e. , breaking Apple 's closed system ) . Apple has set up a gauntlet a jailbreaker must bypass in order to open iOS . During those stages , problems may occur , leaving the phone in a state of " flux . " This occurs when the device is left without a working operating system . In this state , it will not graciously look to iTunes for a fix . But rather sit in this state of limbo and require additional software to " bring it back to life . " It is , however , always possible to restore it and any coming forward to claim otherwise are only bringing to light their own ignorance and ineptitude at correcting the matter . I think an apt analogy would be to look at someone trying to jump start a car . It 's possible to boost any car , but some may reverse the cables , or fail to clamp the negative to a proper ground . Sparks fly and the ECU shorts . Surely if the person knew what they were doing , they would have jump started the car without issue . Jailbreaking itself does not pose an inherent risk . There have been cases where a jailbreak actually allowed the patching of a known security risk ( <URL> and then subsequently provided means to repair it well before Apple stepped in correct the matter upstream ) . These cases , are however , rare . Most of the time , a jailbreak relies on similar exploits to deliver itself ( <URL> ) . So while the jailbreak is safe , it may force a user to remain on a compromised version of iOS and unlike the initial PDF exploit that made jailbreakme.com possible , may not have the means to patch it . The biggest threat is the expansion of capabilities made famous through Cydia . The most prolific is the installation of SSH ( a secure file transfer protocol ) without changing the two accounts on the device ( root and mobile ) . They both share the same password ( alpine ) and without changing them , a mischievous hacker only needs to get the device 's respective IP address . After which , they will have root access ( full control ) . This , of course , is easy enough to overcome and will likely only affect the most ignorance of user bases . Surely you can not claim a house is unsafe because the residents refuse to lock their door ! Lastly , the installation of apps through untrusted Cydia repositories may also be a cause for concern . Jailbreaking a device removes Apple 's signature checks , so the device is only too happy to run most code thrown at it . While Apple stringently approves what code is given the authority to run on your device ( and sandboxes all apps for that matter , greatly restricting their privileges ) those checks are removed after the device is jailbroken . Moreover , those apps are no longer sandboxed like the ones found on Apple 's App Store . It 's possible that a user may come across malicious code , but no such cases have been made public . The jailbreaking community is n't bent on malicious intent , but rather freedom of choice . In that respect , they act as paladins , and anyone seeking to exploit their work would be brought to light before long . The troubles affecting jailbreaking essential revolve around ignorance and naivety . For an experienced and intelligent user , they bring no more risk to one 's security than a " locked " device . And in some cases , may provide the ability to tighten 's one 's security and privacy ( typically made possible by developers that use Cydia to distribute their wares ) . Note : Cydia itself is a reputable " store . " The programs found within it 's walls are all safe and typically carry some level of professionalism . The problems arise when users register outside repositories ( or repos ) that carry untested , pirated , or questionable software . Jailbreaking also does not mean iOS is free to run " cracked " software found legitimately in the App Store . Those security measures remain intact even on a jailbroken device and must be circumvented separately , outside of the actual jailbreak . Many are confused by this duality and assume a jailbroken device can natively install pirated apps . That is not the case .
This appears to be fixed in iOS7 - I set the DHCP Gateway to 0.0.0.0 and the iPad connects with a tickbox rather than leaving the spinning circle .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
No versions of OS X are affected ( nor is iOS affected ) . Only installing a third party app or modification would result in a Mac or OS X program having that vulnerability / bug in OpenSSL version 1.0.x Apple deprecated OpenSSL on OS X in December of 2012 if not earlier . No version of OpenSSL that is vulnerable to <URL> ( a.k.a the <URL> ) Apple provides several alternate application interfaces that provide SSL to Mac developers and has this to say about OpenSSL : OpenSSL does not provide a stable API from version to version . For this reason , although OS X provides OpenSSL libraries , the OpenSSL libraries in OS X are deprecated , and OpenSSL has never been provided as part of iOS . Use of the OS X OpenSSL libraries by apps is strongly discouraged . Specifically , the latest <URL> is OpenSSL 0.9.8 y 5 Feb 2013 which does not appear to have the bug from newer versions of OpenSSL back ported to the code for Apple 's version of the library . The PDF of this documentation has some clearly written advice for developers and some sections that 's useful for professionals or the security minded user as well . <URL> and <URL> Considering this , the only remaining issue would be additional software that were built against OpenSSL , e.g. several in Homebrew ( followed by ) or MacPorts ( followed by ) to update to the patched 1.x version of openSSL . Also , you could use mdfind/mdls to check on files named openssl in case you have other applications that bundle that library as Apple recommends rather than depending on the " safe " version Apple still ships with OS X.
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
Per <URL> , AirPlay makes use of a number of ports : ╔ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╗ ║ Port ║ TCP/UDP ║ Name ║ ╠ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╣ ║ 80 ║ TCP ║ Hypertext Transfer Protocol ( HTTP ) ║ ║ 443 ║ TCP ║ Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL , or " HTTPS " ) ║ ║ 554 ║ TCP/UDP ║ Real Time Streaming Protocol ( RTSP ) ║ ║ 3689 ║ TCP ║ Digital Audio Access Protocol ( DAAP ) ║ ║ 5353 ║ TCP ║ Multicast DNS ( MDNS ) ║ ╚ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╝
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
The iPhone is not completely depleted when the battery " dies . " If you 'll notice , when you try to turn it on when the battery is dead , the screen will come on briefly to tell you the battery is dead -- i.e. , there is still some energy left in the battery . The clock continues to run off of the battery , and takes such a small amount of energy that Apple decided to keep the clock going . Eventually , the battery will completely die ( probably after many days or weeks ) , and the clock will eventually stop keeping time . As Ian C. mentioned , the clock will synchronize when the phone does get plugged in and turned on again , if a network is available .
end question
start question
Multiple Wi-Fi APs : Use same or different SSID ?
I 've changed the setup to use the same SSID for all APs and I observe much faster handover times , at least on my iOS devices . Have n't done yet any tests with Macs though . So far I have n't reduced power levels as @ScunnerDarkly suggested because I 'm satisfied with the results right now .
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
In a nutshell : No , you ca n't . A backup is not a synchronisation solution so there is always a 1:1 relationship between your main drive ( s ) and your backup . You can use Time Machine to backup multiple computers to the same network drive , but the backups will always end up as separate bundles . To transfer applications/data from one Mac to another once , have a look at Migration Assistant ( ) . To share data with ongoing updates from several machines , consider defining remote access/folder sharing on a master drive or look into .
<URL> iOS ( Push ) Email using the IMAP protocol Push is not default . You have to set it up <URL> . bi-directional contacts sync ( Exchange supported ) If you do not sync contacts using the exchange protocol , you only sync via iTunes . bi-directional calendars sync I do n't have good experiences with the bi-directional sync using the iOS calendar app . Luckily , there are plenty of third-party apps available which offer a tight integration of Google Calender . <URL> has been quite an enhancement to my Google experience . OSX iCal , Address Book and Mail allow to integrate sync with Google 's services in Preferences & #x 2192 ; Accounts . Google Services on other platforms Google 's Services are more widely available than anything else I know . It allows to keep contacts/calendars/email in sync on OSX , iOS , Android and Linux . In Ubuntu I use Google 's Services in Thunderbird and Google Calendar/Contacts extensions .
You ca n't really do this in iMovie as it is limited to 2 video tracks . You can do it in Final Cut or Premiere Pro if you 're willing to spend the money , or HitFilm Express if you want do n't want to spend a penny .
Developers access your Twitter accounts through the <URL> . When an app requests access to your accounts , it uses the method . ( The only supported account type is currently . ) This grants access to all accounts of that type . Therefore , unfortunately , apps ca n't request access to only a single account -- you have to give access to all of your Twitter accounts .
No - the timing of the beaconing signals and whichever is the strongest SSID in the limited window it looks gets chosen . It 's a flip of the coin most times . The N does win out more than the G - but it 's not a surefire thing by any stretch .
Yes , iOS multitouch will track 11 independent touch positions in the current SDK ( iOS 7 ) . However , the springboard app wo n't launch but one app at a time , so the answer is no to having more than one app run due to precise multitouch tapping the home screen .
In iOS 4.3 there will be Personal Hotspot integrated in firmware . Just wait
No , there is no way to do this . Also , wifi is only searched for when you actually go to use your phone . It wo n't search for wifi networks constantly while the phone is in your pocket . Your iPhone is very good at managing its own battery usage . Checking what SSIDs exist is very battery efficient . Lastly , you can turn off that annoying prompt that comes up whenever networks are discovered . It 'll still automatically connect to wifi networks that you trust , but that dialog will never appear .
<URL> may do the trick . Designed to extend the port in bulky cases , it features a MicroUSB port on the side to charge with older accessories that do n't support charging . MicroUSB should also support an iPad charge , though it may be very slow . See <URL> for someone saying they can charge their iPad with a MicroUSB adapter ( admittedly officially supplied by Apple , but the point is the protocol and cable can handle it ) . Worst case it will say " not charging " and will charge in sleep , and when not charging the drain will at least be significantly slowed . You will probably need to plug the microUSB adapter into a high power USB port -- ideally the iPad 10W charger itself . I ca n't guarantee this would work but , were I in your situation , I 'd give it a shot and let us know . You could always return the adapter if it did n't suit your needs . Good luck !
The best solution I use for adding the SSID to the menu bar is turning off Apple 's menu item and using WiFi Signal app from Adrian Granados : <URL> <URL> It 's much fuller featured than just displaying the SSID , but it does that job nicely . I am a very satisfied customer of all his Mac apps as they are powerful , well engineered and updated regularly .
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
Using the built-in tool " Automator " , you can define a workflow to batch rename files . To do that , you will have to : Open Automator find it using Spotlight or in / Applications Create a new Workflow Type get into the search field Scroll to the bottom of the list of items and drag Get Specified Item from the Files &amp; Folders actions list on the left panel and drop it into the right panel Click the Add button and find your files Add the Sort Finder Items action followed by Rename Finder Items It the " Rename Finder Items " panel , select " Make Sequential " and " Add number to " Picture Hit the play button and you should be done Have a look <URL> or <URL> for an example tutorials on your specific renaming task at hand . An excellent overview of what Automator does and how powerful ( and simple ) it can be as a personal assistant - see the web page <URL>
In order for a Mac to create a local Wi-Fi network , it needs to have a wired Internet source . So what you need to do is : Connect an Ethernet cable from the router ( the wired source ) to a Mac . On that Mac , choose System Preferences > Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose Ethernet from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . Select AirPort in the " To computers using " list , then click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Connect the other computers to the new Wi-Fi network you just created . If needed , there are more details on this Apple help page : <URL> .
Without special software or hardware to do so , multiple connections are not combined for increased throughput , knowing as bonding . The connections are utilized in the order shown in System Preferences > Network ( screenshot below ) . You can change the order by clicking the gear icon > Set Service Order . There is no harm in letting the computer connect to the router , other than possibly a slight impact on load in the router - but assuming the connection is not being actively utilized , impact should be slight to none . The only way I am aware of to prevent the Mac from connecting to the router is to not tell it the password or turn Wi-Fi off .
Not sure if this is the best method , but there 's at least one way to set a keyword to trigger stuff in spotlight , and that is by making an application with Automator . Personally I use <URL> for this type of stuff , but it 's not overly difficult to do this with Automator . Open It should by default ask you what type of file to make , but if it does n't ⌘ + N Choose a type for your document : Application Start writing : shell Press ↵ Enter twice It should now look something like this <URL> Replace the text with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Name it : Duplicate ( ⌘ + ⇧ + S ) Rename to : In the text , replace the with : Save ( ⌘ + S ) Now if you open spotlight and write , you should see something like this : <URL> If you want to change the icons , here 's an article explaining how in detail : <URL> Short version : Open the desired image in ( png works the best ) Select all ( ⌘ + A ) Copy ( ⌘ + C ) Select the in finder Go to file info : ( ⌘ + i ) Click the current icon on the top left Paste ( ⌘ + V ) After changing the icons , you might not see them change immediately . You can force spotlight to see the new icons faster by trashing the apps and then undoing it ( taking files off the trast ) . <URL> Links to the icons I used : <URL> <URL>
You can toggle directly by swiping up from the very bottom of the screen ... ... from the lock screen , home screen or in most apps [ in some apps it 's difficult to get the swipe to be recognised if the app uses the same part of the screen for a function . ]
Lion has many more voices , including Czech ( Zuzana ) and Slovak voice ( Laura ) !
If I 'm reading your description correctly , then the replacement cord has a higher rating ( 60W ) than the 45W that is drawn by the 2011 Macbook Air . This is fine because all it means is that the cord has a thicker gauge to handle a higher wattage ( than what you are are actually using ) . The replacement cord would not affect the voltage , so your adapter would still be delivering what it is specified for , namely the 14.5 V.
end question
start question
Is there any keyboard shortcut for entering El Capitan 's split view ?
BetterTouchTool ( starting with version 1.22 , currently available as alpha version ) let 's you assign gestures or keyboard shortcuts to trigger the native split screen .
IDLE > Preferences ( cmd + , ) > Keys > goto-line > Get New Keys for Selection
This is for sure an iPad Air 2 , correct ? It should have TouchID ( a fingerprint sensor ) on the front . To verify the model , go to the settings app , General , About : Model MH2P2LL/A is an iPad Air 2 Other ways to identify your iPad are at <URL>
You could use the file transfer application <URL> to connect to the Linux server , using your ssh credentials , and then thanks to <URL> you can preview your images and many other file types without explicitly copying them , altough you are in effect downloading the data to have the preview .
To switch quickly to the Address Bar use : Mac/OS X : ⌘ + L Win/Linux : Ctrl + L
According to the apple website , there is no hide shortcut . Sorry . <URL> Sorry .
Select the folder you want ( or command + A to select all ) and then press : Command + right arrow And the left arrow undoes what the right arrow did , should you want to close things back up again .
You can by using an Administrator account and renaming the apps in Finder . LaunchPad will show the changed name accordingly . There also is <URL> , which seems to make renaming items and other operations in LaunchPad possible . Unfortunately , it seems to be discontinued , so try it at your own risk . Finally , if you are comfortable with SQLite databases and SQL , you could manually make the necessary changes in <URL> . I 'd advise you to first back up your database before you start tinkering with it . You can use the built-in command-line client to manipulate this database . You 'll want to find the appropriate records in the table , and update their field .
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
Depending on the App on the Phone , there may be an export option for streamed files . An alternative might be to extract the desired file ( s ) from the iPhone backup on your computer . Once you have the ( large ) stream file on your Mac ( ? ) , you can extract the desired tracks from the file . For lossless MP3 editing you might want to try Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> or Macsome <URL> ( free ) .
You can do this with <URL> using a macro such as this :
Here is the code : Just replace the with the index of your script in the menu . ( FYI : 1 is , 8 is
I 've found that if head to mission control and uncheck ' displays have different spaces ' , then logout/login you should be sweet . Worked for me anyways .
You can find the name of every shortcut in an app by using a free app called <URL> .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
Thanks to the answers to this question and related questions on this site , I found and wound up trying three different offline map apps which also support offline search . All three offer the basic features of downloading maps for a certain region , viewing your current location and searching for nearby street names and points of interest . In addition , OffMaps 2 and City Maps 2Go also feature downloadable Wikipedia articles for the points of interest on each map . Offmaps 2 can also show a public transport network overlay on top of the regular map . <URL> : $ 3.99 for the app , no extra charges per map . <URL> : $ 0.79 for the app , includes 2 free maps ; $ 0.79 per pack of 3 extra maps or $ 4.99 for unlimited maps . Each map includes Wikipedia articles ( optional download ) and a public transport overlay . <URL> : $ 1.59 for the app , no extra charges per map . Enabling the Wikipedia articles download option is an additional one-time $ 2.39 charge . ( * ) Based upon first impressions , the one I would recommend is City Maps 2Go . The public transport overlay of OffMaps 2 is an interesting additional feature , but I prefer City Maps 2Go 's cleaner interface . I also already experienced several app crashes with OffMaps 2 . MapsWithMe Pro seems comparatively expensive . ( * ) The app appears to be designed to charge a separate fee for enabling this option for each map , but currently has an " Introduction offer : buy ' Wiki Plus ' now and you will get lifetime , global , unlimited download rights . "
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
According to Apple 's <URL> : Page Up key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Up Arrow key . Page Down key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Down Arrow key .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
end question
start question
Are all four SO-DIMM slots user-accessible in the 27 inch iMac ( Late 2012 ) ?
The <URL> page on the Apple site states : 8GB ( two 4GB ) of 1600MHz DDR3 memory ; four user-accessible SO-DIMM slots Configurable to 16GB or 32GB . so yes , all four slots are user accessible .
No , the 2012 and early-2013 Retina MBP SSD 's are not PCIe-based , so you could not install an SSD from a late-2013 Retina MBP .
The only way I know how is to modify the System 's " User Template " . Here 's the steps I used to test on Lion . Use a current account to specify the desktop wallpaper you want . ( If you use " Solid Colors " there 's a button in the lower right to pick a custom color . Copy the current account 's com.apple.desktop.plist file to the user template :
Problem resolved : ( You will need another mac with a Thunderbolt port to make this work . We 'll call the problematic one A and the other one B ) Connect a Thunderbolt cable between the old machine ( A ) to another one ( B ) . Start A in target mode ( Press T on boot ) . You 'll now see A 's drive as an external drive on B 's desktop . Go to ' Startup Disk ' in ' System Preferences ' . Pick A 's drive as your boot disk . Reboot . If everything 's working , you should see A 's Finder etc. on B 's display . Connect Time Machine to B. Start it . Click ' Options ... ' and exclude B 's drive from the backup . Run another time machine backup on the HD . I eventually went out and got a new MBP ( which I was planning to do anyway ) and migrated directly from the time machine latest backup .
It can be done , but I 'm not sure which SKUs it applies to , or that it 's particularly advisable . Both the 2.9 GHz and the 3.1 GHz 21.5 ″ iMacs have space for a second drive bay , and there 's an <URL> explaining how to install a second drive . ( iFixit usually tear down new hardware within a day or so of release , and have a lot of tutorials for things like hardware upgrades and repairs ) . Currently <URL> does n't have such a tutorial . However , there 's a <URL> where people are discussing associated teardowns and the possibility of such an upgrade . The poster ifixit611 writes : The 27 ″ iMac holds one 3.5 ″ drive ( unlike the 21 ″ , which uses a 2.5 ″ drive ) , and one " blade " SSD like the new MacBook Pros use . Unlike the new 21 ″ iMac , you can upgrade the RAM on the 27 ″ w/o cutting the machine open ( there 's an access hatch on the back ) . Replacing the disk requires cutting open the display and removing the left speaker . You 'll need a proper mounting bracket ( e.g. , an Icy Dock ) to mount a 2.5 ″ SSD in place of the 3.5 ″ drive . Adding/replacing the blade SSD requires pulling out the main logic board . They conclude that they wo n't be performing the upgrade before iFixit or OWC provide a proper " kit " . So it sounds like , in theory , you could perform this upgrade on a 27 ″ iMac , and the instructions from iFixit for upgrading the 21 ″ would probably be helpful in this regard . That said , hardware is not my area of expertise and I generally get twitchy about opening up iMacs . Do at your own risk , etc. .
iPhoto supports sharing of albums ( including synchronising of comments , and name/face tagging ) with Facebook . This allows you to select a group of photos , and either put them into a Facebook album or post direct to a wall . If you synchronise with a Facebook album , then iPhoto will perform a 2 way sync and pull the new pictures down locally for offline storage . If you are worried about Privacy , you can always create an account just for this and really lock it down . If even works on photos of girls with seemingly impossible sized teeth : Other than Facebook , sharing options are more limited . Apple used to offer the MobileMe gallery service , but that is now not open to new customers and will be turned off in the coming months . There is limited support for Flickr ( believe it was better in '09 than in ' 11 , which is weird ) , but to get anything close to the Facebook levels of deep integration you will have to get happy with some scripting and automation to ( for example ) run a script after each import to automatically copy the contents of the last import to Flickr etc. . <URL> , but non of them are as self-contained as Facebook sync , and require other tools and software to create a more complicated workflow , but it is possible and if you are a Flickr fan the extra effort may make it worthwhile As a final option , you can still happily use your Picassa Web Albums , and just not use the local application , <URL> has an accepted answer on syncing iPhoto to Picassa .
Launch System Preferences ... from the Apple menu . Click on Speech . The left tab is marked Speech Recognition . Set the Microphone from the default " Internal microphone " to " Line In " . Click on the Calibrate button . Then speak the phrases on the left e.g. " What Time Is It ? " If your Mac detects your line-in , you 'll see the blue-green-red indicator respond to the volume of your voice from the line-in . Have fun , and do n't forget to mark the question as answered when you 're done . Cheers .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
If you 're talking about an aluminum iMac , getting to the HDD involves removing the built in display monitor to be able to get behind it . YouTube seems to have several video walk-throughs that show the process ( including <URL> ) . Additionally , a quick search turned up <URL> . The process seems too complex to provide here . If you 're comfortable with this level of complexity in hardware repair , then the video or text walk throughs should help you . I suspect , all things considered , if you 're not confident enough to perform the upgrade yourself just by looking at videos of others who have done it , then this probably falls into the class of " take your iMac to your local Mac service centre and get them to do it " : yes , it will cost you money , but they can also guarantee their workmanship ...
The best way to do this is with one of the more obscure settings in BetterTouchTool It works like this : A three fingered right swipe brings up the application switcher . Lift one finger to covert it into a two finger swipe and slide to whichever application you want . It becomes an incredible natural and fluid gesture The beauty of the gesture is that it works anywhere on the screen and you do n't have to position the mouse over the icons . In BTT assign the three finger swipe right to the application switcher . In BTT Action Settings - > Stuff ( App Switcher ) - > Use special application switcher This answers the problem that bisko and senseful had above and avoids the last click or the necessity to be over the icon . Single best gesture in my ' gesture vocabulary ' and I have gestures for everything !
There are lots of little application launcher utilities available , to name two <URL> and the venerable <URL> . Personally , I prefer keyboard-based launchers like <URL> or <URL> . OS X Lion will have feature called <URL> which looks like it will be a good replacement to the dock for launching applications . Organizing Apps in the Finder or launching them all via the Dock is rather futile , in my opinion -- unless you have a very small collection of Applications ... If you 're looking for folder icons , there are tons of online sources . I recommend the <URL> to start . Customization : in the Finder if you use the Command in the file menu on a selected folder ( also available in the right-click contextual menu ) , you can select the icon in the info window top-left . From there you can copy the icon resources and paste them . So that 's how you can customize the folders , copy icons from a downloaded folder source , and paste them into your new folders . Panic software produces an excellent Application for icon management that can also streamline this process called <URL> .
Electrically yes , physically not without an adapter . Only the physical layout of the pins and metal end that connects to the Air is different . However , with the <URL> ( $ 10 ) lets any original sized MagSafe adapter slim down to work with the new thinner Mac-side of the MagSafe 2 connection .
Apparently you can ... Upload any image using the Add image ( not the attachment ) button in edit mode . Once uploaded . While still in edit mode . Click on the same line right " before " the image , not on the image itself ... in the white space . A new button will appear in the edit toolbar at the top it will say Link ( down arrow ) . Click that ... it works just like normal links , and you can link that photo anywhere . Click Save ... now when you click the image ... instead of getting another window with the preview ... you get redirected to the URL you provided .
This answer is in two parts . If you 're after all the preference files associated with iTunes then the list is relatively short . If you want every file that iTunes accesses then the list is going to be vastly and incredibly long and also very difficult to track down . If you can offer some more context of what reason you 're trying to track these down maybe I can help you isolate files related to your needs . All of iTunes preference files : File ( Primary ) : Located at : Files : | | Located at : Hidden File : Located at : All of the settings you set/change in the iTunes application are represented in the two primary preference files . The one in the ByHost folder above and the other main one called above . Hope that helps .
It does n't appear that your MBP is capable of driving 2 4k displays with the Macbook 's primary display working ( see Graphics and Video support ) : <URL> Also the OWC Dock is n't capable of driving 2 4k displays so even if your MBP is capable of driving the displays you 'll need to use the HDMI port or one of the other Thunderbolt 2 ports to drive the second display : <URL> One thing you may be able to try is to close the Macbook to turn off it 's primary display , thus freeing up resources to try to handle both 4k displays .
You probably need to step a level further down the tree of software and hardware , to the level of <URL> - which acts as a filter between the physical keyboard and the keyboard events reported to MacOS . The software keyboard map is an optional thing - software can intercept keyboard events at a level that bypasses it , if they wish , and it sounds like some of what the browser does with key binding is touching on that . A lower level remapping may bypass that problem .
I would stay away from the hdd fan control , mainly because it is n't a long term fix . Although it is an easy solution now , all it would take is a software upgrade from apple to cause it to be useless ... a patch could then be made by hdd fan control , but there may be a time delay , in which you would be stuck with the imac fans spinning at nearly 6000rpm instead of the idle speed of 1000rpm ... its loud to say the least . If you want a hardware fix , i 've come up with a solution . I 'll expand on it a little without going into too much technical detail . ( sorry my reply is a bit late , i only just came across this message online ) For starters , a standard SATA power cable uses only 4 cables , despite having a 15pin connector . This is because the pins are broken down in sets of 3 , and each cable type can be combined after it leaves the connector . ( the main reason for this is because the current on each individual pin can not move fast enough on a single pin to power the 3.5 " drives , so they have to have 3x 12v , 3x 3.3 v , 3x 5v then 2 sets of 3x coms , which are then combined onto 1 cable ... so the 4 cables used are 12v , 3.3 v , 5v and coms ) Without going into too much technical detail , two coms tracts send the data from the internal SMART disk of the hard drive to the main logic board . The difference between Apples drives and an industry standard drive is that the firmware revision differs ... The logic boards in the 2011 iMacs can only communicate with certain revisions of this firmware , and after testing nearly 100 different drives , i have been unsuccessful in finding a revision that works with it without changing the hardware or running the software . ( which is n't free by the way , its a # 20 download , but you can download a sample of the app to test it beforehand ) With the 2009 and 2010 iMacs that use the internal SMART disk to convey the hard drives temperature , i have found certain industry standard firmware revisions do work with it , but each manufacturer uses a different connection type , as they dont use the SATA power cable to send the data , but instead use a separate 2 pin connector cable that goes to the logic board directly . As there is no central source of firmware revisions that will work with it , maintaining stock of the drives that do work has proven to be a pain , as testing a drive from each stock with a 2009 or 2010 machine is not the easiest option . ( suppliers are not able to specify firmware revisions when shipping drives in my experience , so restocking a specific revision that previously worked is not possible ) Needless to say , i found a sensor that operates at the same frequency as the internal SMART disk for the 09/10 imac , and its part number is 593-1029 ( you can look it up on www.thebookyard.com ) its listed as the LCD cable for the same range , but it is compatible with the hard drive port , as i have done rigorous testing on this . all you need to do is replace the current sensor cable , then adhere the sensor to the drive ( then it will act as a surface temperature sensor instead of an ambient temperature sensor ) As for the 2011 iMac problem , the easiest solution was to make a cable myself . So , instead of explaining the whole process in all its technical glory , here is the link to the part on the site . <URL> As for an easier to fit solution , i am currently working on an adapter solution that will not require loosening the screws on the logic board to fit a replacement cable . ( As the SATA ports are on the underside of the logic board by the graphics card port ) I have also written a small blog about it here if you want a bit more detail , otherwise i can explain the process in more detail if you 'd prefer . <URL> But all is not lost , as there is always a solution ! Even if it takes a bit of creative finagling to do so .
The Late 2015 iMac 5K with AMD 395X can support two external 4K ( UHD ) displays ( at the full 3840x2160 res ) with the builtin iMac display set to 5120x2880 FYI . This is the configuration that I am currently running ( with 10.11.2 ) , using two LG 27MU67 displays attached via DisplayPort-to-miniDP cables on each of the iMac 's thunderbolt ports .
The hardware is capable of 30fps , I have this model ( MacBookPro9 ,1 , i7 2.3 GHz ) on my desk in front of me and just shot a movie that lists as 29.81 fps at 720p . However , Apple will , in software , reduce the frame rate if your HDD/SSD/other storage and/or processor and memory are not capable of handling the maximum frame rate at the time of capture . The do this to ensure you can still use the camera even in non-optimal conditions . How much free space ( percentage ) do you have on your storage ? Are you running any processor intensive applications . How much RAM do you have ? These factors can have a serious impact on capture rates . It is also entirely possible that the frame rate is being affected by other factors if you are using a 3rd party application such as Skype . Hope this helps ?
I believe there would be a time frame to which the data would be able to be retained given some simple knowledge of server configurations . You could think of the iCloud server as a series of hard drives all connected together and connected to the Internet . Some of the hard drive are used for saving your information and your iCloud account allows you to choose how big you want your iCloud storage capacity to be . Other hard drives are used to backup those hard drives . These would be used in the case a large number of the hard drives were not working properly . In this case your information is still saved , which is a very smart and good business practice . Some other hard drives are used when only one of the hard drives with customer information is failing , then this drive will pickup where it left off so there are no service issues . Also , very smart practice . So as far as that information which has been deleted , it is probably still able to be retained for a period of time , after which it would be overwritten on the drives which backup the drives with the original data . Your privacy would still be respected due to the high encryption level of iCloud . Lastly , retaining the information through an interface such as the Settings > iCloud pane in iOS would not be available . However , the information may still be able to be retained in the case it were done on accident .
end question
start question
Is there a way to access a Mac 's geolocation from terminal ?
vilmoskörte 's <URL> appears to be a good one , but I took it upon myself to make a tool that does this for my own education . I put it on GitHub . <URL> A simple command line tool . No options , just runs and outputs Lat/Long , accuracy in meters , and a timestamp . It will need OS X Location Services to be turned on ( System Preferences > Security &amp; Privacy ) , and permission to gather your location ( OS X will prompt you on first run ) . <URL>
And the correct answer is : No . Encryption only affects the OS X volume . Booting into Boot Camp , the necessary password prompt to allow decryption is bypassed entirely . The volume becomes an opaque blob to anything but a running OS X system .
<URL> can do this , but its development has been a bit stale ( I do n't know if it still works ) . Window switching is fast and fun With Witch installed , a pop-up panel shows all open windows -- even windows in other Spaces , if you 're running 10.6 . From the panel , simply select the window you 'd like to activate . There is no step two ! <URL>
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
You can change terminal only with this one command to write a new preference for that specific app . This is general , so of course , substitute safari or quicktimeplayerX or whatever in the portion of the command as needed . This setting switches the default save behavior upon quitting that one app . You 'll find many of the other apps that work well with this setting by <URL> . Of course , you should issue this command after closing all windows and then quitting the application to ensure the settings are read the next time Terminal starts .
You might consider searching the App Store . A few that turned up were : <URL> <URL> <URL> .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
<URL> for iOS Prompt allows you to remotely <URL> into another machine . Without jailbreaking , there is no way to use Terminal to access your file system . However , I 've found that if you do jailbreak your phone and want to use Prompt as a Terminal , you can set it to SSH to server and authenticate with the <URL> . <URL> for iOS This app does basically the same thing just a little differently . By default it allows a VNC connection for screen sharing , but it has different add ons that you can purchase that allow SSH , <URL> , and <URL> .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
<URL> BetterTouchTool allows you to set a trigger to move a window to a second monitor , such as the one below : Trigger : Doubleclick Window Titlebar ; Predifined Action : Move Window to Next Monitor Alternatively , a mouse button , keyboard shortcut , Apple Remote , Magic Mouse or trackpad gesture could be set up as the trigger . <URL> Slate is an extremely customisable tool that allows you to set window layouts/positions through keyboard shortcuts . Combining this with a BTT gesture , you can create a gesture-driven window movement tool for free ! Slate is a window management application similar to Divvy and SizeUp ( except better and free ! ) . Originally written to replace them due to some limitations in how each work , it attempts to overcome them by simply being extremely configurable . As a result , it may be a bit daunting to get configured , but once it is done , the benefit is huge .
If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " checked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " unchecked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + Fn + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar Although the leftmost user-installed ones on my computer can not be accessed , you can then use the cursor keys to move ← → and ↓ to bring up the menu associated with the icon . In addition , Ctrl + F2 ( or Ctrl + Fn + F2 ) moves keyboard focus to the menubar items .
The only way to sync a non-Apple device with iCloud is to sync your Mac with iCloud , then sync you may with the device using iSync .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
May be able just create a simlink to the / User directory . To do this , open up Terminal and enter : You 'll want to move your original Users folder out of the way ( rename it or move it or whatever ) . * Where [ SeperateDrivePath ] is the path to your volume just underneath the cloned / Users folder . Probably something like / Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name / . In this case , your clones / Users should exist at/Volumes/Some Hard Drive Name/Users .
Select the folder for Gmail in the Mail.app sidebar ( might be under a heading in Mail depending on how you set it up ) then go to the menu in the menu bar and look down near the bottom for the menu . Choose in there and that should make the Gmail-based Sent folder the default place for Mail.app to save outgoing mail . It will also appear to move that folder out of the Gmail section and up to the top-most section below , etc. . After you do this you may notice you now have a section in the Mail sidebar for folders , and a folder in there . This is the folder that previously was containing all messages sent via Gmail but stored locally . Feel free to copy all the messages out of there and into the new default folder ( which will copy them all up to the Gmail server ) . PS - This process works for as well , so you can map the Gmail Trash to be used by Mail.app . You can also do it for but I 've seen some weird behaviour where Gmail/Mail . app does n't delete drafts after sending a message and you get a ton of them stacking up in Drafts , which is why I usually leave Drafts as a local-only folder .
Typing works for me on Lion . You can substitute for any of the preference panes in the folder . This also switches to the correct pane even if System Preferences is already open .
end question
start question
Add wallpaper to iPad but not to the list of Photos ?
I do n't believe you can , maybe with jailbreaking ? However , after setting the wallpaper , you can remove it from your photo library without affecting your wallpaper selection . This may be a bit inconvenient when you regularly switch between wallpapers , but it is as close as it gets .
Go to Applications > Utilities and open up Activity Monitor . Scroll down until you find your application . Highlight it and click the " Quit Process " button in the upper left . Now it is no longer running and can be deleted from your computer .
<URL> A PC , like a Mac , will see the iPad as a camera . Instead of using an application to load the photos , you can just browse to them in Windows Explorer and copy them to a local folder .
So far it seems the best way to do it is to run the following script ( Windows 7 ) periodically : This will leave me with a folder full of symlinks ( ) , neatly organized in subfolders , which I will sync with my iDevices .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
Solved - if no partition of the disk has the bootable flag , the disk does not appear at the boot screen . In my tests , if the partition that has the bootable flag has been formatted with command ( without options ) using mkfs.vfat versions 3.0.14 or 3.0.17 , the disk appears at boot , but , when the disk is selected , the bootloader is not run . Instead , the message " This is not a bootable disk " is printed . The partition that is flagged as bootable does not have to be the one that contains the bootloader configuration files , and it may have MBR partition type 83 and/or ext4 or btrfs filesystem .
Siri dictation is never going to be 100 % accurate and the easiest way to get the result you want may be to edit the text by hand after you 've dictated the body of the message . Jim Rhoades provides a useful list of <URL> .
Set it as a Nickname instead . Then it would only be seen by you . Do n't hand the contact card to anyone , though , as it would be in that . See <URL> for a cautionary tale ;-) A friend of mine has been " Young Master Johnson " [ fake name ] for 15 years without anyone else knowing .
There really does n't seem to be a way to view this info at all on iOS 5 iPads , in Apple 's " Music " app . Further iPad iOS 5 podcast annoyances : If the main " Music " you listen to is podcasts , it 's really annoying that you can no longer promote the " Podcasts " button from " More " to the main view : so you always have to go to " More " to see your podcasts . If you have a mixture of video and audio podcasts , you have to switch between the " Videos " and " Music " apps to see them . For all these reasons , I gave up on the built-in iOS 5 podcast tools , and switched to <URL> . It costs a small amount of money , but has so many convenience features built in that it 's well worth it . ( It 's actually iPhone only - but works fine on iPad , at 2x size , even for showing videos ) I particularly like : It downloads the latest episode of shows you subscribe to , but seamlessly shows you earlier ones too , so you can easily stream them Automatic downloading via WiFi - so no more need to connect my device to a PC to update lots of podcasts Back and forward buttons to go move 30 seconds back or forwards - or you can change the settings , and make these buttons go back/forward 10 , then 20 then 30 seconds if clicked in quick succession . Small icon at top-right of screen shows/hide details of podcasts . Sleep facility ( 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , 90 minutes ) ( I 'd like to include a link to the original question here where I saw Podcaster first mentioned , but there are so many answers singing its praises , I really do n't remember which one I saw . ) Edit And to answer your question about Tiesto 's Club Life Podcast , yes , Podcaster displays that well . It shows the images as you listen , and at bottom-right of the screen there 's a little chapters icon that shows name of each chapter , and its position ( in minutes and seconds ) Furthermore , you can swipe upwards on the screen , when playing , to show the chapters .
You can read the recent items plist file . There 's a lot of " noise " in the output . You can filter the " noise " with and list the last entry with which should be the last file opened ( but not always the case ) .
we called Apple they said we need to re-set the iPad
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
Answers above are old we are at iOS 10 . Google Drive did show and now it has disappeared just after successfully uploading from Photos to my Google Drive . I 'm signed in and can see my drive contents .
Easiest way is to use Image Capture from OS X You can use it to Import too , to any app that can import pictures , or to a folder location . Select any pictures you wish to delete &amp; hit the ' no entry ' sign to trash from your device
If you want it right now , why not plug the phone into the Mac &amp; use Image Capture , in the Applications folder - which is the importer ' behind ' Photos.app . You can also set it to auto-launch any capable app , including itself , when a device is connected [ or do nothing ] &amp; set exactly where your imports should be saved . You can also dictate whether it should auto-delete from the device afterwards , or alternatively you can manually delete any selected pictures . <URL>
Start Safari Access bookmarks ( the Book icon on the toolbar ) Pick ' Reading List ' ( Top entry in the table with the glasses icon ) Unlike InstaPaper , the Reading List just collects links ( not content ) so you need to be online to access the articles .
Perhaps an AppleScript like this one can help . Note that I 'm not really proficient in AppleScript , so I 'm sure this can be improved , but no one has answered so far .
In OS X 10.10 's Photos application , location information is read-only . Photos reads GPS coordinates from image files during import and displays the location in the Info window . It can also show photos belonging to a collection or moment on a map . The " Photos Help " puts it this way : " If your camera has GPS capability ( as iPhone does ) , or you 've added GPS information to your photos , Photos can automatically display your photos on a map . " Unfortunately location information is also read-only by the way of Apple Script . I develop the photo geocoding software <URL> . When used with iPhoto or Aperture , this allows for a very elegant workflow : Import photos into iPhoto or Aperture Geocode the photos using HoudahGeo or <URL> . Write geotags to the original image files Have HoudahGeo notify iPhoto or Aperture of the newly added geotags The last step of the workflow uses Apple Script to update the library to reflect the location information added to the files . This is not currently possible with the new Photos application . Until Apple adds the option to change location information via Apple Script , we have to resort to a less elegant workflow . Import photos using the <URL> application Geocode the photos using third party software like HoudahGeo or <URL> . Write EXIF/XMP geotags to the image files Import the tagged files into your Photos library This workflow does have its advantages . The process of updating the iPhoto or Aperture library for thousands of photos can be rather slow . Adding the GPS information before import is faster . The above workflow also ensures that GPS information is stored as EXIF/XMP tags within the image files . Just the same as if you had used a GPS camera . The location information will thus always stay with the images . Update for macOS Sierra : With Apple Photos 2.0 and HoudahGeo 5.1 running on Sierra it again possible to notify Photos of changes made to location information . I.e. HoudahGeo will geotag orginal image files with EXIF/XMP tags and then pass on location information to the Photos app .
iOS 5 has now introduced a new feature under Settings > General > Usage that perfectly displays the amount of data taken up by every app on the device , sorted by top offenders .
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
end question
start question
How long does it take to get used to the keyboard of the MacBook 12 " ?
I personally started typing as fast as I would on a ' normal ' keyboard after about five minutes . You 'll really get used to it in a very short time !
About 40 minutes or so . I 'm assuming a 5400RPM drive , 7200RPM or an SSD would be faster , obviously .
These are what you need to keep in mind : The battery works using chemical reactions , these reactions can not be stopped but they can be slowed . A laptop with the battery left in will continue using that battery very slowly . A battery left completely dead inside a laptop that is still trying to draw power will kill the battery completely . If you are storing the MacBook for a few months , take better care where you store it . Place it in a case , or completely dry bag to prevent dust buildup . Even if you keep it in the box it has come with , it would be fine . Taking the above care , you do n't have to worry about the battery . Apple 's <URL> page offers the following advice : If you want to store your device long term , two key factors will affect the overall health of your battery : the environmental temperature and the percentage of charge on the battery when it 's powered down for storage . Therefore , we recommend the following : Do not fully charge or fully discharge your device 's battery -- charge it to around 50 % . If you store a device when its battery is fully discharged , the battery could fall into a deep discharge state , which renders it incapable of holding a charge . Conversely , if you store it fully charged for an extended period of time , the battery may lose some capacity , leading to shorter battery life . Power down the device to avoid additional battery use . Place your device in a cool , moisture-free environment that 's less than 90 ° F ( 32 ° C ) . If you plan to store your device for longer than six months , charge it to 50 % every six months . Depending on how long you store your device , it may be in a low-battery state when you remove it from long-term storage . After it 's removed from storage , it may require 20 minutes of charging with the original adapter before you can use it .
Apple allows widgets to be displayed on the desktop in order to allow the people developing the widgets to test them without using Dashboard . Your system must have had that capability turned on somehow and that widget set to run on your desktop . It 's very easy to get the widget off of your desktop , and make it so that no other widgets will accidentally be relocated . To get the widget off your desktop : click and hold on the widget , then press F12 to enter Dashboard . Once Dashboard is active , release the mouse from the widget . The widget is now docked in your Dashboard instead of on your desktop . You 'll probably have two copies of the widget in Dashboard now . You can get rid of one in the normal way ( press the plus button at the bottom left and click the on the widget ) . You can also just hold down the option key over the widget and the will appear . Now , to prevent other widgets from escaping Dashboard in the future : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Paste this in and press enter : If , on the other hand , you want to run some widgets on your desktop , you can run the above command with instead of . Then , activate Dashboard , click and hold on a widget , exit Dashboard , and release the widget .
This happened to me when I installed CrashPlan Mac menubar app over a year ago , and when a recent version of CrashPlan included its own menubar . If that 's the case for you , see if you can find the CrashPlan Menubar app ( in your Applications folder ? ) and just delete it .
Sounds like you have a problem . Have a look at this <URL> on what to do if this happens .
Most typically , it is used for the <URL> , which can control iTunes , QuickTime and various other built in software . Additionally , 3rd party software ( see <URL> and <URL> ) also makes use of the device and can tie in much more functionality . In the past ( prior to Lion ) , the Apple Remote was an excellent companion to <URL> , a media manager that some call the predecessor to the Apple TV interface .
It 's like this : With the " Kana " setting , you can reach the different kana of one group by either " flicking " in different directions , or by repeatedly tapping one kana . With the " flick only " setting , only the flicking works , not the tapping .
Have you tried <URL> ? They say that it lets you easily share your mouse and keyboard between multiple computers on your desktop . There are some <URL> which show how it works .
<URL> shows photos of a direct comparison : Standing in front of the white-LED backlight on the new MBP , it 's immediately apparent how crisp the whites are -- it 's very noticeable after staring into CCFL LCDs all day long . But even though the whites were whiter , the screen did n't necessarily seem a lot brighter , which is probably where some amount of CCFL dimming on our test MBP came into play in creating the dramatic difference we saw . Viewing angles were very similar on both machines , but as you 'll notice , at half brightness it 's the LED backlit MBP that 's dimmer , and the CCFL display that 's actually brighter . Interesting stuff . Also interesting could be the Advantages and Disadvantages sections of the Wikipedia article on LEDs ( <URL> ) : Slow failure : LEDs mostly fail by dimming over time , rather than the abrupt failure of incandescent bulbs . Lifetime : LEDs can have a relatively long useful life . One report estimates 35,000 to 50,000 hours of useful life , though time to complete failure may be longer . Fluorescent tubes typically are rated at about 10,000 to 15,000 hours , depending partly on the conditions of use , and incandescent light bulbs at 1,000 -- 2,000 hours .
The Recovery Partition does not get updated . Once the partition is created , OS X Recovery downloads the latest of your OS X version from Apple . Extracted from Apple 's <URL> : Reinstalling OS X Lion or OS X Mountain Lion via OS X Recovery requires broadband access to the Internet via Wi-Fi or an Ethernet connection . OS X is downloaded over the Internet from Apple when OS X Recovery is used for reinstallation .
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
" Allow Full Access " has nothing to do with using the actual keyboard . The keyboard is accessible for you to use throughout the system regardless of this setting . In short , allowing full access grants the developer of the keyboard additional access to some of your information and gives the developer access to the internet . From the <URL> under " Designing for User Trust " , Allow Full Access does this : Keyboard can access Location Services and Address Book , with user permission Keyboard can send keystrokes and other input events for server-side processing Containing app can provide editing interface for keyboard 's custom autocorrect lexicon Keyboard can employ iCloud to ensure settings and autocorrect lexicon are up to date on all devices Keyboard can participate in Game Center and In-App Purchase The second bullet point is what Apple really wants you to understand . With Allow Full Access a developer COULD send your keystrokes to their server for processing , which might include : analyzing your sentence for grammar analyzing a word for spelling predicting the word you are typing . Apple is highlighting the fact that a developer COULD use your keystrokes for nefarious reasons instead of the legitimate reasons I listed above . It is possible for a developer to record your sensitive information such as credit card number or street address . In my opinion , it is not possible for a developer to write a fully-fledged keyboard extension without requesting full access . Without Full Access I ca n't utilize In-App Purchases , I ca n't sync your preferences using iCloud , I can not even provide a basic auto-correct feature . I just finished developing a keyboard extension for iOS . My keyboard never sends your keystrokes across the internet . I will never see what you have typed . There are no privacy concerns in my opinion , yet you still receive a scary message from Apple when you turn on Allow Full Access . If you have concerns about turning Allow Full Access ON , ask the developer how they are using your data/keystrokes . One additional note , you can not use a custom keyboard to type into a password field . iOS will always use the system keyboard for password fields . Developers that do process your keystrokes will not have access to your passwords , unless you type your passwords into a non-password field .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
I 'm assuming you set up Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 5 yourself , as it 's not a System default . If you use Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 then you can drag a marquee round the item you want , or even use Space afterwards to grab the entire floating widget , examples below ... Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 Note the hard edges &amp; visible background . Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 followed by Space then clicking the desired ' window ' / widget . Note the soft edges with shadows
end question
start question
how to switch windows faster ... ?
There are quite a few commands which let you do this in Mac OS X : Cmd + Tab for switching applications Cmd + ` for switching windows within applications F3/F9 for Exposé ( shows all windows in a graphical way , on trackpads you can do a 4-finger swipe down ) F10 for showing windows of a specific application in Exposé F11 for showing desktop and shoving all other windows to the side , on a trackpad its 4 finger swipe up There is also Spaces which is like having multiple desktops , where you can switch to and fro . You can enable it in the prefrence pane in System Preferences and suit the keyboard shortcuts to you liking
Sharing must be enabled . To see the Mac from your PC 's , enable File Sharing ( System Preferences/Sharing/File Sharing ) . You will need to take the additional step of enabling Samba sharing , since PC 's do n't use Apple 's File sharing Protocol ( AFP ) . Do this by then clicking on options , and make sure " Share files and folders using SMB ( Windows ) " is checked . Turn it on for whichever accounts you wish to authorize . In order to see PC shares from your Mac , the PC 's must be on the same network , with sharing enabled . Share a folder or something . Is it XP , Vista , 7 ? If it 's XP , disable Simple File Sharing . Do so by opening a folder , going to Tools - > Options , and find it at the bottom of View . Then right-click a folder , go to Sharing and Security , and enable sharing . If it still does n't show up , you may have a network/firewall issue , and it warrants further help . . but try that to get you started .
I keep my documents on the Mac side as I 'm pretty much only using Parallels to run my BootCamp install , so that way they 're backed up . I do n't really mind doing a fresh reinstall of windows if something goes wrong .
It proved trivial : power down iPhone change SIM card turn iPhone on launch Whatsapp Whatsapp asks something like " Mobile network changed . Switch to new phone number ? " . Tap " No " That 's it . All groups , chat history and contacts preserved . My friends see me ( and chat history with me ) as I never changed SIM card or number . Later switch back to the original number works exactly the same . Mind the <URL> from Whatsapp FAQ : " Please do not swap SIM cards ... frequently , or you will create problems in the verification process . " But with two changes " to new and back to the old " in half an hour , I of course did n't experience any problems .
I ended up getting <URL> power pack and setup a hotkey there . It 's much much faster than the automator service .
As you know , per your question , the preferences in the Preview app only apply to documents when first opened . It seems that OS X has a built in default view for full screen documents . I tried a couple things ... I opened a PDF to Full Screen and set the view to Continuous to see if this would stick and that view would be chosen next time I went full screen . Not the case . I searched every preference file related to Preview ( also using 10.9.2 ) and found no setting even indirectly related to a view setting specifically when in full screen . I 'd say , doing what you want is either not possible at all or at best it 'd require getting into a preference setting somewhere you would n't want to poke around with . My guess would be it 's a setting inside Preview.app 's package contents . Fooling around in there can get hairy As an alternative to setting a new default , the keyboard shortcut to switch to Continuous view is : So you can just quickly hit that each time you go full screen and the view changes immediately . It 's not exactly what you wanted , but it 's a very fast alternative . Hope that helps !
Apple <URL> : Boot Camp : Remove Windows from your Mac How you remove Windows from your Mac depends on whether you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions or one that has a single partition . Important : Back up all important data stored on your Windows partition . If you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions Start up your Mac in OS X. Quit all open apps and log out any other users . Open Boot Camp Assistant , then click Continue . Select " Remove Windows 7 or later version , " then click Continue . Do one of the following : If your Mac has a single internal disk , click Restore . If your Mac has multiple internal disks , select the Windows disk , select " Restore disk to a single OS X partition , " then click Continue . If you installed Windows on a disk that has a single partition Start up your Mac in OS X. Open Disk Utility , located in the Other folder in Launchpad . Select the Windows disk , click Erase , choose the Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) > format , then click the Erase button .
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
You might want to try the application <URL> . It has a built-in function to convert Mac file &amp; folder names to legal Windows file &amp; folder names : Naturally , somebody will come along later and throw a smattering of regex in a bash script for you to puzzle out , but ABFR does this kind of thing so easily . It can even create a droplet app onto which you can ' drop ' files &amp; folders to be processed . It is a handy tool to have in your toolbox if you are n't a strong programmer , or do n't have the time , or both .
According to <URL> , Safari 5.1.1 for Windows will sync the Reading List via iCloud . Safari 5.1.1 includes support for iCloud , a breakthrough set of free cloud services . iCloud stores your Safari bookmarks and Safari Reading List and automatically pushes them to all your devices . I believe you would need to have Safari up to date . Then , install the <URL> and configure it to sync Safari content . Then , enable iCloud on all of your Mac/iOS devices , and you should be good to go .
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
TL ; DR : Yes on both accounts . Start with RAM . Max it out at 8 GBs . My compile times dropped in half going from 4 GB to 8 GB -- swapping is a performance killer and the primary cause of the beach ball on OS X . More memory , less swapping . Happier development . Then go SDD . In my case I went to an SDD in my DVD drive slot . I never used the thing so did n't think it was worth keeping around . Compile times for larger Java projects on the SDD vs the HD are consistently 3x faster on the SDD . There 's a caveat to all of this : SDDs are unreliable . When they fail , they fail hard . That 's why I opted to keep my Main drive on a spinning platter drive . Also remember : Time Machine does n't back up anything by your Main drive . So that means nothing on my SDD is backed up by Time Machine . Why am I okay with this ? Two words : revision control . I only do things on my SDD that are backed by revision control . In my case git . And I push my changes upstream fairly frequently . If the drive fails , I 'd lose an hour or two of work and that 's not so bad . Everything else is safe on my remote repository in the cloud .
If everything else was equal ( CPU architecture , generation , manufacturing process , OS , power management strategy , software running etc. ) the answer is maybe . Modern CPUs like the i3/i5/i7 series downclock themselves when idle so it depends what you 're doing and what the actual CPUs are . If everything is as equal as you can make it and you compare CPUs of identical generation , one with maximum clock speed higher than the other and you are using the CPUs to their maximum capacity - then the more powerful CPU does drain the battery faster - but it gets more work done in the same time too , and might get back to the idle state faster . You can only really answer this question if you test your exact scenario .
You can go into Mission Control ( formerly known as Expose in Snow Leopard ) , then drag the window from your current desktop the thumbnail of the other desktop , which will be at the top of the screen .
Your apps by default are downloaded to the location ' C : \ Users \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Media \ Mobile Applications ' . Take a copy of the apps from this location and back it up on an external hard drive , flash drive , DVD or a different machine . When you re-install or move to a new machine , simply bring the apps back to the new PC and drag-drop them on to the apps section of iTunes .
You have to hit the Left COMMAND key once and the mouse switches to finder and other apps . If you click inside of virtualbox it activates the virtual machine which in this case is ubuntu . ( This assumes that you are running in the default mode which captures on click ) . It 's confusing because it 's displayed with a left arrow , but what they really mean is the left COMMAND key . ( The one that looks like it has a four leaf clover on it ) . The key looks like this : ⌘ It 's also known as the Apple key . This key is on either side of the space bar . Each works the same . So for example if you wanted to print a document in Windows you could use the keyboard shortcut CONTROL + " P " ( Press the control key , continue to hold it while pressing the " P " key ) , on a Mac they use a different key - it 's the COMMAND Key not the CONTROL key so you need to press ⌘ and the letter " P " to print . So if you know several keyboard shortcuts for Microsoft Windows , just try them on the Mac but instead of using the CONTROL key substitute the COMMAND key . The CONTROL key , SHIFT key , OPTION key , and COMMAND key ( or Apple key as some like to call it ) , are all what 's called modifier keys . You press them to modify the function of other keys on your computer . However in Virtual Box they have mapped the left one , to the left of the spacebar to allow you to leave the virtual host 's screen and return to Apple 's Finder or any other program that 's currently running .
If you 're using iTunes on Windows , I think you can just use playlist sharing ? If you 're looking to access a directory that 's shared from Windows , you 'll need to find a utility for your iPad that supports Samba ( SMB ) , as that 's the protocol in use for file sharing on Windows .
If Windows 8 has been released in your country , you should be able to find a reseller with the System Builder version available as a DVD . Local system builders is a pretty big business in most countries so just look around for someone offering custom built Windows systems . A quick Google search on " create a DVD ISO on OS X " shows lots of how-to articles for that step . You can either use an external DVD reader ( maybe $ 30 ) or get somebody with a DVD to create the ISO for you .
I already use <URL> which does the trick but it has some annoying bugs and it 's only useful for russian-speaking users because UI is only in russian . That 's why I want to find an alternative . The main purpose of <URL> is to fixe words typed with wrong keyboard layout . For example : руддщ → hello ghbdtn → привет So it may be useful for somebody who uses russian a lot ( outsourcing managers , people who learn russian , etc ) .
I have tested an iPhone 5 , and on my system <URL> . As you would expect , the included 1 A wall charger is about twice as fast .
end question
start question
Does OS X Yosemite support spotlight on network drives ?
Indexing of an AFP-network drive is n't a problem : To enable spotlight indexing on a network drive open and enter : To disable the indexing of a connected network drive : To check the status of indexing on a connected network drive : <URL> In the comments there , a Synology NAS has been mentioned explicitly : MacHouis • a year ago Thanks a lot , it works very fine :) :) :) . I had to mount the volume ( a Synology Ethernet server ) in afp to start the Spotlight Indexing ... thanks thanks thanks ... This also works for older Mac OS Xs ( in the example below it 's Lion ) . Make sure that you 've switched to ' Shared ' in the search window :
According to <URL> in the Apple Support Communities , I 'm needed to create a mobile account on my server : In Workgroup Manager , select your username in the list of users . Click the Preferences button . Click the Mobility button . Turn it on using your desired settings . Thanks to <URL> for pointing me to the right direction .
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
You ca n't , Spotlight stores the search index in the root folder of the volume . When the volume is disconnected , you can not get search results from it .
Are these shares automounted ? You could use AppleScript , or even bash quite effectively to do this using a Log Out Hook ( or running manually ) :
The format process can be handled differently depending on what the OS actually accomplish by during the format . Formatting should leave a clean and cleared file system . This can be done very fast by only clearing the file allocation table ( FAT ) . This means writing to a very limited blocks / sectors on the disk . Alternatively formatting may include clearing all the data previously on the disk/drive . This obviously involves writing to ALL of the disk and is a lot more time consuming . Windows have the " fast " option and Mac OS X also has the " slow " option - OS X even has options to multi-wipe data with random garbage data ( this usually takes forever ) .
I 'm not aware of a good way to modify the radio broadcast power level on the built-in card on a Mac . However , you may find that setting up a <URL> achieves your goal of limiting the range . Regarding your second question , there have been previous inquiries about changing the WiFi encryption protocol on Mac Ad-Hoc networks from WEP with no results .
All actions taken on a non admin account that would need admin privileges require the user to enter the name of an admin account and the password before continuing . So if you download software on a standard user account , when you come to install it you will be asked to enter the admin user name and password . I use the admin account and my girlfriend has a standard user account . She can import music , photos download apps from the app store , she can change system preferences in the settings panel but not alter the status of my admin account , create accounts , etc , etc. . I have not heard of this procedure of using a non admin account as to do anything that will change the system as you are required to enter the password anyway .
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
Look in / var/log for and . contains the most current logs ; the other files are archives of successively older log files , made whenever each one reached a maximum size .
The easiest way is doing it using <URL> . You just need to type the following couple of commands in a terminal window : If you do n't have homebrew installed , just type the following to install before the previous commands :
Lion is the first Mac OS X to license some virtualization on the non-server OS . From the 10.7 EULA : ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software . Notice the condition , though : it 's only allowed on Mac hardware when running Lion as the host OS . There are also provisions for installing it over Snow Leopard macs . Running it on HP hardware would likely be a violation of the license as written . Check with your lawyer as always when the question of legality is involved since any license has to respect your local laws .
As the other answers suggest , you can simply drag and drop into your mail message . However , I found that this is not always the behavior that I want . Sometimes I want to see the file in the context of its own folder , or get additional files around it . Holding down the Command ⌘ key , while double-clicking on the Spotlight result , will open the containing folder of your image ( or any file ) in the Finder . I use this function all the time . As a bonus , just holding the Command ⌘ key will show you the path of the file underneath its Preview , as illustrated in the following screenshot .
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
On Apple hardware , yes - <URL> . Otherwise , no - it 's a violation of the EULA .
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
Sure . Just go to System Preferences/Network , select Wifi and click Advanced . A list with all the Wifi networks you 've been connected to will appear . Just rearrange the connection order ( the ones you 'd like to connect first on top ) by drag-dropping . Also , delete any unwanted network SSID ( network names ) if you no longer want to auto-join that .
To get to Spotlight , just swipe down somewhere in the middle of the screen , not from the top ( on any home screen , not in an app and not while locked ) .
You need to have write permission for the bundle . After you open the lock : Select ' Read &amp; Write ' permission for ' everyone ' Add your comments Restore the permissions
The Xscope app has a presbyopia filter that does a light blur . <URL> I see several large screen sizes , but you might not get your whole screen blurred . It works very well on the latest release of OS X and you can try it out for free I believe . If you 're a programmer and not just looking for a ready-made tool , you would do worse to try something other than Brad Larson 's tutorial on GPU accelerated video processing at <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a way to quit an app when the last item is closed ?
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
I 'm not sure if using a fake address would be legal . Technically , you can create an account in the US Store using an iTunes Gift Card and a fake address/phone number . You can buy iTunes Gift Cards in eBay ( some sellers will expedite things by sending activation codes by email ) . If you 're only interested in free Apps , you can create an account without the Gift card . There is an <URL> describing the process . Regardless of payment , Apple asks for a valid US address to establish an account , so the legality of this depends on where you live .
I found this , and it works : Say you restore your iPhone with a full wipe and restore . Then you choose a previous backup to restore all of your settings and applications . When your iPhone is done restoring to your backup , all your icons are mixed up on the SpringBoard ... what the heck ? You want to get them back do n't you ? Well , I know a trick and I do n't think it 's documented anywhere . Here it goes . ** Important : Before starting these instructions , backup your iPhone . Then go into iTunes preferences and turn on " Disable automatic syncing for iPhones and iPods " This way your backup wo n't get overwritten after your iPhone gets restored . Restore your iPhone and let it restart and activate . Then iTunes will happily ask you if you want to restore from a previous backup ( with all of your settings and Applications ) . Click the backup you want to restore to and let it restore and reboot . ( Here 's where things get messed up . Your iPhone backup actually restored the correct icon positions except none of your apps were installed before the restore was complete , so iTunes has to copy all of your apps back to your iPhone . When it does this , it copys them in alphabetical order , thus messing up the location of all your 3rd party icons ) . Here 's how to fix this without memorizing where all your icons went . Right click ( or Control-click ) on the iPhone icon in iTunes and choose " Restore from Backup " and choose the backup you chose in step 2 again . Let your iPhone restore for a second time and when it reboots , all of your icons will be in their original places . ( This is because iTunes did n't have to install the Apps because they were already there , thus keeping them in their original locations according to the backup ) . Return your iTunes preferences and uncheck " Disable automatic syncing for iPhone and iPod "
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
It is not possible to manage the feeds inside <URL> . Nevertheless it will synchronize all changes made to feeds within Google Reader . So if you want to rename a feed , open the webpage of Google Reader and go to the preferences . In the prefs , choose the Abonnements tab ( at least this is the German headline ) and rename the feed . If you now head back to the Reeder.app and synchronize your feeds the changes will be reflected and the feed will be renamed . Please remember that this workaround will only work until July 1 , because Google is shutting down the Reader service .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
As far as I know , the only way to do this is to jailbreak and use a Cydia app called <URL> It allows you to configure the behavior of the camera button that appears on the lock screen . You can set any app to be activated by that button . See also the <URL> Settings screen : This hack will probably not work in iOS 5.1 . However , this is unconfirmed . I will update this answer when I do update and jailbreak iOS 5.1 . Besides this hack , there is no other way to change the behavior of the camera button on the lock screen .
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
The saved games are usually stored locally on the device , even if they are synchronised by iCloud . If you sign out of your iTunes account and sign in with his new one , there should n't be any loss of save game data at all . If , however , you want to wipe the iPad and set it up anew for him , you 'll need to backup the save information and restore it to the iPad after the clean install . To do this , I would recommend <URL> ( formerly Disk Aid ) . It 's a great app , available for both OS X and Windows , that lets you drill down into your apps to retrieve data . I would recommend doing a full backup in iTunes first , then use iMazing and save the " Documents " and " Library " folders from each app with a save game , so you have two backups just in case anything goes wrong . Then , once you 've restored the iPad to factory settings and reinstalled the games , just use iMazing again to copy the folders back in to their respective apps .
Yes , under Settings - > Messages - > Receive At - > Caller ID you can set the phone number or email address you want your messages to appear to come from . <URL> .
You can by using an Administrator account and renaming the apps in Finder . LaunchPad will show the changed name accordingly . There also is <URL> , which seems to make renaming items and other operations in LaunchPad possible . Unfortunately , it seems to be discontinued , so try it at your own risk . Finally , if you are comfortable with SQLite databases and SQL , you could manually make the necessary changes in <URL> . I 'd advise you to first back up your database before you start tinkering with it . You can use the built-in command-line client to manipulate this database . You 'll want to find the appropriate records in the table , and update their field .
Nope . When you close the lid , your Mac goes to sleep and stops all current downloads . If you have a downloadmanager , it will pause the downloads , but it will not keep downloading the files . If you would like to work with your lid closed , I suggest you connect an external screen or try software like <URL> , which will keep your Mac awake when the lid is closed . Also , it might be worth trying extention <URL> .
You could convert them all to ePub using <URL> . Add the ePubs to iTunes and they should sync with iBooks . As not all PDFs are formatted the same , some will show the generic cover while some will show the first page when converted to ePub . You can change the cover art for each book individually in iTunes , by selecting the book > Right click > Get Info > Artwork .
click on show all bookmark ( open book ) on top-left of your safari . then search the site you want to remove ( e.g : <URL> ) after that delete it from history when you delete the singe site you never find <URL> when press bl in address bar . search here :
The document window 's close button in TextEdit does just what it 's supposed to do , it closes the document window . It 's not there to close the application , that 's what ⌘ Q is for . So , to answer your question , no you can not quit TextEdit by clicking the close button of a document window by itself , you 'd need to use a third party app to add that functionality .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
end question
start question
Is it possible to use a SD card as virtual memory in OS X Server ?
You probably can use an SD card as a backing store . However : you should not expect a good result . See the up-voted comments .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
No , since the screenshots are simply taken from the pixels shown on-screen or off-screen . However , the screenshots can be turned into vectors using software such as Adobe Illustrator , but the result wo n't be exact .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Well , I bought one and tried . AirPort Utility 5.6.1 complains about incompatible hardware and missing parameters , but apart from that it works :) It 's possible to configure the syslog server .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
I have not tried this , personally , but there are good instructions for doing so with a Tripp Lite ( née Keyspan ) USB-to-Serial adapter and an <URL> . Obviously , you can ignore the Apple II-specific parts of the instructions ( the majority of the article ) and focus on the adapter , the cable , and getting to run .
You can format any drive to FAT16 with Command 1 ) Launch Terminal 2 ) Find The Drive you Want to Format In this case , my disk is disk4 . Your disk will most likely be different ! Be sure to reference the correct disk - you can and will lose your data if you format the wrong drive !!! 3 ) Unmount the disk 4 ) Format the drive After a few moments , your drive will format . 5 ) Remount the drive ( optional ) It will probably show up as on your Desktop . You can rename it here or to do it at the time of formatting use when you format the drive .
Apple makes its own drivers &amp; they are included in the OS updates . The way to be up to date on drivers is to always be running the latest OS . There is debate over whether Apple make the entire driver set themselves , or just take NVidia/AMD 's core code &amp; add their own hardware/OS-specific code to it . The latter seems more plausible to me , but either is just speculation . The end result , though , is that there are rarely issues with Apple graphics drivers &amp; regular software or games ; again speculation , but for games I imagine they write to a pre-defined rule-set , rather than try to constantly be pushing the boundaries . As noted elsewhere , NVidia themselves make OS X drivers for Quadro cards but these are aftermarket cards anyway , not supplied in any Mac build option available directly from Apple . Apple provides core drivers , currently up to OpenGL 4.1 or 3.3 - depending on your card , of course - plus legacy drivers for OGL 2.1 compatibility . Which one you get to use in any particular game etc is up to the writers of that game . Traditionally , if your card has full OpenGL support for the first monitor , it will also have it on the second , unlike many PC cards with ' clipped ' performance on the 2nd monitor . <URL> After comments &amp; other answers here ... NVidia do have their own release for certain Mac GPUs - <URL> However , they are predominantly for the Quadro series of aftermarket cards rather than default cards supplied by Apple . There is also support for some cards which have been legacied by Apple - namely the GeForce 680 , 285 , 120 &amp; 8800 There is mention of beta support for some recent mobile cards , presumably as Apple are dropping legacy support on these in favour of AMD in the current lineup .
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Here is a quick summary of running OS X on non apple hardware with ( and also without ) support from virtualization such as VMware . Possible - yes Supported , licensed , intended - no Legal - you 'll need a lawyer to help with that in your specific location . So , as long as the hardware was Mac you would be probably licensed for Lion and later OS X to run visually no matter what intermediary OS you used as part of the virtualization chain . The how is n't going to be easy since you 'll have to defeat either VMWare 's checks to prevent any Windows person from running OS X or OS X 's checks to ensure it 's running on Mac hardware .
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
A EULA is a contract , not a law . Trouble , if it comes , comes in the form of a lawsuit : " You agreed not to do X ; you did X , harming me , for which I demand $ $ $ as compensation . " That means one party must have been harmed , and would need to know or believe that they have been harmed , and would need make a claim to that effect , and would need to back up that claim , with evidence sufficient to convince a judge ( assuming the other disputes the claim ) . The said party might not know that the EULA had been violated , might not be able to prove a valid contract existed , might not be able to convincingly show harm , or might not feel that it 's worth the trouble to pursue , for example , one person experimenting on their own , vs. a training company running a dozen such VMs off a single user license . How legally binding is a EULA that you have n't actually signed , but was assumed by the licensor based on your having made use of the software ? Here I 'm out of my depth . Shrink-wrap EULAs ( the kind that claim to bind you once you open the package that contains and conceals them ) have been known to have been invalidated . One might conceivably be able to convince a judge that ticking a box that says you agree to some referenced but not necessarily presented terms , does n't constitute agreement . Or not . <URL> ( IANAL , TINLA , etc. )
There are various ( hacky ) ways to do this eg <URL> But I would urge you to install VirtualBox in Mac OS X and then install Windows on that . You can run Windows full screen . It 's going to be very quick and allow you the best of both worlds . Best of all VirtualBox is free and available here <URL>
wrt the issues above : Yes you can . Very effectively . Just be aware that your Django sites wo n't integrate into Server App 's GUI unless you restrict yourself to python 2.7 ; Apache mod_wsgi ; no virtualenvs . Not if you wish to proxy to a wsgi server like Gunicorn , because when you save the Website 's panel , OS X Server will sanitise some of your essential Apache directives and you will lose control over how your Django static files , for example , are served . OS X Server has a particular execution and configuration model in mind and it does a good job of managing websites that accord with that model - but at the cost of flexibility . I know that people successully deploy Django using Apache 's mod_wsgi , but that comes with severe limitations . As in 2 . The section of the plist for your web app in OS X Server 's directory is all-or-nothing . e.g. . You ca n't Include a in the right place for it to have effect . Not with Apache mod_wsgi . No . OS X Server 3.2.1 uses Apache 2.2 . Proxies via UDS was not included in Apache until later . ( Perhaps you could have Apache proxy to Nginx ( via a TCP port ) and , in turn , proxying to Gunicorn via each Django site 's own UDS ... if you thought there was a compelling reason . ) Yes . The approach I took : Put your application 's Apache file in OS X Server 's directory where it will be left alone by the Server app . Forget about trying to use the Server GUI and ' binding ' web apps to sites through its Advanced settings window . A nice idea but ... Use virtualenv ( wrapper ) to set up the different python and package versions for a more future-proof approach ... OS X Server 4 on Yosemite coming up ! Example code : . conf for Django virtual server This is adapted directly from the file that OS X Server generates from its GUI with these main differences : is off by default . prevents the Alias directive from being ignored . I found that , when including this directive using the Apple-recommended web app . plist section , the Included lines were in the wrong place to have the desired effect . your SITENAME and PORT : LaunchDaemon plist for Gunicorn wsgi server your SITENAME ; REVERSED_SITENAME and PORT : Snippet from the OS X Server 's Shows virtualenv paths specified by the virtualenvwrapper environment variables Snippet from the Fabric automation file Shows : The target paths - the directories where your configuration files will end up ; The commands to activate the Django site in the final steps in deployment
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Here is the result of my conversation with Crucial . Given their quality and reliability as manufacturer and supplier , I personally am tempted to spend a little more and source the upgrade kit directly from them . If any problems then should be easy to have it fixed . [ Mark : Hi Can you tell me if CT3309352 - Crucial and CT2K4G3S1067M are the same part numbers for a Crucial upgrade 8GB kit for the MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " or are these two similar but different units produced by Crucial ? Crucial Agent : When you order by advanced search or by motherboard/system information online , you are shown the " external " part number CT3309352 . The part number that you see on your module is the actual module base part number CT2K4G3S1067M . If you order by advanced search or motherboard/system information , the external part number is included in the packing list with your memory module . The modules are exactly the same . They are the same part . And will work in your MacBook Pro mid 2009 13 " . Mark : Thank you . So you are saying depending on the method of search , you will get two different numbers but they are a reference to the identical unit that will be compatible , with above MacBook Pro ? Crucial Agent : For some systems yes . Some times you can look up just by the part number CT2K4G3S1067M and put it in to find it , but it is not always show any results when doing this . Normally only the servers show the actual part number . But this one is listed as compatible for your system and will work . ] So there you go this should help . Cheers Mark
end question
start question
Can I adjust the sensitivity of 3D Touch ?
You can adjust the sensitivity to light , medium , or firm by going to Settings > General > Accessibility > 3D Touch . <URL>
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
Depending what version of SEDarwin you are looking for <URL> is a website that might help you . SEDarwin Downloads If satisfied with the answer to mark it as completed do the above :) :
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
To share your Mac internet connection with your iPad do the following ( <URL> ) On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Bluetooth > Turn Bluetooth On . Turn Bluetooth On on your iPad . Your iPad should show up as a new device in the Bluetooth preferences of your Mac . Click Pair . A six digit number will appear on your Mac . This same number should show up on your iPad . Confirm the connection by tapping " Pair " on your iPad . On your Mac , go to Apple > System Preferences > Sharing Click on " Internet Sharing " from the menu on the left . Do not check the box yet ! Select : Share your connection from " Wi-Fi " Check : To computers using " Bluetooth PAN " Check the " Internet Sharing " box from the menu on the left When asked if you 're sure you want to share your connection , select " Start " share mac internet with iPad At this point , you should be able to get online on your iPad . Obviously , for this to work , your Mac will have to be awake and connected to the internet .
From the Video Support section of the <URL> for the 2016 13 " MacBook Pro : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display at millions of colors and : One display with 5120-by-2880 resolution at 60Hz at over a billion colors Up to two displays with 4096-by-2304 resolution at 60Hz at over a billion colors Thunderbolt 3 digital video output Native DisplayPort output over USB‑C VGA , HDMI , and Thunderbolt 2 output supported using adapters ( sold separately )
This is included by Apple in the latest iOS . You want to list that network as Auto-Login in the preferences for that network . When you are in range , you first have to go to the Wi-Fi Networks sheet in Settings.app , Press the white > with the blue circle and set your preferences for each network : Auto-Login controls whether the log in credentials are saved , so turn that on . You do n't need to enable auto-join , but it will reduce the taps to re-join this saved network if the device sleeps or is really out of range . Turning on Auto-Login makes the device attempt to load www.apple.com and watches as you enter the wifi credentials needed for whatever web site is used to join the wifi network . Many open public sites are automated so do n't worry if it sets itself up without prompting you at this point .
Directly on the iPod , I do n't think so , if your sound settings are maxed . Try Settings > iPod > Volume Limit : Off and Settings > iPod > Sound Check : Off On iTunes , go to the " Info " window of the podcast audio file , and in the Option tab , try to see if you can set the audio volume to 200 % . I know it works on music , but it should also be available for the podcasts .
You can create folders for smart mailboxes , and collapse the folder so that it only takes up one line in your smart mailbox list no matter how many smart mailboxes it contains . Use the menu item Mailbox → New Smart Mailbox Folder ... , give the folder a name , and then drag your special smart mailboxes into the folder . Click the triangle to the left of the folder to collapse it . ( This answer has been written based on experience with Mail version 5.3 . I do not know if later versions have significant differences , but the option appears to be still present . )
Based on mjmt 's excellent info , here 's how to globally disable resizing ( tested in 10.7.4 ) : Log out and log back into your account ( or quit every single app ) to see changes take effect .
I have n't got my iPod Touch with me but this works on the iPhone if you go to Settings - > General - > Auto-Lock and set it to Never . That should work . Let me know if iPod Touch has removed this . Do n't know why they would have !
Sync your iPod Touch configuration back to iTunes and then sync your iPad with iTunes ! For syncing your iPod configuratuon you must only connect it with iTunes . Every time it will be created a backup of the device . After that you connect your iPad ( which has been restored to default factory ) with iTunes . Then you can do the following steps which are described on the <URL> ( Restoring your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch ) .
No , wrong . The home button is no sensor in the meaning of a pressure sensor . For reference see <URL> .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
This solution requires F.lux to be installed ( I assume it 's at ) . Create a text file ( let 's call it ) and put it in ( is under " Macintosh HD " and may be hidden ) . In Terminal , run Now you can run in Terminal ( or in another script ) to change the day temperature . Note that the script restarts F.lux so you may see the display jump to 6500 K for a split second before applying your requested temperature . It 's also possible to schedule this to run at predefined intervals , but that 's beyond the scope of this answer ( and the question ) . If you 'd rather have a launchable app that can toggle between 2 temperatures , Open Terminal and run these commands : Now you 'll see a greater than sign . Paste this : Wait for the prompt to appear , meaning the file was written . Now the finishing touch : Now you can launch the new app . You can customize the LOW and HIGH settings to your liking .
For my iPhone 3G , I used a <URL> . One of my favorite things about it was how it let your finger slide across the screen with way less friction than the original screen does . Even when my iPhone 4 was brand new , it never had the same glide to it that my iPhone 3G had with the Power Support film . I almost never had to wipe the film on my 3G to retain that frictionless feeling ( it was just always there ) , but with my iPhone 4 ( with no film ) there are many times where I would need to wipe the screen to eliminate some of the friction , only to have it return after a few minutes of use . So if you are looking for a way to make your finger glide across the screen , I would definitely recommend using a screen protector . Although , I have n't tried any for the iPhone 4/4S , so I ca n't recommend any specifically .
Somebody heard you , because this is now baked in . Your iCloud account will sync bookmarks , browser history , and even tabs in Yosemite and iOS 8 .
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
You can change this in " System Preferences " - > " Mouse " This change actually happened from <URL> with the introduction of Natural Scrolling to match iOS scrolling behavior where the motion is expected to work on the content - not the scroll indicator - as the two move in opposite directions .
Unfortunately the sensitivity of the tap-to-click feature on the trackpad may not be adjusted through the default system software at present . It may only be turned off altogether . However if you download <URL> it will allow you to adjust tap sensitivity , among other things .
end question
start question
How to download Bootcamp drivers without Bootcamp assistant ?
Yes , It is possible to download the Bootcamp drivers outside of the Bootcamp tool : UPDATE : Apple have published a table of ' which download you need for which model ' at <URL> For WinXP , see robmathers ' answer . The hard way , taken from <URL> is , I think , no longer needed . Download from Apple the <URL> file . Do n't double-click it . Open the index-lion-snowleopard-leopard . merged-1 . sucatalog file in a text editor or word processor . Search for each occurrence -- as at August 2012 there were 6 -- of BootCampESD.pkg . For instance , the one I needed is <URL> Notice in each such URL , the / 041-2011 / or similar / 041-XXXXX / bit of it . Below each such occurrence , notice the URL for a file with the same 041-XXXXX in it and ending in English.dist , e.g. 041-2011 . English.dist Paste the URL for each such English.dist file into your browser and open that url . Here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Search for the Model Identifier for your Mac . For instance MacBookPro5 ,2 or Macmini4 ,1 . For instance the 041-2011 file contains these models : MacBook2 ,1 MacBook3 ,1 MacBook4 ,1 MacBook5 ,1 MacBook5 ,2 MacBook5 ,3 MacBook6 ,1 MacBook7 ,1 MacBookAir1 ,1 MacBookAir2 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,2 MacBookPro2 ,1 MacBookPro2 ,2 MacBookPro3 ,1 MacBookPro4 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,2 MacBookPro5 ,3 MacBookPro5 ,4 MacBookPro5 ,5 MacBookPro6 ,1 MacBookPro6 ,2 MacBookPro7 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,2 MacBookPro8 ,3 MacPro1 ,1 MacPro2 ,1 MacPro3 ,1 MacPro4 ,1 MacPro5 ,1 Macmini2 ,1 Macmini3 ,1 Macmini4 ,1 iMac5 ,1 iMac6 ,1 iMac7 ,1 iMac8 ,1 iMac9 ,1 iMac10 ,1 iMac11 ,1 iMac11 ,2 iMac11 ,3 iMac12 ,1 iMac12 ,2 How do you know your Model Identifier ? Open System Information , and look in the Hardware Overview section . i.e. click Apple menu - > About this Mac - > More Info ... - > Report - > Hardware - > and now read down the Hardware Overview looking for " Model Identifier : " Having found your 041-XXXXX number , download the BootCampESD.pkg url that has your number in it . Again , here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Be patient as it 's probably 600MB . Once your pkg is downloaded , double click it and install to a folder on your hard drive so you know where to find it . The folder contains a nest of folders , the last of which contains a dmg disk image file . Double click to open . Voila . Here are your Windows installer files . Copy them to a USB drive , or a burnable CD . It 's still 660MB or more , so it 's a full CD worth of burning time . Done . You can now proceed with Boot Camp assistant Windows installation . source : <URL> . The page was aimed at people struggling with BootCamp , but either way , it gets you to the BootCamp.pkg file , which contains the drivers . You still need open the OS X installer pkg file to get the the contents out , and to open a DMG file . If you are already in Windows , 7-zip will open it : <URL>
My understanding is if you want to use Bootcamp , you 'll have each drive formatted and available to the software as a two-drive system and not as a one drive - fused hybrid item . <URL> Out of the box , the BootCamp software will see if you have a CoreStorage fusion drive and just put the Windows partition on the spinning HD . There , it wo n't even get to see the SSD nor likely any of the data that exists on a core storage volume ( which is a mix of files stored on the SSD and on the HDD ) . I 'd still get the fusion drive since you can always experiment with the BootCamp default situation , experiment with virtualization , and decide to partition both drives to be stand-alone and run BootCamp to install Windows on the SSD itself . Worst case , you do n't like the experience and take advantage of Apple 's 14 day return policy to get a different Mac if you do n't like your Mini once you 've tried it for a week or so . Here 's what you 'll likely see when you get your Mac . The SSD will be and the DHH will be and the combination of disk0s2 and disk1s2 will be the raw space that fuses into Macintosh HD to be a logical : In system profiler under storage , you 'll see something similar to this :
<URL> says MacPorts can pre-compile ports into binaries so applications need not be compiled when installing on a target system . MacPorts may create two types of binaries : archives and packages . However I found issues with the pkgs a few years ago which might have been fixed and the following ois more how I view macports . If macports does have a binary package which it does in most cases then it behaves exactly as a package install including man pages . The only difference is that you need the command line compiler and the macports sources ( not the sources of the packages ) installed and that the code is in / opt/local . Also due to shared libraries you ca n't just take an executable and run it it probably depends on other shared libraries which macports also provides . As for centralisation you could easily install on one machine and then rsyuc or rdist to all the others ( or other OSX replication mechanisms ) or as macports pointed out set up a local repo .
I do n't thinks so . I 've been using VMWare ( same way of working as Parallels ) for years now without a partition and I 've never suffered any issues . When using virtualisation software without a partition , the software creates a dynamic partition which will grow depending on your needs . So basically , it 's the same . Only the dynamic partition is a virtual one . So , in my opinion , there is no need to waste a predefined partition on your Macintosh HD . Just let the software do it 's job and go with the dynamic partition .
It 's a usability bug . You have to open the App Store , log-in , and only then will the Resume option work . To resume , you can also click " Download " on the OS X Mavericks line in the Purchases table of the App Store . Since there 's no instant feedback as to whether anything is being downloaded unless your connection is very fast , you can use Activity Monitor to check whether network download seems to be saturated . An alternative is iStat Menus ( non-free with 14 day free trial ) . There , you can not only see that data is downloaded , but you can confirm that it is the process that does the downloading .
If it was easy to find all of the system items associated with an application , Migration Assistant would 've done it for you ; generally , if it ca n't figure it out , the easiest solution is to reinstall the software that did n't come over cleanly . There is an alternative , however : clone the entire volume with something like <URL> . This 'll get all of the add-on software fine ( except things like hardware-tied license keys and such ) , but may run into compatibility problems with the new computer . For example , if you clone from an older system to a new one that requires a special build of the latest OS version ( with new drivers &amp; such for the new hardware config ) , you may have to reinstall the OS ( from the disc that came with the new computer ) to get that to work . Pick your poison ...
You can change the text editing bindings for Cocoa apps with DefaultKeyBinding.dict . This will work for almost all applications where the ⌘ command + ← left and ⌘ command + → right worked before . ( The only way it would n't work is if the application creator reimplemented those shortcuts from scratch , which is doubtful as it would be much easier to just use the versions that come free with a textfield . ) If the directory does not exist , create it . Create the file in that directory with contents like this : The refers to the Command key , is Option , is Left , and is Right . The selectors on the right-hand side are the same ones used in the default file , , but switched around to match what you said in your question . Restart an application for the changes to take effect in it . <URL> .
If I recall correctly - perhaps others can help flesh out any missing details - the setup wizard primarily lets you sign in with / sign up for an Apple ID to use for iCloud , it asks you to agree to the iCloud Terms of Service , and it asks about setting up Location Services . All of these can be accessed directly through the Settings app at any time . I do n't believe you will miss any important functionality by missing the wizard , especially if you were previously using your iPhone with iCloud in iOS5 .
Apple iMac and MacBook Pro models did not have UEFI firmware and the ability to boot Windows installers from USB flash drives until the 2012 model year . Your firmware does not have the ability to boot from a USB flash drive Windows installer . You should install Windows using your DVD drive . If you no longer have a DVD drive , you may still be able to install using the Windows 8 iso file . This have been done successfully using Windows 7 on a 2010 15 " macbook pro ( MBP6 ,1 ) . If you wish , I could update the procedure for Windows 8 . ( Or are you installing 8.1 ? ) . Anyway , go <URL> for more information . To install directly using the GPT partitioning table is only recommended if your computer has a UEFI . Your model does not . Most people who succeeded usually have a problems with one or more drives not working properly . There is no advantage in trying . Installing using the MBR partitioning table will work without any problems . You do n't have to use BootCamp . Most who don , ' t , want something different than the default ; such as an extra NTFS or ExFat partition . The procedure depends on what you have in mind . Updated Procedure for Installing Windows 8.1 Using VirtualBox The original steps are posted <URL> . Steps 1-14 . No change Steps 15-17 . Substitute Windows 8.1 for Windows 7 . Step 18 . No change Step 19 . Images slightly different , but not worth updating . Step 20 . The rest the virtual machine installation will be repeated again after booting Windows on the physical machine . For most questions , you can use the default answers . Use the provided answers below when the following windows first appear . When asked a second time , you can provide your own answers . ( Hint : For a better view , click on the image or open in a new window . ) When the following window appears , enter a name for the computer . You will enter this same name later . I used the name Shark . Choose any name you like . <URL> When the window below appears , choose Customize . <URL> VirtualBox creates a virtual Public network for your virtual machine . Therefore I would click on " No " in the window shown below . <URL> To be safe , I would not let any updates download or install until after the Boot Camp Support Software ( the drivers ) is installed . Therefore , when the window below appears , I would choose " Do n't set up Windows Update ( not recommended ) " . <URL> When the window below appears , choose " Create a new account " . <URL> Select " Sign in without a Microsoft account " , when the window below appears . <URL> Enter a temporary user name , password and password hint , in the window shown below . You can delete or disable this account later . <URL> Step 21 . Replace From the Start Menu , select " Computer " to open a window containing the hard disk drives and devices with removable storage . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " File Explorer " to open a window containing the devices and drives . The first image will be slightly different . Replace Select " Start Menu → All Programs → Accessories " , then right click on " Command Prompt " and select " Run as administrator " , as shown in the image below . with Right click on the Start Menu and select " Command Prompt ( Admin ) " . Disregard the second image . The Desktop shown in the third image will be different . Step 22 . Replace Windows Explorer with File Explorer . Step 23 . Same instructions . Replace image with the following . This step takes a long time to complete . <URL> Step 24-26 . No changes .
I use RDC all the time and I know a few things about it . I have a similar setup as you , Apple based server but with a windows 8 partition . I RDC into the partition from another Mac and it all works fine . Here are a couple links that should help you with the setup on your Windows . <URL> and <URL> . This should help you get up and running . The setup I have on the Mac is the Domain is the internal IP that you will get from your Windows and obviously the Username and password ... are the username and password to your Windows . Hope I have n't been too blunt , but feel free to ask for help . Nick
Apple <URL> : Boot Camp : Remove Windows from your Mac How you remove Windows from your Mac depends on whether you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions or one that has a single partition . Important : Back up all important data stored on your Windows partition . If you installed Windows on a disk that has multiple partitions Start up your Mac in OS X. Quit all open apps and log out any other users . Open Boot Camp Assistant , then click Continue . Select " Remove Windows 7 or later version , " then click Continue . Do one of the following : If your Mac has a single internal disk , click Restore . If your Mac has multiple internal disks , select the Windows disk , select " Restore disk to a single OS X partition , " then click Continue . If you installed Windows on a disk that has a single partition Start up your Mac in OS X. Open Disk Utility , located in the Other folder in Launchpad . Select the Windows disk , click Erase , choose the Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) > format , then click the Erase button .
Are you sure you need to have a software solution within Windows ? Many HDTVs let you adjust current display settings to disable the overscan . See <URL> . Quote : If you do n't see every pixel you should see , you 're not viewing a true 1920 by 1080 progressive-scan picture . The name of the viewing mode differs from brand to brand , but it 's commonly called Dot-by-Dot , Point-to-Point , Just , or simply Overscan Off . To add to that , on my own HDTV , choosing " Studio " under the Aspect setting has the effect of eliminating the overscan . I 've also seen it called simply " PC " on another TV , and " Just Scan " on another . Check your HDTV 's settings ... chances are it has something like this and you are n't aware of it . Though , admittedly there are some HDTVs without such a capability ( sadly ) and for these you 'll need to find a solution that lets you reduce the resolution output to the HDTV . Update : I found the following article explains well both the issue and troubleshooting steps : <URL> . Plus : some folks have successfully replaced the Apple video drivers in their Bootcamp Windows with ATI drivers , in order to access settings to compensate for the HDTV overscan . See this blog post : <URL> . Got ATI video in your Mac ? Worth a shot perhaps , if you do . Take a backup before messing with drivers , of course .
Mac OS X home and end keys do not function the same way as they do on other systems . On Mac , the Home and End keys go to the top and bottom of a document , instead of to the beginning or end of a line . Check out this <URL> article which shows how to remap the functionality of the home and end keys to make them perform like they do on other systems .
Nope , this is not possible . Target display mode only works if both machine are in macOS , as mentioned in the Apple KB article <URL> . If your iMac is currently started up in Windows , it wo n't enter Target Display Mode . Target Display Mode is n't supported in Boot Camp .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
Boot Camp Assistant.app - among other apps in the Utilities folder - is protected by System Integrity Protection as outlined <URL> . By disabling SIP you will be able to <URL> . So boot to Recovery Mode by pressing cmdR while booting . Open Terminal.app ( menubar - > Utilites - > Terminal ) Enter Reboot your Mac Edit the file / Applications/Utilities/Boot Camp Assistant.app / Contents/Info . plist Reboot again to Recovery Mode and enable SIP again : Reboot your Mac You should also be able to edit the file directly after booting to Recovery Mode without disabling SIP : You 'd have to make notes how and what to add though because you may have no real internet access . Even if you can create a USB Windows installer , this does not necessarily mean that you can boot your Mac to Windows using this flash drive .
Get safari download manager from cydia so that you can download it and ifile which lets you play it .
In iPhoto , turn Photo Stream off then on . Go to Preferences > Photo Stream . Uncheck " Enable Photo Stream " . Close the preferences window . Click Photo Stream in the left-hand navigation pane and confirm there are no photos . Turn Photo Stream back on in preferences ( check " Enable Photo Stream " ) . After a few seconds , iPhoto will start to download all the photos again . Depending on the number of photos , and your bandwidth , it may take awhile .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
You can do an Archive &amp; Install which will reinstall OS X but keep your files . Do n't forget to make a backup before you reinstall in case something goes wrong . Boot with ⌘ R to enter the Recovery HD . Choose Reinstall OS X. Follow the instructions .
end question
start question
AppleTV : can I watch movies from third parties ?
As seen on Apple website , the supported video formats are : H. 264 video up to 720p , 30 frames per second , Main Profile level 3.1 with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps per channel , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats MPEG-4 video , up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats Motion JPEG ( M-JPEG ) up to 35 Mbps , 1280 by 720 pixels , 30 frames per second , audio in ulaw , PCM stereo audio in . avi file format So in order to play your DivX movies you have either to transcode them into a supported format using tools like <URL> , or to jailbreak it so it will support <URL> . In my humble opinion , Apple TV is the best device for streaming music , listening/watching podcasts , streaming your photo libraries from your mac to your TV , and if you are an iTunes store fanatic then buying/renting movies from the iTunes store . If your main interest is watching divx/mkv 's , then I would suggest you to look for something else .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
Flash does not run on any version of the iPhone . You can try using a program like <URL> which will live transcode your DiVX files into a format the iPhone will play back using your computer . As for playing it natively on your iPhone , VLC ( Video Lan Client ) is working on a native client but it 's not available in the App Store yet .
You have to use a single apple id in iTunes homesharing on all devices that you want on your appleTV BUT This does not mean that you ca n't buy anything anymore with your personal apple ID everything you buy will still be placed in your library and will be shared on the ' family ' apple ID account <URL>
There 's no way to turn the touch input off temporarily , but you can prevent the Apple Watch from stopping workouts early . When you start a workout just go to the watch face the way you normally would , the Workout will run in the background and ca n't be stopped until you go back to the app and it stop it yourself . It 's not perfect , as you ca n't see your live progress , but it still works .
Settings -- > General -- > keyboard ----- > Keyboards -- > You 'll see ENGLISH and EMOJI . On the top right corner is the word EDIT . Press EDIT , and then swipe delete to remove the EMOJI keyboard .
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
iMore provides a <URL> to restore an old backup onto a new watch that I have summarized below . The first step is to unpair the old watch from your phone . As part of that , a backup of your watch 's information and settings will be created on the phone . Next , pair your new watch following the normal procedures - launch the Apple Watch app , tap Start Pairing , and align the watch in the viewfinder . On the following screen it will state " Your Apple Watch Is Paired . " From here , tap on Restore from Backup , and you should be given the option of the backup you made when unpairing the old watch . Tap on that . You will then need to agree with the terms and conditions , as well as enter your Apple ID username and password . Tap through the remaining screens of setting options , including a passcode , and finally it will begin the process of restoring your backup , which may take several minutes . Once the restore is complete , you will have your new watch set up with all your settings and data .
As far as I know AppleTV has no capabilities for this . What I 've done is simply to take a photo of the TV screen .
start Contacts on your Mac and export/archive all contacts ( as a backup ) go to System Preferences - > iCloud and disable syncing of contacts ( and anything else you do n't want to sync to iCloud ) log in into iCloud.com directly and delete any contacts stored there
If your hardware supports it , it will work . My mid-2010 mini does n't , but my son 's mid-2011 mini does support it . He plays games on the Apple TV + big-screen TV . He even brings his Bluetooth keyboard and mouse into the TV room , and they 're close enough to the Mac mini to work . Performance is NOT great on the high-framerate FPS kind of games , but should be good for Minecraft . Even when your HW does not support the built-in mirroring , there are some third-party SW that enables it . Try AirParrot , Beamer , and Bruce ( no affiliation ) .
This may be the built in " undocumented " to non-developers feature of Lion called Automatic Termination that is causing Xcode to quit when you do n't want it to . As noted in " <URL> " Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination .
To ensure that any new Contacts I created went into the " From My Mac " group , I changed the " Default Account " for Contacts [ in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars ] from " Exchange " to " From My Mac " . There is no functionality to manage Contact Group membership on the iPhone in iOS 5.1 . To move the Contacts from Outlook to " From My Mac " , I found those contacts in Outlook ( on my PC ) , and emailed a Vcard / . vcf file ( In Outlook , right-click the Contact , choose " Foward Contact " , then choose " As a Business Card " ) to my personal email address . I then opened those Vcards on the iPhone through Mail , and saved as new Contacts . ( They went to the correct group because I 'd made change in Settings , above . ) Last , I deleted those contacts from Outlook , so that they would n't be dupes . See also <URL> .
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
Plex Media Server offers " sync " functionality to devices if you have a Plex Pass subscription ( starts at $ 3.99 / month , less per month for longer subscription periods ) . You initiate the sync either from the Plex web app or device by selecting movie ( s ) to sync , and it then transcodes your selected media into a format appropriate for iPad . You then open the iOS app to download it directly to the device . See <URL> for a run-through . For adding torrents , the best solution I 've found is to use Dropbox . If you do n't already have a Dropbox account , <URL> . Download the <URL> onto your server . In the Mac menu bar , a new icon of an open box will appear . Tap on that , then tap on the folder icon to the left to open the Dropbox folder . Here , create a folder called " torrents " ( or whatever you like ) . In Transmission , go to Preferences > Transfers and set the Auto Add directory to the Dropbox directory you just created , which will be stored locally at / Users/yourusername/Dropbox / torrents / or whatever you called it . On the iPad , install the Dropbox client . Next time you want to add a torrent , act as if you 're downloading it to the iPad . Since you ca n't actually download files to the iPad , the screen will change to show the filename , and will have a " Open in Dropbox " link at the top-right . Tap on that , then select the torrents folder you created in Dropbox . Tap Save at the upper right . After a few seconds , the file will sync to Dropbox from the iPad , then from Dropbox to your server . Since Transmission is watching the directory where it will appear on your server , it will be picked up and automatically added . There 's a few steps involved in setting this workflow up , but once done , it 's maintenance-free .
You can only use Made For iPhone ( MFi ) controllers with the Apple TV at the moment .
Check this : <URL> , it is not very recent , but should work for 3GS . The model number can also be found in Settings - > General - > About . This way you should be able to check if it is AT&amp;T or Rogers
They appear to be part of the workflow , which means they would be saved wherever the workflow file is saved . This varies , depending on what kind of workflow you are creating . Services are saved in ~ / Library/Services Folder Actions are saved in ~ / Library/Workflow/Applications / Folder Actions Applications and Workflows are saved wherever the user saves them .
end question
start question
when the GPS is enabled , does it drain battery ?
When you give an app permission to use your location , in other words enable GPS for it , the app may or may not use it . Some apps use it briefly to get a fix once each time you start the app , some apps do n't use it until you perform a certain action in them , others use it whenever the app is open , and some even continue to use it after you 've closed the app - for instance if you 're doing turn-by-turn directions in the background . To know if an app is actively using the GPS , and thus draining the battery faster than normal , is to look in the status bar next to the clock . If there 's a little white arrow , then an app ( probably the one you 've got open right now ) is actively using the GPS . If you do n't have an app open , and the arrow appears , you can find out which app is using the GPS by going to the app , selecting and going down the list of apps . For each app there 's the app name , and then a selector that determines whether that app is allowed to use the GPS . Scroll down that list and look for a little arrow between the app and the selector . If any app is using the GPS right now , it will show up as an arrow next to the app name . The color and fill of the arrow provide additional information , which you can find out about here : <URL> . That question also gives a screeshot of the screen with an arrow showing , so you can get an idea of what to look for when you go through your list of apps . It 's for the iPad , but the iPhone is very similar in design . If an app is using GPS and you do n't want it to , change the selector to and it will stop using the GPS and draining your battery .
' Bird ' is part of the iCloud structure . You would have a large cache if there are pending documents to upload or process . Over time , com.apple.bird cache is generally kept cleaner than your singing . Mine is 400 KB [ that 's K , not even M ] You can diagnose this with - which has a diagnose command and a log command . Unless you are sure you have a bug in the cache - I would n't delete the files as they might cause you at best - another upload of the original content and at worst - cause errors or data loss of iCloud backed documents . With that large a cache you should be able to dump and then monitor whatever categories/classes of data have the most size . It 's exceptionally verbose and you might not want to spend time learning what it does - but the data is quite helpful in determining what 's actually happening and gives you an option before reaching out to AppleCare or another support tech in cases where you do n't see the cache clearing itself over time .
From <URL> : Home &amp; Lock Screen . This indicates that the Home screen or Lock screen was displayed on your device . For example , the display was awakened by pressing the Home button or by a notification . If an app frequently wakes your display with notifications , you can turn off push notifications for the app in Settings > Notifications . Tap App and set Allow Notifications to Off .
Usually 4 to 5 hours for me to recharge the 2 AA batteries . Basically I recharge the batteries when its power is lower than 10 % .
I tried installing Avast and adding this to crontab : The average CPU use ( for one core ) after about a day was about 1.5 % , but I 'll keep it running for a few more days or weeks . <URL> displays CPU power consumption in Sensors > CPU Package Total . Approximate CPU use and power consumption on my iMac : 5 % : 5W 100 % : 13W 400 % : 25W So 1 percentage point increase in CPU use ( for one core ) from being near-idle might correspond to 1-2 % increase in CPU power consumption . The ratio might be higher for laptops though . And the percentage change in total power consumption depends on the power consumption of displays and other components . Idle power consumptions with display off or at maximum brightness : 11-inch MacBook Air : 4.7 W , 9.0 W 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina Display : 5.3 W , 17.6 W 21.5-inch iMac : 14.1 W , 41.8 W
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
Discharging the battery once in a while ( every few Months ) is not a must but does help calibrating , for the system to be more accurate waring you on low levels . Over time charging and discharging creates a more inaccuracy of the actual level . For example if you plug in at 40 % , unplug at 80 % and so on . The reason is that the system uses the last known battery charge to produce the % , thus assumes the battery charge level . However if the battery was not discharged for long time , the remaining charge could be wrong ( due to batter aging ) . Discharging to not less than 20 % once in a while helps the accuracy . Since there is a opposite effect ( to frequent full discharge ) will shorten the battery life , you should only do this every few months .
Yes this does matter depending on the sata speed of your hdd , ssd and the laptop . My 2011 MacBook Pro supports 6 Gb/s to the original hdd and 3 to the Optical drive . My ssd supports 6 Gb/s and my original hdd supports 3 gb/s . Obviously , I did not put the ssd in the optical bay caddy ( which would have been less work ) . Instead , I moved the original hdd to the caddy an placed the ssd where the hdd originally used to be . This way , my ssd runs at 6gb/s and my hdd ( still ) at 3 Gb/s . Good luck !
It means either when the device is unable to determine if a message has been delivered over the iMessage transport successfully . When a successful delivery occurs you see a little ' Delivered ' notification below the message in the history , and after a period you should have the option to resend as an SMS or the recipient has no registration with the iMessage server to indicate that it could use the iMessage transport and will use SMS instead .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
When you give an app permission to use your location , in other words enable GPS for it , the app may or may not use it . Some apps use it briefly to get a fix once each time you start the app , some apps do n't use it until you perform a certain action in them , others use it whenever the app is open , and some even continue to use it after you 've closed the app - for instance if you 're doing turn-by-turn directions in the background . To know if an app is actively using the GPS , and thus draining the battery faster than normal , is to look in the status bar next to the clock . If there 's a little white arrow , then an app ( probably the one you 've got open right now ) is actively using the GPS . If you do n't have an app open , and the arrow appears , you can find out which app is using the GPS by going to the app , selecting and going down the list of apps . For each app there 's the app name , and then a selector that determines whether that app is allowed to use the GPS . Scroll down that list and look for a little arrow between the app and the selector . If any app is using the GPS right now , it will show up as an arrow next to the app name . The color and fill of the arrow provide additional information , which you can find out about here : <URL> . That question also gives a screeshot of the screen with an arrow showing , so you can get an idea of what to look for when you go through your list of apps . It 's for the iPad , but the iPhone is very similar in design . If an app is using GPS and you do n't want it to , change the selector to and it will stop using the GPS and draining your battery .
Yes - triggering a location update does use more battery than if the phone were simply idle and chatting from time to time with cell towers to be ready to receive a notification , email or phone call . No - the high power location drain when you have a GPS mapping program running in the foreground is n't what happens when you use the web site to request one location update . As long as you are not constantly sending a ping noise or managing to hammer the find my phone interface with a non-stop stream of requests , the phone will be quite efficient with the screen off , a quick location update and then it will go back to idle power and consume no more power than if it were sitting in your pocket . Think of the function as this : You log into find my phone ( web or another iOS device ) and the service looks up all your devices and sends one refresh to each . The device gets a notification over either of the connections it always attempts to keep open to Apple via both Wi-Fi and cellular data channels . Apple says - " hey - figure out where you are and then report back " Your phone does it 's location dance as best it can with available GPS , cell tower , and Wi-Fi and then tells Apple where it thinks it might be ( and how accurate a fix it thinks it has achieved ) . Apple says thanks and your phone goes back to being idle ( presumably powering down GPS once not recently requested ) . You then see that location update on your display . Apple caches the data , so you will see the last known location for quite a while before it goes to " location unknown " over a period of hours and the last fix becomes stale .
It 's hard to tell with this new product , that is really a normal battery charger . Rechargeable batteries should charge all the way to 100 % especially when they are new . If you 're not getting a full charge , try depleting them all and fully charge them , see if that works . Otherwise , batteries may be defective or it could be a mouse/software misinterpretation .
There is almost no value in a user trying to " calibrate " a unibody MacBook 's internal battery since it has multiple cells and the system handles this continually . Older MacBook that were non-unibody construction with removable batteries did benefit periodic calibration runs to update the Mac 's estimation of time remaining . Calibration did n't actually give you more power , just a more accurate estimate of the time remaining before that battery needs a recharge . The canonical reference for which models can benefit from calibration is <URL> . A nice primer on battery technology in general is <URL> site . For more technical data , I like reading at the <URL> site . If you seek to extend the time between when you buy a battery ( or computer ) and the time when it needs to be replaced three things will help prolong the useful life of your battery . Discharging it until the Mac sleeps at least once every month or two . Not letting it drain totally for months . Avoid exceeding the re-charge cycles ( new models typically are rated for 5 years and 1000 equivalent charge cycles ) . Avoid storage in very hot temperatures and use ( charging / discharge ) in hot temperatures . In the end , you might pay between $ 100 and $ 150 for a new battery , but something that happens once every 3 to 4 years , Apple 's new battery technology is far better than the old days where heavy users needed a new battery yearly and failures were far more common .
It appears to be the case that Apple will replace the top case assembly if you want to replace your battery . As first reported by Treehugger , which received a copy of an Apple internal service document for the " Mid-2012 " 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro , Apple informs its own service personnel that " batteries must be replaced with the top case assembly " and that " the battery alone is not a replaceable part . " EveryMac.com also has been provided with copies of the internal service documents for subsequent 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro models and although there are internal differences , the battery design effectively is the same . Additionally , Apple warns its own technicians that " batteries should not be separated from the top case assembly for any reason , " as attempting to do so could puncture the battery and lead to fire or injury . Do not attempt to pry the battery apart from the top case . Source : <URL> According to <URL> , it will cost local repair shops around $ 500 to source the top case assembly to replace the battery .
There are two approaches that could lead to less power consumption : a display that is enabled to have a dedicated greyscale mode ; less pixels to be in charge of software that automatically renders " less " if you tell it not to render any colors Whilst the first is definitely not applicable as the iPhone features an LCD screen , the latter is something I once inspected . I made an iPhone draw a couple of dozen lines per second and then print how many it could render in 30 seconds . Having the accessibility feature enabled I hoped for a higher score in my little " benchmark " . However , it resulted in no improvement at all . Actually the iPhone was slower having grayscale activated . It might be misleading but a lower benchmark , here , indicates more CPU cycles , hence more power consumption . So unless the iPhone actually caps CPU power on grayscale mode ( which I doubt ) your iPhone consumes even more power in grayscale more . This is probably due to the fact that it first renders the view in color , then caches it and puts the gray-filter on it . Side fact : on iOS9 you will have a " low power mode " available for your iPhone . I already use iOS9 on my main device on a daily basis and the power saving functionality is awesome ! My iPhone survived a 6-day music festival whilst taking pictures , checking mail in the mornings and sometimes calling people . So do n't worry about it too much , in a few weeks your iPhone will last surprisingly long .
Leaving the LTE on will not drain your battery life . The data modem in your phone ( a Qualcomm MDM9615M ) is a chip that handles LTE and 3G signals . Therefore , your phone is not using a 3G chip and then draining your battery by having a second chip search for a LTE signal .
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
end question
start question
How can I do a full text search of plaintext files in my DropBox folder ?
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
- files were files used by developers in the process of application development for OS X 10.2 . They contain xml-strings -- try editing the file in TextEdit or TextWrangler , you should see an XML-structure , or see <URL> . It ca n't really be run alone , it 's used to tell packaging applications how to pack the application into a real application . To put it short , it can be used with the application <URL> : ( . packproj ) : Creates a project file for use with Iceberg . This allows you to use Iceberg to edit package options before creating the actual package . Do note that this is ancient code , and may not work ( supposed to work from OS X 10.2 and up ) .
You can use a tool like <URL> to map various functions to the buttons on your generic 6-button mouse .
You can use <URL> , it syncs with Dropbox ( you can choose which folder to sync ) and it let you choose which file extensions you want to sync .
Wait until Lion 's release and then you could sort by " date added " <URL>
Apple has released a fix for this . In Settings > Music it lets you toggle between showing playlist songs in library or not .
You can use a shell script like this : skips a file when a file with the same name exists in the target .
this might help : <URL> long story short . Update dropbox is what they say . worked for me , so should work for you :)
It does work in Lion , the way you tried it . In Snow-Leopard you have to select the text itself to change the font ( size ) by first clicking/selecting the text-field to get the selection rectangle ( for re-sizing or moving - as you described ) and then click a second time on your text to select all the characters . Now your text should be selected ( visible by the highlighting ) and you will be able to change the font-size in the Text Properties field . Edit 2012-01-04 : I could reproduce the problem described and also found a simple solution . If you open your pdf and re-arrange pages or rotate them and then try to change the formating of existing text fields it ( sometimes ) fails . The solution/fix is to click the window ( menu - ) bar of the " Fonts " window , then click on your text field again and finally chose the new font variant → and it will be applied :D
With the latest iOS 7 , you can place Newsstand in a folder without having to buy apps or jailbreak your device .
AFIK the Do Not Disturb does not have setting to let Text Messages through like phone calls . You can join the large group asking Apple to do it <URL>
<URL> allows adding a column for either short paths or absolute paths . See also <URL> .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
Is n't it how it 's working already ? I just tried drag 'n' dropping a folder on the Textmate icon , it opens in " project mode " , then I added a file to the folder , which Textmate did too , when gaining focus . And deleting the file and focusing Textmate made it disappear from the project pane .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
<URL> can do this . Another choice would be <URL> but I think Transmit is the better option ( I own both and am affiliated with neither ) . There are demos of both programs available , so you can try both . Note that Transmit is sold both through the Mac App Store and directly the developer ( Panic ) . You would be better off buying it from Panic directly because of the impending sandboxing rules for the Mac App Store .
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
Yes , in both the iBooks and Kindle apps , you can search the full text ( excluding text in images ) of the book you are currently reading . Here 's how to do that in each app : iBooks app While reading a book , tap the screen . A magnifying glass icon becomes visible in the top right , along with other controls . Clicking the magnifying glass icon brings up a search box . After entering your search term in the box , iBooks presents a list of results from the current book , underneath the search box . Kindle app Similarly , while reading a book , tap the screen . At the bottom a magnifying glass icon will become visible . It works much like the iBooks search feature . What about searching across all books ? If you wanted to know whether you can enter a search term at the top-level of these apps and have them search across all books stored in the app : No , currently neither iBooks nor the Kindle app have such a feature . However , I have seen this capability on the Kindle device itself -- I own a Kindle keyboard model and there is a " search my items " option available that will search all books on the device for a given term .
<URL> Goes over all the attributes spotlight has , and it looks like you could possibly create a smart folder with any of these attributes , unfortunately none of them mention locked file status . will give you a list of all the files in a folder which are locked or unchangeable , but only in the terminal .
end question
start question
What is the software different between Apple Lisa and first Macintosh ?
I 'm pretty sure Apple had a mouse for the Apple II line although I 'm not sure if it overlapped with the Lisa and Mac . The first Lisa had its own operating system which used an early version of Bill Atkinson 's quickdraw routines , had overlapping windows , pull down menus although if memory serves it had a document model more like OpenDoc than what the Mac had a bit later . After the Mac came out in 1984 the Lisa was rebranded " Macintosh XL " and it used an early version of the Macintosh OS until it was phased out . In short , the Lisa was the bridge between the ideas that Jobs , Atkinson and others had seen at Xerox PARC and the Mac . Here 's an excellent history : <URL>
The video out on MacBook Pro uses a Displayport / Thunderbolt port . To hook up to a VGA or DVI cable , you need an adapter . Alternatively you could buy a cable which has Displayport on one end and DVI or VGA on the other . The adapters do n't come as standard so you 'll need to buy one in an Apple store , online or use a third-party cable .
I ended up testing this myself . Syncing content works Restoring the device works I have n't exhaustively tested everything possible , but I did write up what I have tested in more detail on my blog . <URL>
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
Taken from my answer at <URL> : Mac OS X Memory Jargon : Wired : This refers to kernel code and such . Memory that should not ever be moved out of the RAM . Also know as resident memory . Shared : Memory that is shared between two or more processes . Both processes would show this amount of memory so it can be a bit misleading as to how much memory is actually in use . Real : This is the " real " memory usage for an application as reported by task_info ( ) - a rough count of the number of physical pages that the current process has . ( RSIZE ) Private : This is memory that a process is using solely on it 's own that is used in Resident memory . ( RPRVT ) Virtual : The total amount of address space in the process that 's mapped to anything - whether that 's an arbitrarily large space for variables or anything - it does not equate to actual VM use . ( VSIZE ) Active : Memory currently labelled as active and is used RAM . Inactive : " Inactive memory is no longer being used and has been cached to disk . It will remain in RAM until another application needs the space . Leaving this information in RAM is to your advantage if you ( or a client of your computer ) come back to it later . " - Mac OS X Help Free : The amount of RAM actually available without any data . The best documentation I know of ( and have been able to find in followup research ) is Apple 's own <URL> article on their developer website . Other worthwhile sources : Darwin-dev mailing list : [ <URL> ] , [ <URL> ] and an old article on <URL> . Additionally Mike Ash has posted a good layman 's introduction on his <URL>
Their first product was the <URL> computer , hand-built by Steve Wozniak and first demonstrated in 1976 . You 'll find plenty of details about Apple 's early years in <URL> of the Apple , Inc <URL> .
Maybe you have authorized Macs you no longer have . Go to your account in iTunes , under Apple ID Overview you can see how many computers you have authorized and ( once a year ) you can deauthorize all , after that you should be able to reauthorize your Macs . ( This does not affect iOS devices , as they do not count towards your 5 devices limit )
I believe I figured out the difference : Dragging : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Depending on the amount of time that has passed , moving the mouse will do one of the following : Brief delay : moving the mouse continues the dragging , essentially behaving the exact same way as drag lock . The cycle is then repeated once you release your finger . Longer delay : dragging is stopped . Dragging &amp; Drag Lock : Double tap and hold to begin dragging . Release the mouse . Moving the mouse will continue dragging . Tap once to stop the dragging . It 's that brief delay that was throwing me off . There does n't seem to be any way to customize the length of this delay . One thing that does help , though , is figuring out exactly how long this delay is . One method for figuring this out is the following : Drag an icon from the dock a tiny bit so that if you were to release it , it would n't be deleted . Release the mouse . Observe how long it takes for the icon to move back to its place . That is the exact amount of minimum time that you should wait when you are finished dragging something .
I 'm pretty sure Apple had a mouse for the Apple II line although I 'm not sure if it overlapped with the Lisa and Mac . The first Lisa had its own operating system which used an early version of Bill Atkinson 's quickdraw routines , had overlapping windows , pull down menus although if memory serves it had a document model more like OpenDoc than what the Mac had a bit later . After the Mac came out in 1984 the Lisa was rebranded " Macintosh XL " and it used an early version of the Macintosh OS until it was phased out . In short , the Lisa was the bridge between the ideas that Jobs , Atkinson and others had seen at Xerox PARC and the Mac . Here 's an excellent history : <URL>
No , System 1.0 is not open source and not in the public domain . Apple provided it with the purchase of a Macintosh . The system software was not available for separate purchase . History With MacOS 1.0 you are probably referring to the first version of Apple 's operating system . In 1984 , with the release of the first Macintosh ( 128K ) , the system was actually not called MacOS but was just Mac System Software . Apple has called it MacOS since version 7.6 . You can read ( and learn ) a lot about it <URL> . Emulation About an emulator of the first Mac system . There is one you can use : <URL> It will require <URL> to run vMac and finally <URL> Unzip everything , start the mini vMac , it will load the ROM and you 'll get a blinking floppy with a question mark because it could n't find the system . To solve it just drag the system image over vMac and the system will start !
The ESP is normally used for the boot loader on ' normal ' EFI systems , however on a Mac the ESP is not -- it is usually empty , but has been used as a staging area for firmware updates . A Mac will initially look in the ESP for anything to boot from , but if it is empty or non-existant , it will look for the root file system to boot from .
No . The signatures were really only in the 128K . Each time some the case saw some minor modification , some of the signatures would be cut off in part or in whole . The 512K Mac contained some of the signatures , and the Macintosh Plus contained a few less . At some point , the signatures disappeared entirely . The Macintosh Classic was an entirely new case design , though , six years later . There were no signatures on it . Also , not being fully satisfied , I found a picture : <URL>
A multi-output device allows you to mirror audio output to multiple devices at the same time . An aggregate device allows you to tie multiple devices together to appear as one , single , device with more I/O than any one single device has . Aggregation has a lot of applications in music production where you might want to use more than one audio capture device at the same time from Logic Audio or GarageBand . To do this , you aggregate devices in to one new , virtual device and access the single device from within Logic . Some examples might help illustrate the difference . Example 1 : Multi-Output Device Let 's say I wanted to play music in iTunes and have the audio go to my iMac 's built-in speakers and my AppleTV via AirPlay at the same time . How would I do this ? I would create a new , multi-output device . Assign both my Built-In Output and AirPlay sources to this device and then select it as my output device for audio on my iMac . Now audio played in iTunes goes to both my iMac 's speakers and my AppleTV at the same time -- it 's mirrored . Example 1 : Aggregate Device Let 's say I wanted to record 4 streams of mono audio at the same time but all I have are two audio input devices that each have 2 mono streams on them ( they 're basically stereo capture devices ) . I could create an aggregate device out of the two devices ( assuming their drivers support aggregation in OS X ) and use this new , aggregate device in GarageBand or Logic and now , instead of seeing 2 channels of input , I 'd see 4 channels of input and the devices would function as one , bigger " virtual device " . It works in a similar fashion for their outputs . They all act as independent outputs on one virtual device .
The standard way of approaching these terms is to say that an " application " is a specific , static program on storage . It 's some piece of code stored on a hard drive , a CD-ROM or elsewhere . A " process " on the other hand is a specific instance of a running program . I.e. it is registered by the operating system as executing or being able to execute whenever the operating system feels like it . If you take for example Calculator.app , it is a single application . However you can have multiple Calculator processes if you start the program multiple times . As chananelb wrote , it is also possible to have processes which are not " just " ordinary applications that have been started up . That could be for example kernel processes , or simply ordinary processes spawning up subprocesses to do specific tasks . Regarding services , I chananelb 's answer leads you in the wrong direction . His answer tells you about what is called a " Service " in Mac OS X. . . but you asked about what is called a " Service " in Windows . The counterpart to a Windows Service is a Daemon on Mac OS X ( and other Unix-derived systems ) . Daemons are normally categorized by running in the " background " , i.e. without direct user interaction through a graphical or non-graphical user interface . The distinction is a bit blurry though , as a Daemon might for example have a web interface for user interaction . Daemons on Mac OS X are controlled by the launchd program , which is responsible for for example starting up daemons on boot , and letting the user start and stop daemons at request .
If you have three podcasts as follows : A - downloaded , synced and played B - downloaded , synced and not played C - newly downloaded , never synced , and not played When choosing " all unplayed " , podcasts B &amp; C will by synced . A will be removed from the iDevice When choosing " all new " , only C will be synced . A &amp; B will be removed from the iDevice
iWork for Mac , at the time of writing of this post , has not been updated to work with iCloud . Last version on the App Store came out in July , 20th , and does not have iCloud integration . Meanwhile , you can upload and download documents from <URL> , which is a web interface to iCloud . The process is described in <URL> .
First off he 's wrong on all levels . The <URL> is $ 29 , the <URL> is $ 500 . A standard <URL> is $ 700 base . <URL> is $ 1000 base . Second , the distributions are pretty much identical . The difference is that the Server Version ships the server applications , tools , and processes . Postfix , Dovecot , Jabberd2 , OpenLDAP , the entirety of the / Applications/Server directory , and some of the things in / Applications/Utilites like XSan management and the RAID Utility . If he 's looking to do development for iOS , getting the server version makes no sense . If he 's looking to do development for Web Services , it 's still easier and cheaper to run it on the Desktop version . If he 's looking to run a server , trivially , for mail services , chat and calendaring services , MORE than just web services ( web services are trivially easy on the Desktop Version ) , then he should get a MacMini Server . Use a Server for a Server for the features it provides , otherwise , use a standard version . [ edit ] We have two versions of XServes , and two Mac Mini Servers ( classic style body ) , I 'd be glad to answer any additional questions you or your friend has .
As of right now , there are no disadvantages . In fact , my fiancée and I do this right now . We share an AppleID for store purchases and set up Home Sharing so that our iPads and MacBooks can share apps , but we have separate iClouds on our machines and everything works fine .
end question
start question
Can Apple Watch activity tracking be thrown off by movement ?
Yes it can . Only exercise uses heart rate currently to gauge effort . The accelerometer for standing ca n't really tell why your hand moves when it is checking for sedentary conditions .
Even if the AppleTV functions without the HDMI connected , you will have no way to figure out what 's going on when you have problems or when the AppleTV pops up a dialog such as the " Update available , update now or later ? " dialog . I suggest you sell the AppleTV and buy an Airport Express , which is designed to do what you 're trying to accomplish . The Airport Express can be managed by any computer on the same network . Yes , you will lose a little money this way but you may find that it 's no more than you plan to spend on the converters and cables for the AppleTV .
UPDATE : The stream is officially posted in a replayable state , just like any other online video , located <URL> . It 's also the latest entry in Apple 's " Apple Keynotes " podcast , available for download on iTunes and iDevices <URL> . Since no one seems to have given the answer iProgram was hoping for , I might as well make this a proper answer in case other people have the same question . Under the circumstances , live blogs can be a tolerable substitute for watching the stream . ( Source : Experience when Apple events happened during school hours . ) I personally recommend the ones at <URL> and <URL> , but there are countless others that you can find online if you search for them . Good luck , and enjoy the keynote , however you end up experiencing it !
Once a keyboard trace has been damaged by water , it 's practically impossible to fix them . You 're better off buying a new keyboard . It 's not the best news , but once a keyboard has been damaged by liquid , there 's very little chance they will work again . For cleaning your keyboard , I 'd recommend isopropyl alcohol pads .
You have to double-press the side button on the Apple Watch to activate NFC/ApplePay . This is due to energy saving .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
Yes , as soon as you start the Remote app and tap the ' Menu ' button , the Apple TV will wake up .
They appear to be part of the workflow , which means they would be saved wherever the workflow file is saved . This varies , depending on what kind of workflow you are creating . Services are saved in ~ / Library/Services Folder Actions are saved in ~ / Library/Workflow/Applications / Folder Actions Applications and Workflows are saved wherever the user saves them .
Closing the last window of an application does n't necessarily close the application . For example , opening two TextEdit windows and then closing them both ( kbd > Cmd-W or click the red close button top-left of window ) will not close TextEdit . This allows one to click File > New ( or Cmd-N ) to open and work on a new TextEdit document . You may be familiar with how Microsoft Windows manages applications . It actually opens a new instance of Firefox , for example , for each window that you open . On the Mac , that 's not necessarily the case . People who learn to use Microsoft Windows before learning the Mac are often confused at first because the Mac uses a different conceptual model . This is how Macs have always been , more or less . Mac users get used to typing Cmd-Q if they want to completely quit an application . Often , this is not necessary . But if your machine does n't have much RAM , you may notice memory hogs like browsers slowing things down .
Sure you can . On iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 plus in landscape you have these controls . I have marked with red : <URL> But if you want in portrait mode or you have iPhone earlier than 6 , do steps : Long press on text until it appears that magnifying glass and while pressing drag cursor to the beginning of subject and it will move . This works on landscape and portrait
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
Any application can network directly or use the system settings . As @geekosaur states , Opera has its own setting , as does Firefox ( along with the option to use the system settings ) . Chrome and Safar use the system settings . It 's really up to the application developer how they implement their proxy controls ( if they even have proxying ! ) .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
Instead of selecting the artist to display the albums and songs of the artist , tap the image of the artist and the artists songs will play shuffled .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
Yes , of course you can . I myself use <URL> ( second <URL> ) to put my Macbook Pro into hibernation . And if you prefer to use the command line , read this <URL> .
I think your options are limited here . Turn off iCloud Backup altogether . Some info on how to selectively or collectively switch off iCloud is here : <URL> Back up less , e.g. by deciding not to back up your camera roll . I carefully manage what gets backed up and what not ( and also which app gets mobile internet access ) . To see which apps on your phone are taking up the most space follow these steps : Open the settings app Tap iCoud Scroll down to Storage &amp; Backup and open it Tap Manage Storage Select your iPhone If you 're on Windows 10 ( unlikely in this forum ... ) , type in the Windows 10 search box Settings and select " Settings Trusted Windows Store App " Click " System " Click " Notifications &amp; Actions " Scroll down to " Show Notifications from these apps " find " iCloud " and turn it off This works for other offending app notifications
The easiest thing to do is clean up the index file Mail uses to track the messages : Thanks for this <URL> . The linked article explains how to make an AppleScript file to measure things before and after to see if the operation thinned out the size of the file Mail uses to store the pointers to the messages . I would add , quit Mail and make a backup before trying to clean the file . A operation is normally harmless , but why not get a backup just in case . Also , this thread probably goes back to <URL> and perhaps even deeper back ...
For watchOS3 : Press and hold the Side Button Press and hold the Digital Crown For watchOS2 : When the app that you would like to terminate is open : Press and hold the Side Button and wait until the shut down screen appear . Then let go of the side button . Press and hold the Side button again until the home screen appears . Your formerly active app has now been terminated . PS : The Side Button is the button below the Digital Crown .
end question
start question
Is there are place to report missing/incorrect album art to the iTunes team ?
you can always use <URL> page to submit any kind of request . if you have this problem in our own iTunes Library , it is easy to assign a new cover to the song or album by just dragging the cover to it or using the option , you know how to do this right ? if you install Last.fm app you can simple play a song and then drag the last.fm cover into the artwork of the iTunes song .
Yes , but you do n't do it within iTunes . If you want the song files you drop into a particular folder to automatically be added to an iTunes playlist , you use Automator to create a folder action like this one : You start Automator , and create a Folder Action . You select the folder you want as the source of files . Then , the action is " Import Files into iTunes " at which point you select the playlist to which you want the songs added . Then you save the Folder Action .
It 's still there ! Between the podcast artwork and the progress bar , tap the 1x icon to change the speed . On iPhone 4S and below , tap on the artwork to bring it up .
Create the new playlist . Select all songs in the playlist and create duplicates ( here : AAC version ) of them . Rename the Album title for all tracks and set the song order via the Get Info menu entry . Burn the playlist and remove it . You are save to remove the newly created Album in the iTunes Library ( here : Testalbum ) because you created duplicates earlier .
There are plug-ins available for Apple Mail . Some are plug-ins , some are AppleScripts . You could easily accomplish this via AppleScript . For example , here 's a <URL> , although the author of those scripts notes that they have n't been updated recently and might not work with more current versions of OS X. You 'll have to try it and see . Since it 's an AppleScript , if you 're willing to get your hands dirty , you can edit it to better meet your needs . Another option is <URL> , which includes delayed send as well as several other related items .
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
I think you 'll find <URL> a good substitute for Adobe Photoshop . It will do everything on your list and it costs $ 14.99 .
It does , but it 's a little hard to find . It 's under File - > Create New Version . You still need to hold the Option key . But the difference in iTunes 11 ( and 12 ) is that you have to make sure no songs are selected when you perform the menu selection . If a song is selected iTunes will attempt to create an AAC version of the selected song . If nothing is selected you can select audio files to convert to AAC .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
I have the same machine ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . A quick web search seems to indicate that my 2.2 GHz model has an <URL> . According to <URL> , the supported memory types are actually DDR3-1066 / 1333/1600 . ( Incidentally , the memory limit is also 32 GB , but this may require more than two slots ; I 'm not sure . ) Technically , this CPU does n't have a traditional " front side bus " , which is a connection between the CPU and an external memory controller . Its memory controller is integrated with the CPU , meaning that the supported RAM configuration is n't further subject to the specifications of an external memory controller . So , it does seem like this system plausibly supports 1600 MHz RAM , after all ! I 'll be sure to keep that in mind when I upgrade to 16 GB . :) Interestingly , when I open the same dialog in " About This Mac " , my system reports that it supports 1333 MHz memory . It seems like it might just report the current memory speed .
You can do this by creating a Smart Playlist : ( I 'm using a Mac , but it will be similar for you ) Set the " Album Artwork " rule to " false " : This will update automatically as you add artwork to your albums . And you can simply delete this playlist when you 're done .
There is no limit to how many iOS devices you can sync with iTunes . The 5 computer limit is how many computers you can have authorized simultaneously with iTunes .
Have you seen the <URL> for AirPort Extreme , that should cover most of the questions . There are no virtual servers and no DMZ , but IPv6 , Port Mapping , Shared Disk/Over-the-Air - Time-Machine-Backup , Shared Printers , DHCP and NAT , some features are Mac-only , of course . Wireless 802.11 n with various transmit power options . That 's about it . As I said , no toy , but it works 100 % reliable , even for techies .
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
I do n't know about a specific app to send instant messages ( I doubt one exists ) BUT I like to rename my own shared library something akin to " if you do n't stop stealing my internet I 'll steal your credit card info " . Not that I actually know how to do that , but it usually scares them off my wireless .
While in the albums view go to the view menu and select viewing options ( command + j ) and choose sort by year . Here is a screenshot ( in german but I hope you get the important points ) .
You can use <URL> or contact Apple Support for the iTunes store to register that opinion / information about their music service .
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
The <URL> states : To report security issues that affect Apple products , please contact : product-security@apple.com ... PGP key information You can use <URL> to encrypt sensitive information sent via e-mail . The e-mail address is used to monitor for potential product security issues . Because we focus our response efforts to have the greatest impact across Apple 's product line , we generally will not respond to the e-mail messages unless further information is needed for a security issue .
end question
start question
How much will adding an extra hard drive to my MacBook Pro affect battery performance ?
Having a second hard drive will certainly decrease battery life by a noticeable amount . Behind the CPU and LCD , the hard drive is the largest drain on battery . A word of caution : RAID 0 is almost never a good idea , unless you 'll be doing backups constantly and do n't mind being totally down if a drive fails . You 'll get better performance from an SSD and you 'll be able to keep your optical drive .
If you also experience random crashes sometime it might be a good idea to run <URL> to check whether it 's actually the RAM that is causing problems . Also , boot from your installation disk and let Disk Utility verify the harddisk ( not SMART status , but the " real " verify which has its own button ) . If it finds errors , I recommend to buy DiskWarrior to repair the filesystem as in my experience DiskUtils ca n't repair anything at all .
Yes you can , here are the steps : Connect your external disk Open Finder and go to move the Aperture Library.aplibrary file to a location on your new disk Open Aperture and go to preferences ( from menu or by pressing ⌘ + , ) On the General tab , change the location of the library to where you copied the Aperture Library.aplibrary file That 's it , the library is now on your external drive .
All of the press / industry coverage is focusing on the huge usability changes ( and that mirrors the marketing that Apple is doing ) . Some notable exceptions are the new Safari which runs some benchmarks like web app and JavaScript significantly faster . The major changes under the hood speak more to security , sandboxing and plumbing the new multi-touch interface , encryption , auto save , auto revisions rather than speed . It is too soon to tell if speed is much better , but once people adapt to the changes , the idea is we will be much more efficient with the computer waiting for us less than the other way around . I would expect your experience with the hardware you mentioned to be a minor speedup in pure numbers but a major speedup as your brain becomes free from worrying about saving , window management and revisions ( assuming you adapt to the changes and like them ) I get the feeling that with mission control and full screen apps , that the UI is incredibly fluid and optimized but I 'm running on some faster macs than yours . Fun times , huh ?
With regard to your question about a realistic lifespan : I would define the life expectancy of any device as however long its user can use it for its intended purpose . Which will cease to be the case when something physically breaks or when functionality is phased out ( e.g. AirDisplay functionality is removed in a future update ) . It is impossible to predict if and when either of these things will happen to your iPad in the next few years . There are simply too many factors involved . In my own experience , we have a 1st gen iPad ( bought end of 2010 ) in the office that is on 24/7 ( no screen timeout ) as an interactive wall calendar and it is still going strong . On the other hand , one of my coworkers bought a 3rd gen iPad a few months ago and it died after a few weeks of use ( he apparently got a lemon ) . I hope you see my point : There are so many factors involved in determining the lifespan of a certain device that it is impossible to say what will happen to your iPad : Sometimes you get lucky , but there are no guarantees . With regard to your other 2 questions : As far as screen life is concerned , ' screen burn ' only occurs on the old-style ( CRT ) monitors . Also , the backlight is provided by LEDs which are supposed to have a pretty long lifespan . As far as battery life is concerned , there are some pointers at <URL> and at <URL> on how to maximize your battery lifespan . I hope this helps .
According to <URL> you only need 7G of free space . Amazingly small amount of space considering the download is 3.6 G itself . Many are reporting gaining back between 5 and 10 GB of space as Lion is more compact than Snow Leopard .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
It is possible , although not from Apple themselves . A company called OWC seem to specialise in SSD upgrades for macbook 's and have upgrades for your model <URL> These particular upgrades offer greater speed and capacity to some of the stock apple SSD 's from 2011 .
Yes , you can . Good thing you do n't care about your warranty though . <URL>
Yes - Mac do not care if the boot drive is connected internally or externally . I usually recommend installing the OS on the new drive with it connected externally since you do n't do the swap until after you know the drive boots externally , but the opposite order is fine . Now , if you have problems , it 's going to be because of hardware issue ( cable , or drive failure ) or possibly the software is n't complete / correct .
As I state above and based on my own tests , running Windows in a virtual hard drive is faster than doing it from the Boot Camp partition .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
If you enable iTunes Match , your entire library ( up to 25.000 ) songs will be synced with your iCloud . So all your songs are in the iCloud . You can add a device to the iCloud and by so , all your music on the new device will be synced onto the new device . That 's how iTunes Match works . If you computer/hard drive gets stolen , you buy a new one and authorize it with you iCloud , it will sync once again on your new device . So yes , you 'll be able to download all your music stored in your iCloud onto new device . As a matter of fact , even when the original device lost it 's files , the songs are still stored in iCloud . But be aware , the limit on devices is set on 10 . So make sure you have n't add 10 devices already ! EDIT : Proof of this is on the <URL>
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
Apple 's warranty ( AppleCare ) is specific about what components are user replaceable/serviceable . The hard drive on an older MacBook for instance is user replaceable , AppleCare used to have the option to send you a replacement hard drive along with a disposable ESD wriststrap for you to install it yourself . The difference though is the hard drive in the MacBook was almost as easy to access as the RAM in the Mac mini . The Mac mini 's hard drive is a different story . In order to access it you have to expose the logic board which increases the chance of damage from ESD if proper precautions are n't taken . Because of this the only user replaceable part in the new minis is the RAM , since the logic board is still pretty well protected when only removing the RAM . The Magnusson Moss act essentially says they ca n't deny warranty unless they can prove damage . It would n't be hard for Apple to say " The upgrade situation you described to us implies that there was a high risk for ESD damage , which has likely caused such and such issue " . The flip side though is that if an Apple Authorized Service Provider ( AASP ) installs a third party hard drive your AppleCare will remain intact because the AASP has proved to Apple that its technicians follow all safety rules and procedures when working on Macs , essentially the same reason Apple allows them to perform warranty work . Apple would then not be involved in the hard drive 's warranty ( though most HDDs have 3-5 year warranties of their own ) but the remaining components would still be recognized as " in warranty " by Apple . The most you would need to do is provide a receipt for the service you had done at an AASP . source : I was " that guy " at the Genius Bar for several years who had to turn people away from warranty coverage for unauthorized upgrades &amp; repairs . As soon as your Mac goes out of warranty I definitely encourage a DIY attitude , however I would try to heed the above advice while it 's under AppleCare .
I do n't know if it 'll work , but try going into the Energy Saver section of System Preferences and select " Put hard disk ( s ) to sleep whenever possible " . Then go into Disk Utility and unmount the hard drive . With no way to access the drive , I would assume Mac OS X would put the drive to sleep . This is a temporary solution though , and it wo n't persist across reboots ( Mac OS X automatically mounts all available drives at boot ) . If you 're really not using the drive and do n't have any data on there that you want , my suggestion would be to go into Disk Utility , repartition the drive , and for the format select " Free Space " . Once done , Mac OS X will be unable to mount the drive and should put it to sleep .
It seems you have another system - in that you are able to post the question . If it is a mac , you can start the problem system in <URL> ( if it has FireWire ) , connect it to the working system with a firewire cable and you should be able to change the name remotely . If you can start in single-user mode <URL> that may allow you to bypass the problem . If you start in verbose-mode , ( same link as above ) , you may be able to see the problem . If you can start from the Lion recovery disk , or a DVD , that will also allow you to change the drive name . Finally , if you do get the system restarted , I urge you to check it through Disk Utility ( applications > utilities ) . I hope this helps .
<URL> should suit your needs . It costs $ 19 , but has a free trial available . Paying for the app gives you : No " nag-screens " , badges or overlays All functions , including the in-app deletion , are available Free updates Priority support by e-mail One license can be used on multiple Macs So registering is n't exactly required and there is n't a time limit , but there are some features that you do n't get with the free version .
You can use the drivers CD present in the MacBook box at the time of acquisition . Following the steps you can instal an old version and then update to the last one . Otherwise there should be the possibility of start a recovery and directly download ( using a WiFi connection ) the last versione of the OS . An other option is to use Time Machine , if and only if , you have previously made a backup of the entire system before the swap of HD .
Yes . I swap out drives all the time ... it 's basically transparent on a Mac . I 've even booted my MacBook Pro 's drive on my wife 's MacBook Pro and vice versa . It takes a minute longer to boot as it reconfigures itself but once it starts you ca n't even tell the difference .
end question
start question
USB vs FW400 for iMac G4 external backup drive ?
Firewire 400 will be considerably faster than USB in this case , as FW has its own dedicated chipset , whereas USB requires CPU time and shares its bus with all other USB devices .
The basic TimeMachine recovery procedure boils down to : 1 ) boot from Recovery/Installation media 2 ) make use of the Disk Utility ( I recall under the tools menu option of the installation USB/DVDs ) to format/partition the new disk 3 ) Then select/choose the Restore/transfer option where you can then select the TimeMachine ( Or Migration Assistant ) to restore from . The problems I do n't have an answer to as I 've never done that in my setups : a ) recovery of the Recovery partition ... I usually were doing " upgrades " , thus I did fresh installs , and then I restored the TimeMachine specific files , or I used the " Migration Assistant " to restore the applications/users as need be b ) You did n't specify the version , which might mean different issues w.r.t. the medium , ie . USB/DVD/etc . Creating a USB boot image is outside the scope of this question and answer ;)
The Yosemite Installer package contains all the divers for all supported models . You are good to go for multiple uses on multiple systems .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
Your model iMac has a Serial ATA ( 6 Gb/s ) connector for a 2.5 " hard drive and a PCIe connector ( PCIe 2.0 x4 NVMexpress interface ) for the SSD . For best compatibility I suggest you purchase your SSD from a reputable retailer . For example , the following are some well-regarded sites : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> By buying from a reputable store you 'll be sure to get an SSD fit for purpose , regardless of manufacturer . Being reputable means they 're only going to sell something that works and they 'll stand behind the product they sell , regardless of the brand . Also , many sites offer an easy interface to ensure you select the right SSD for your particular Mac .
so I figured this out . First of , SD card and USB flash drive use different kernel in OS X , so the solution is not universal . Fist of , if you use USB flash drive : In your terminal type Type your password ( use an admin account ) , then What this does is that it unload and reload the USB storage kernel extension system wise , so it is an equivalent of unplug and replug your USB storage device after the ejection . Similarly , we can do that with SD card reader too ! Type : Tada ! Be careful tho , once you unload the kernel and forget to reload the kernel , you will not be able to read the device at all even if you physically unplug and plugin the device .
I have the Seagate in my 2010 15 " MBP and I have had 0 problems with it . It 's dead silent and there is no vibration . My battery life stayed pretty much the same after the upgrade , but since you are looking at dual hard drives ( I 'm assuming you removed your optical drive ) I would expect to see a slight drop in your battery life . I would stick with the 7200rpm drives over the 5400rpm myself .
Restructuring the files manually is n't a very easy or practical solution . Due to the hard links used to store the files and the data structures and metadata involved for Time Machine to track which files have changes , it would be better to live with the change . You can enter Time Machine and delete entire backups or <URL> . If you do nothing , you will have two copies of some files where you would have had one had the normal compression of files being stored in the same path are unchanged on the backup when the file does not change . Once Time Machine sees that you do n't have enough space to hold the next backup ( as it estimates each backup need before starting ) it will then do the clean up by time for you . Technically , the system has locked the backups into a special state where even root has to disable the protections to then delete files . It 's much better to use to delete entire snapshots ( or a range of them systematically ) or the normal UI to delete all backups of a folder or a file . You could also just put that drive on a shelf and start with a new one . This does add extra cost ( well a lot of cost for 6 TB of disk ) but you wo n't have to lose backup history . If the files are truly duplicated , just let Time Machine clear enough space to accommodate the next backup and you should be clear . The risk is that the deletion happens before the backup starts , and there is a short window where a bit more than 4 TB of data was deleted , and you have n't made a new backup copy of the files - they will only exist on the source and a failure during that next backup could cause you data loss .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
Given the rather tricky use of hard-linked directories , access control settings and other special filesystem features I doubt that you will find a cloud storage which supports all this . Options you may want to consider : copy the whole Time Machine drive into the cloud as an image ( requires a lot of bandwidth at least for the initial copy ) use to periodically copy your data to a remote ( cloud ) system
The iPad is a high power draw device , and Belkin N150 USB Wireless adapter probably is no power slouch either , so it is technically possible for them to be overdrawing an internal USB Bus or Hub in the Mac Pro . The Mac Pro has 5 independent USB Buses as noted in the picture below . Now depending where things are plugged in they show up in different USB Buses , you may want to Open your System Information Application , and try to avoid placing the iPad and the Belkin N150 on the same bus . For Example , on my computer the ZyXel ... and the DataTraveler are plugged into front USB ports and they appear to be sharing the same usb tree . While my external Hub labeled " Generic USB Hub " and my VF0680 , CIRCA102 are all plugged in rear usb ports on the Mac Pro , note how the CRCA102 is on its own Bus .
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
As far as I know Microsoft lock their Operating Systems so that you can not run them directly from an external storage device . Microsoft say something about it not being a ' primary means of storage . ' More like them making an attempt at stopping people running multiple computers of on copy of the OS , as allowing them to install it on any storage would allow people to make loads of copies . Hence , Linux does not have this problem . I personally do not do much gaming , and have never needed Windows on my MacBook Pro , so have not dabbled in the whole ' Windows on my Mac ' thing . If you really do have a problem with sticking Windows on the MBP 's Hard drive and booting either natively or through virtualisation , then the following links may help , although the guides are designed for XP and I have no idea if they will work on 7 . <URL> ( scroll down ) <URL> As I said , I can not guarantee this will work for 7 . I hope , however that I have helped in some way .
2 things : 1 ) They are not " made for " PCs , they may simply come pre-formatted . If they are USB , they will almost certainly work with any OS known to man that supports USB 2 ) NTFS support is read only , you can not write ( without 3rd party software ) but you can format as Fat 32 or EXFAT etc and have the drive be read/write by almost any OS including Windows/Mac/Linux etc /
It turns out the external harddrive was a lemon . I tried with a new external hard drive and it worked fine . . initial backup finished in 2 hours and time machines seems to be working fine now .
You need an app , like <URL> running continuously on a logged in Mac .
[ I 'm answering for anybody ending up here , as the original OP most probably is no more interested . I still refer to his problem description . ] I tried using Testdisk 6.13 ( latest stable release ) and it worked like a breeze for both NTFS and HFS + . I had the luxury of an empty HFS + partition , so I just removed it and recovered it using Testdisk - it was rather fast . I followed the following tutorials : <URL> <URL> If you indeed just removed one partition , it should be fast . Otherwise , it might take more time , but probably waiting is the most sensible option . But if you 're really impatient ( as I am ) and you know very well what you 're doing , you might want to read on . A ( dangerous ) tip to speedup Testdisk from my own experience If the partition entry is just removed , Testdisk will look for the start of the partition in sensible positions ( by default , at the start of every cylinder , since partitions should usually be cylinder-aligned ) , ignoring the existing partition table . Once it thinks it found a partition and you confirm its guess , it will skip searching inside the partition . If there is a lot of free space ( without a filesystem ) before the partition , this might be very slow . So I could speed up search a lot by creating a filesystem in an empty partition before the missing one , so that Testdisk would skip that space . However I knew perfectly where to create this filesystem , especially because it did not border with the lost partition . Otherwise , creating such a filesystem can easily destroy the wrong data - hence only attempt this if you know very well what you 're doing .
end question
start question
What software alternatives support streaming via AirPlay ?
To date , there are no 3rd party software implementations of AirPlay . The spec itself is fully patented ( though most of these patents relate to the hardware aspects of the system ) and is essentially a proprietary standard unique to Apple ( though several hardware vendors have announced hardware that will use the standard - XtremeMac , Denon ) . The current analysis of the protocol itself seems to indicate that it is a further evolution of the previous AirTunes protocol ( which itself was built on top of Bonjour ) , so you are likely to see software implementations appear after developers have had more time to experiment with the protocol .
<URL> is a free Finder alternative , if that type of application suites you . ( Dual-pane Norton Commander like ) .
I just came upon the site I was looking for in relation to this question . I 'm posting it in case others inquire . <URL> - b
The <URL> , specifically the <URL> , has pretty detailed information about it . Depending on several factors , I summarize the following : Resolution max . recommended high profile encoder settings , for a 16:9 aspect ratio over wifi : Dimensions : 1920 x 1080 Total bitrate : 40000 kbps Video bitrate : 39000 kbps Keyframes : 90 Framerate A frame rate of 10 fps is recommended for video streams under 200 kbps . For video streams under 300 kbps , a frame rate of 12 to 15 fps is recommended . For all other streams , a frame rate of 29.97 is recommended . There is tons of more info , but in short , the specs say : " Yes ! " you can stream a 1080p movie through Airplay . And there are several examples of " Airplay-enabled-games " , like first person shooters , that work just great . However , the crucial factor will be your wifi network as this will determine your lag/delay and - probably - most limiting factors . So there will be a significant delay on any 802.11 N based wifi network . And therefor , there will be lag with latency-sensitive audio/video interactive purposes , like games . For movies , it should be no problem though . Summarizing : The limitations of wifi transfer speeds is n't near to your perfect world when connected through a cable .
Yes , there is , using Karabiner 's command-line tool . Paste this into your : Obviously , you will need to change the name of the profile ( here it is NewItem ) . If you want to toggle between them with a single hotkey , paste it twice and change the name , then check the box for the profile you want to switch to on each one .
Yes , I would recommend to convert it to a format that iMove can import . MKV is just a container format so you probably already have an iMovie-compatible inside that package . Under Snow Leopard just install <URL> and open it in QuickTime X and then go to File - > Save as ... and choose a suitable format from the dropdown menu . If you need more control over your conversion , you could also convert it to an iMovie-compatible format using any of the video conversion tools available for the Mac . For a long time VisualHub was the king of video format conversion , unfortunately <URL> the company behind it , closed its virtual doors . There are two main open-source options derived from VisualHub , <URL> and <URL> they both should do the trick . Another option is <URL> which will also convert to and from MKV video containers to an iMovie-compatible format .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
I would really go with <URL> , I can say from experience that It will allow you to use check boxes , radio buttons etc. . You would be able to export a Google doc to an excel file and then open in numbers . If you do choose to export a Google Doc file into an excel file you could also use dropbox to open and edit it in another office based app , with that you may be able to use checks and radio buttons , as long as they already exist in the doc . A very good solution is <URL> You can also try a lot of other free office tools such as <URL>
It 's not just for AirPlay . It 's general-purpose media redirection . You can use it to switch between the built-in earpiece , the speaker on the bottom , Bluetooth earpiece , etc when on a phone call . For example , I placed a call then went over to the audio controls in the multitasking bar . It just so happens that the primary use is for AirPlay and media playback .
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
I use a program called <URL> to mirror my Windows PC to my Apple TV ( third generation ) . There is also a version that works on Macs . Note that the ability to mirror a Mac to an AppleTV is a new feature of OS X Mountain Lion .
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
Are there Mac equivalents that monitor startup , configuration and the like ? <URL> , <URL> , <URL> are some options . How necessary are they ? Not very . Any optimization that needs to be done is already built into the Mac OS X . What is the best general purpose package ? Ca n't help you there , I do n't use such utilities .
Below are some basic steps to install the Boot Camp Support Software and configure Windows Update before updates are downloaded from Microsoft . Windows Update can only be configured if you are installing Windows 10 Pro or better . I do not know of a way to configure Windows Update for Windows 10 Home . The steps given below can still be used to install the Boot Camp Support Software . Hint : For a better view , click on an image or open an image in a new window . Before installing Windows 10 , make sure your computer can not communicate with the internet . If the computer is hardwired to the internet , disconnect it now . Start installing Windows 10 . You may be asked to connect to the internet via Wi-Fi . If a window similar to below appears , click on " Skip this step " . <URL> When you reach the following screen , put the computer in Audit mode by pressing the following keys . With the ctrlshift keys held down , press the F3 key . Hold all three keys down for about 3 seconds or until the computer starts to reboot . <URL> If you see the screen below , do nothing . The computer will login automatically to the Administrator account . <URL> Eventually , you should get the following screen showing the Administrator 's desktop . You can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . <URL> Check the clock and make any needed corrections . Right click on the clock shown on the task bar at the bottom right of the screen and select " Adjust date/time " . See image shown below . <URL> Install the Boot Camp Support Software ( BCSS ) by opening the setup Application in the appropriate BCSS folder . If you get a Windows version error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 9 . <URL> If you get a Boot Camp x64 error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 10 . Otherwise , goto step 11 . <URL> You can remedy the situation by right clicking on the highlighted setup application entry and selecting " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box and select the appropriate previous version of Windows . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button and a open the setup application to install the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . Proceed to step 11 . You can remedy the situation by using the Finder application to navigate to the Windows Installer Package named " BootCamp64 " or similar file . Right click on the file entry and select " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button . Right click on the file entry and select " Install " , as shown below . This starts the installation of the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . <URL> If you do not want to configure Windows Update or have Windows 10 Home , you should skip this step . To proceed , right click on the Start button on the taskbar and select " Run " , as shown below . <URL> In the popup windows , enter " gpedit.msc " and click the Ok button , as shown below . <URL> Select " Local Computer Policy → Computer Configuration → Administrative Templates → Windows Components → Windows Update " , as shown below . <URL> Next , right click on " Configure Automatic Updates " and select " Edit " . The " Configure Automatic Updates " windows should appear as shown below . <URL> If you want to " Never check for updates " click the " Disabled " button , otherwise click the " Enabled " button and choose your option . The result from choosing option 2 is shown below . <URL> When finished , click the " OK " button to close the window . Also , close the " Local Group Policy Editor " window . Next , Click on the Start button on the task bar and select " Settings → Update &amp; security → Windows Update → Check for updates " . When the following message occurs , click " Advanced options " . <URL> Inspect the window to confirm you selection . Below is the correct window for option 2 . <URL> Close the " Settings " window . Connect your computer to the internet . If you computer was hardwired to the internet , plug it back in now . If you were using Wi-Fi , enable it and join a network . If the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window is not displayed , reboot the computer . Click the " OK " button in the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . Use the default settings shown in the image below . <URL> When the computer reboots , you will have left the Audit mode . You should boot to the following display . <URL> On my computer , I was able to select the " United States ( Apple ) " keyboard . You may want to check if a better choice exists than the default keyboard . At this point , you can continue with the Windows 10 installation . Additional Notes : There is a downloadable <URL> from Microsoft , that will allow you to review and/or hide updates before downl
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
You may have found something by now ( if so please share ) , but I just discovered Prismatic , which is similar to Zite , but on the web , and mobile . <URL> . <URL>
One place to look might be at <URL> . Update : iUsers for iPad now makes this possible . Check out the <URL> .
With the new OSX Mountain Lion you will be able to airplay from the Mac to an Apple TV . <URL>
Network issues only ever result in the audio cutting out , they ca n't really change the content . Distortion means your speakers get overloaded . Turning down the volume is your only option . The reason your speakers are fine on the Mac is that after the slider in iTunes the sound gets further attenuated by the system volume buttons on your keyboard . If you turn those up far enough you 'll get distortion as well .
Yes , it will work as long as both the MacBook Air and the Denon receiver are on the same network segment . Your Air will need either the USB or Thunderbolt adapter to connect to ethernet ( the latter provides Gigabit speed as well as supports jumbo packets ) directly . You can have many iOS devices and the Air also connect over a wireless bridge and they will see the receiver that is connected via ethernet to the main network switch .
end question
start question
New Numbers has no Auto-Complete ?
Not right now , but the feature is coming back in a future release within the next six months . Apple has documented the missing features in iWork '13 in a new KB titled <URL> , where auto-complete for Numbers is listed as one of the features that will be re-introduced . The new iWork applications -- Pages , Numbers , and Keynote -- were released for Mac on October 22nd . These applications were rewritten from the ground up to be fully 64-bit and to support a unified file format between OS X and iOS 7 versions , as well as iWork for iCloud beta . These apps feature an all-new design with an intelligent format panel and many new features such as easy ways to share documents , Apple-designed styles for objects , interactive charts , new templates , and new animations in Keynote . In rewriting these applications , some features from iWork ’09 were not available for the initial release . We plan to reintroduce some of these features in the next few releases and will continue to add brand new features on an ongoing basis . Some features in upcoming releases in the next 6 months Numbers Customize toolbar Improvements to zoom and window placement Multi-column and range sort Auto-complete text in cells Page headers and footers Improvements to AppleScript support Last Modified : Nov 6 , 2013
If you were running Windows 7 before the reinstall , look for the following folders : \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows Vista before the reinstall , you should look for : \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications If you were running Windows XP before reinstalling , look for : \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ Mobile Applications \ Documents and Settings \ username \ My Documents \ My Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Music \ Mobile Applications These are the default locations for your apps . If you had changed the location of your iTunes folder in your iTunes preferences , you could search your backup copy for a folder called " Mobile Applications " or for the app 's name .
There is a small print at the bottom of the download info page for the GarageBand ver 10.1 . - Requires Apple Music Connect Account Do you have one ? But here is the good news . I do not have the Apple Music Connect and was able to get the GarageBand 10.1 update . I have a MBA 2012 with Mavericks ( 10.9.5 ) and here is the process I had to do . need to accept this then continue with download You will be asked to log in again to complete the download/installation . And it is ready to go :
You did n't mention which version of Numbers you were using . Here are general directions to create a custom cell format in both <URL> and <URL> . In Numbers ' 09 , once in the Custom Number Format dialog , drag a few integer elements into the format box . Pull the menu down for each , and choose Hide separator . On the appropriate groups , change the number of digits to two . If you 're not mixing with USD and prefer India 's conventions , a much simpler approach is in the <URL> . Choose India from the Region menu , and any cells set to Currency format will not only have the correct symbol , but the correct groupings . Of course , then if you want USD formatted correctly , you 'd need a custom format for that - so use whichever region is most appropriate to the bulk of your content .
Your dates might not be recognized as dates by Numbers . In my case , Numbers does not offer dd/mm/yyyy as one of the standard date format and I have to define a custom format for that pattern . ( Not sure , if that applies in your case : The date must be entered according to your locale settings - I can set " dd/mm/yyyy " as the date format , but I have to enter it as " dd.mm.yyyy " on my German system . ) Using the sort &amp; filter window then works well on the formatted dates .
You 're seeing some first indications of <URL> because you 're using your hand in ways you 're not used to , and possibly because the mouse does n't fit your hand . Switching to a normal mouse is a good first aid , especially since you noticed that the problem disappeared or became less of a problem . For some people , it just takes time to get used to new movements , while others wo n't be able to use the new device for longer periods of time . Those unlucky people should not force themselves to use devices that are n't comfortable for them , and this might include you . The problem with the magic mouse , IMHO , is that it 's too small to really be useful as a gesture device because you 're gesturing with the same hand that you use to hold it . That 's bound to be awkward , which stresses your hand 's anatomy , and some people develop problems from that . Others might not notice any problems -- everybody is different . Solution : Change to a different mouse . If you must use gesture input , use a separate device for that . Apple offers the magic touchpad , which is a simpler and smaller version of the original <URL> series of devices which you can still buy used on eBay . And their laptops have multitouch trackpads too .
You could save a script like this as a stay open application in AppleScript Editor : You can open it at login by adding it to login items . waits one second before running the idle handler again . terminates the process . Closing windows with System Events : I use this function to connect to a 3G network : opens the application on the background . Without the shell shows a message like after the background job finishes . is like but it does n't show an error message if it does n't match any processes .
You can check the version of Messenger installed by going here : > > > > Version will be displayed next to app icon . And you can check the latest version of Messenger in the App Store by going to its page and check the version . If they are the same , you are good to go . If not , I suggest closing App Store , restarting your iPhone and then checking App Store . It will probably says and you can do so .
I charge my iPhone 4S overnight each night , but I could probably get through multiple days if I was careful . Currently , I 'm not careful about battery life . I listen to podcasts on the train to work , make calls , surf the Internet on 3G and WiFi , and listen to streaming radio on WiFi pretty much all day at work . With all that , I get ~ 16 hours of battery life , which is much better than either my old 4th gen iPod touch or my Palm Prē . Batteries can vary by model ; the people who wrote the articles you mention probably just got crappy batteries . They should take their iPhones in to an Apple Store and Apple 'll probably replace them , as the batteries are clearly defective .
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
Not sure if this is a complete list , but this is a pretty good start from Apple : <URL> Here is another link to an image of the shortcuts : <URL>
You can re-download Lion even though it has already been installed by holding down the option key before clicking Purchased . Do not release the key until after the option to Install appears alongside OS X Lion . The workaround may be more reliable if something other than Purchased is in foreground before alt/option-clicking Purchased . Burn the installer to disc , then delete it when you 're done with it .
I wrote an <URL> that could solve a few of the issues for you . That was mostly for a one off time though versus ongoing . If you have an ongoing job , like one that you would have scheduled through iCal , will work nicely as well . But if you want an outright replacement to something similar to what you did with iCal/Calendar , it sounds like <URL> ' . One user even said that this new way is even easier to use . I personally think with the extra power of Automator , it also adds new power . From that site : Here 's a solution that works for me : In Automator , create a Calendar Alarm Select Utilities from the library pane Select &amp; drag Run AppleScript into the workflow area Copy/paste the AppleScript into the Run AppleScript box Save the newly created Calendar Alarm Open Calendar.app , create a new event Select the Automator calendar as your reference calendar Select Open File for the alert , and select the file you created in Automator . By default , iCal is the file that comes up when you select Open File . Change that to the name of the Automator app you created . Select Other if the file name is n't shown . The user attached some screenshots to their post , as well , but I have included a screenshot of what needs to be selected in Automator .
Safari uses Webkit as it 's rendering engine . If you 're specifically looking for when it began to support HTML5/CSS3 , it as a fully open-source repository where you can review changes commit by commit . As such , you can see the full comprehensive , intricately detailed history here : <URL>
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
No , you do n't need a backup any more . iTunes Match stores nothing in the Cloud , it activates your songs in the iTunes Store , and only the songs iTunes does n't have are uploaded to the Apple Server . But if your HDD suffers damage , you have to download all your 50 GB again .
Microsoft Internet Explorer for Mac is not available for the latest OS X versions ( beyond OS X 10.4 ) as it was effectively replaced by Safari in 2003 . As the Wikipedia page for <URL> explains : As a result of the five-year agreement between Apple and Microsoft in 1997 , it was the default browser on Mac OS and Mac OS X from 1998 until it was replaced by Apple 's own Safari web browser in 2003 . On June 13 , 2003 , Microsoft announced that it was ceasing further development of Internet Explorer for Mac and the final update was released on July 11 , 2003 . The browser was not included in the default installation of Mac OS X v10 .4 " Tiger " which was released on April 29 , 2005 . Microsoft discontinued support for the product on December 31 , 2005 and removed the application from their Macintosh downloads site on January 31 , 2006 . Microsoft recommends " that users migrate to more recent web browsing technologies such as Apple 's Safari . " Your best bet is to download the <URL> and run it in a Virtual Machine ( using something like <URL> or <URL> ) . Alternatively , the OSXDaily article on <URL> describes a way to do this ( I 've not used it myself , but this does appear to circumvent the Windows 30-day trial period by using snapshots and possibly to comply with the EULA you should purchase a Windows licence and use that in a VM with a downloaded version of IE , as above , instead ) : We 're going to walk you through how to install Internet Explorer 7 , 8 , or 9 in a virtual machine running Windows , directly in Mac OS X -- for free . This is achieved by using the freely available VirtualBox software from Oracle , and combining that with free Internet Explorer testing virtual machines from Microsoft , the trick is converting these free IE vm 's so that they work flawlessly under OS X ( or Linux , technically ) , and that is all handled automatically with this method .
In general yes - but there are some functions that are only in Excel . Googling found <URL> for OSX Numbers
As far as I am aware there is no reference to wildcard characters in vcard . If Mac OS or iOS supported such feature it would not be supported by other devices . But you can add the 100 phone numbers by hand . I would recommend exporting the contact as a vcd file then add all the numbers by hand . Copy paste will be faster than writing them one by one in the Contacts app : And import it back .
I found it ! If you select the " big event " in " Events " view , then go to the menu , " Events " - > " Autosplit Selected Events " it will automagically split the one event into the many events .
end question
start question
Any idea what happened to / Library/Receipts in Mac OS X Lion ?
first , on unix is the location for stuff like that . second , it 's much easier to type as it is in lower case . so , not so unreasonable decision by apple 's engineers .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
So far the only risk I 've found is that some applications will overwrite the custom extended attributes . TextEdit is one such example . It will remove the attribute and add a quarantined attribute in its place , which will cause the Finder to give you a warning ( that it was downloaded from the internet ) when you open it . So if you do n't want to lose the metadata you 've added to your custom attributes , do n't open in unsafe applications like TextEdit . TextMate and SublimeText 2 and do n't damage your data , however . ( And as for name collisions , just follow the reverse DNS naming that Java uses . For example ' com.yourdomain.yourcustomname ' . )
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
It 's the " Inactivity Sound , " called " Bass , " that <URL> plays by default when you have n't been using it for a few hours . And I thought my computer was overheating ! I ca n't understand why anyone would make a web app that non-obviously plays a repeating , scary sound on repeat hours after the user last interacted with it . Terrible . Anyway , that 's one mystery solved . <URL>
This OSXDaily article <URL> describes a method of doing this . You may have noticed that when you log out or reboot Mac OS X Lion , you get a dialog window with a checkbox next to " Reopen windows when logging back in " that restores all of your currently open applications and windows . If you do n't like it and you 're tired of unchecking the box to no longer reopen the windows , you can use a third party script to render the feature useless . To clarify , what this does is disable the feature completely on a constant basis , regardless of whether that checkbox to preserve windows is checked or not , the windows will not restore . Type the following command to download the script , place it in the appropriate location , make it executable , run it , then remove it : The content of the script is for those who want to know what 's being executed and/or do it manually is : Finally , if you want to go back to normal resume behaviour type :
No , iMovie is part of the iLife suite of programs , not the OS itself . It 's only included bundled with the OS when you buy a new Mac .
You can go to in the system preferences and select for your printer . In there , you should see an option for ( if your printer supports it ) . If that is checked , you can use the automatic double-side printing ( by checking the box next to ) . If not , or if that option is unavailable , you ca n't . In case you ca n't select that option , here 's how you can manually print double-sided pages . Manual double-side printing You can control manual double-side printing ( i.e. , you physically turn the sheets over ) using the setting in the print dialog . If you select , you 'll find a option that lets you print either only the odd pages or only the even pages ( default is both ) . To print double side manually , select first and when it finishes printing , flip the pages over and select Instead of flipping each page over to its blank side before printing the even pages , you have a more convenient option of flipping the entire block of pages , so that the last sheet is on top ( useful when you have a lot of pages to be printed ) . With this , you can then choose in to print the even numbered pages backwards . ( Note : be careful that if you have an odd-number of pages in total , you might have to leave the last one out before printing the even ones . )
I did it . ( Apple Developer ) . I have a second computer that I use for all beta testing , running OS X 10.6 . I used the app store on that computer to download the Lion Beta Installer . It downloads and installs just like any other app . You then run the Lion Beta Installer app and it reboots and installs Lion as if it came off a CD . After another reboot , you are running Lion , with all your apps and settings working just fine . Hope this does not defy the NDA .
Correct . Shark was replaced with Instruments . There is a set of tools from Apple called CHUD that does still include Shark . It 's available <URL> . It does require you to have a Developer Account to download . However there has been limited success in getting it to work on Lion . It 's safe to assume that Shark has bitten the dust .
The typical place for this kind of information is one of ( for OS specific stuff ) ( for system-wide preferences/settings valid for all users ) ( for user-specific preferences/settings ) and the folders beneath them ( e.g. and ) . They are saved as individual files , usually named so you can identify them and with a structure which is ( at least most of the time ) understandable by mere humans . Most of these files are Property List files ending in which can be pretty-printed into a human-readable form by running in Terminal .
The optical output ( Mini TosLink ) does support multi-channel sound , up to I think 7:1 - but the standard 2.5 mm does n't . iffi9211 Re : surround sound Jan 30 , 2012 2:49 PM ( in response to parker612 ) I was able to fix this problem , my speakers are connected to my pioneer receiver and I used it to create surround sound . iMac has toslink output which is connected to my receiver . iMac however gives only 2 channels and does n't have option for surround sound on every track . It will not create surround sound from mp3 songs like some sound cards can . However if I play dvd that has surround sound then iMac will output 5 channels . Thanks for the reply . Edit : second post down <URL> explains it .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
It gets 120 + ° F here during the summer sometimes , which is approximately 50 ° C . In the shade it 'll be approx . 10-20 ° cooler , and indoors approx . 78 ° F with A/C . The A/C does n't run full time , so if you were to turn off your A/C while recording then turn it back on periodically , you should be able to maintain a reasonable interior temperature , both for you and the computer without it impacting your recording . Plus , if you have good headphones , the only times you 'd need to turn off the A/C is while using a microphone to record voices or acoustic instruments . Electric guitars and basses , amps , keyboards and synths should be going direct or be loud enough that ambient noise from the A/C should n't be a problem .
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
Reboot your Mac . When you hear the boot chime , hold the COMMAND + R keys . You will enter the Lion Recovery environment . From there , simply choose to reinstall Lion . It will simply remove the current system and replace it with a fresh copy . None of your data will be deleted or moved . The only thing that will be replaced will be the core system files . There is no longer any need to make backups , migrate your data , or mess with partitioning . If you 'd like to read more about the Lion Recovery function , go here : <URL>
This kind of thing is a RAM problem 9 times out of 10 . Your RAM is constantly being paged in and out to your ( relatively slow ) hard drive , causing you to wait . THe best solution is to upgrade your RAM or if it 's already maxed , consider getting an SSD .
end question
start question
How do I prevent my Mac from switching Wifi connections when at home ?
Looks like the computer is set to prefer or prioritise the xfiniti Wifi hotspot over you home wifi , you can set your home Wifi to be of priority to any other Wifi connection and this is how to do that , System Preferences/Network / then select Wifi and click on Advanced , you 'll see all preferred networks there . Click and drag your home Wifi to the top .
In System Prefereces > Network set Ethernet above Wifi . That should do the trick .
Go into the keyboard settings and add a shortcut for the corrected spelling of the word . I had to do this with my daughter 's name , as every time I spelled it , it would come out in capitals . You can just use a part of the word and it can auto spell the word for you , or you can spell it with a different capitalization and save the corrected version the other way . If you need to use the first part of the word it may not work . Do n't really know , but it worked for me ;-)
Upgrade to iOS 4.2 . It fixes both the charging brightness and the locked screen brightness bugs . I just tried it and it works .
Try this <URL> or Rename eject.menu in / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu Extras / to something else " eject.menu.bak " restart mac and then rename the file back to original . Not sure if it works but trying doesnt hurt anyone .
Safari ( for iPod and iPad ) keeps website cache only in RAM , and therefore , once it runs out of RAM , it 'll automatically destroy an entire page , forcing the refresh , disguising itself as an auto-refresh feature . You can only keep few pages respective to amount of your device RAM . You can try a third-party browser that has offline caching , and it 'll remedy the situation . like : <URL> <URL> <URL> or if you Limit the number of tabs open in Safari to 2 or 3 . It wo n't refresh .
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
From <URL> : You can use the Connect To Server command to connect to an FTP server in the Finder , but you will have read-only access . You can not copy , or upload , to an FTP volume in the Finder .
I can not find a direct source to note when Apple started making audio output ports toslink enabled . But to answer your other questions : Almost all macs since 2006 do support this , and looking at the product page for each model will tell you exactly . If it supports toslink , it supports surround sound <URL> .
When the phone is asleep ( also known as hibernation mode ) , the WiFi radio is shut off after a time to conserve battery power . Anything that occurs on the phone , such as receiving notifications , background app updates , et cetera , uses the cellular network instead of WiFi . The one notable exception would be iCloud backup , for which the phone wakes the WiFi radio .
Though Quicktime does not ( and I could n't find a codec plugin to support it ) , <URL> apparently plays AVCHD video files ( . mts ) . There is also a way to use VLC to <URL> .
You can use <URL> . This solution has an iPhone and Mac ( or Windows ) client and sends a push notification from the Mac app to the iPhone with the information for a call , text , URL , text or an image . The iPhone app then opens the data sent to it by the Mac app . The iPhone app <URL> and the Mac app is free . myPhoneDesktop requires an account to be set up , but it is free .
I found a solution . The following sets the delay to 1 minute . source : <URL>
You can stop Mac OS X unmounting user disks on log-out . This behaviour is controlled with a default ( preference ) . In <URL> , <URL> shares the appropriate command to issue : This command needs to be entered into Applications > Utilities > Terminal.app . Aftwards you must restart your Mac for the change to take effect . Note that the tool has been replaced by ; it is possible Mac OS X 10.8 has migrated this default to another file . You may also find this Super User question useful , <URL> .
Uncheck the , " Open " safe " files after downloading " checkbox in Safari 's General preferences .
iOS devices can not relay WiFi signals to other devices ( at least not without a jailbreak ) . To share a single WiFi login with several devices you need to set up a WiFi repeater . Airport Express is one device which can do that , <URL> is another one which I have successfully used for this purpose .
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
You are probably dealing with an AutoRecover issue . The Office programs will try to reopen documents that are open when the programs crash ( a Force Quit is essentially a crash to the programs ) . <URL> explains what 's going on and how to recover from the problem . To quote the relevant part : AutoRecover saves files in the folder . These files are hidden , and their file names starts with . You can see hidden files if you navigate to the folder above in Finder , type ⌘ F , and choose FIle Invisible from the Kind dropdown - if that 's not an option , choose Other ... , and check the File Invisible checkbox - and set it to Invisible . Try making the hidden files visible , then moving them to the Desktop , then start Excel . Of course , if you 're using Office 2004 or Office 2011 , they will have their own AutoRecovery folders .
You can right-click the selected text and choose " Copy " from the menu that pops up . If you need to copy only a single word , you can just right-click the word without selecting it first , which works in both foreground and background apps .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
end question
